

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1326
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1324
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"193 – 2020 iema;eïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'09'11
No. 2,193  –  fRiday , sEPtEmbER 11, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd october, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th september, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1321 - b 82055- 5,403 (09/2020)
Note .-   (i)  twentieth amendment to the constitution bill was published as a supplement to the  Part ii of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist  
Republic of Sri Lanka of august 28, 2020.
 (ii)  Ports and airports development Levy (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the  Part ii of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka of september 04, 2020.
 (iii)  Nation building tax (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the  Part ii of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist  Republic of 
Sri Lanka of september 04, 2020.
 (iv)  Economic service charge (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the  Part ii of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist  
Republic of Sri Lanka of september 04, 2020.
 (v)  finance (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the  Part ii of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka 
of september 04, 2020.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1322
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1323
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1324
Posts – vacant
SECONDmENT Of GOvERNmENT mEDICAL 
OffICER TO SRI LANkA POLICE 
Reserve Senior Superintendent of Police to the 
Post of Chief Medical Officer
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the Medical Officers 
presently in Government Service to fill the above mentioned 
vacancy for the Post Chief Medical Officer in the Police 
medical services division.
02. Eligible candidates should prepare their applications,
on papers 11"x8" in size, in accordance with the specimen 
form given below, and duly perfected applications should 
be sent by registered post through 
secretary to the ministry 
together with certified copies of the relevant certificates 
to reach the address "
director Recruitment, No. 375, sri 
sambuddathwa Jayanthi mawatha, colombo - 06 on or 
before 09.10.2020. applications received thereafter will be 
rejected. "Post of Reserve senior superintendent of Police 
(Chief Medical Officer) - Sri Lanka Police" should be 
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Under 
no circumstances should the applications be handed over 
personally to any officer.
03. Qualification :
(i) age should be not below the 40 years and not
over the 50 years
(ii) Educational and Professional Qualifications
(a)  Having obtained mbbs (sL) or mbbs or
any equivalent medical degree conferred
by any university recognized by the sri
Lanka medical council together with
permanent and fully renewed registration
by the 
sri Lanka medical council.
(b)  Should be a class one medical officer
with a Post Graduate diploma. Preference
will be given to those who have obtained
msc. degree relevant to the medical
administration.
(iii)  service Experiences :
 should have gained the experience not less
than 03 in the field of administration at the
base hospital or any higher institution, holding
position of overall in charge.
04. Salary and other allowances and benefits :
(a)
the selected applicants will be entitled to draw
the salary and due increments with all allowances
paid to their respective grades by the 
department
of Health services and it will be reimbursed by 
sri Lanka Police. in addition, he or she will be 
entitled to some of the privileges due to the active 
service officers of the Police Reserve.
(b)
Entitled to get an official vehicle with a driver
depending on the exigencies of service.
(c) Entitled for the Government family Quarters
within the hospital premises.
05. the applicants should attach copies of the following
documents to the applications prepared in accordance with 
the specimen. (
originals should not be attached).
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Certificates confirming the Educational Qualifications,
(iii) Certificates regarding Additional Professional
Qualifications,
(iv) Certificates regarding Special Professional
Experience,
(v) Service Certificates.
06. the applicants should face an interview.
07. selected applicants should pass a background
investigation prior to appointment and should have a 
physical fitness required for police service. Those who are 
found unsuitable will be rejected.
08. Terms of 
employment :
(a) the selected applicants will be enlisted nominally
in active service as Reserve senior superintendent 
of Police / Reserve Women senior superintendent
of Police, in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the sri Lanka Reserve Police.
(b) the selected applicants will continue to maintain
his or her service seniority and increments in the
department of Health services.
09. Service Conditions.– conditions outside the General
conditions laid down in the Public service commission 
Procedural Rules.
(a) the selected applicants will be required to act in
accordance with the current circulars and orders
already made or may hereafter be made to give
effect to the Official Language Policy.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1325
(b) Selected applicants should subscribe affirmation/
oath to the effect that they comply with Police 
code of conduct as per the constitution of 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and 
together with inspector General of Police circular 
No. 1693/2003 and 1804/2004.
(c) all the applicants are liable to provisions of 
Establishment code mentioned in V ol. i and ii and 
other circulars and conditions, orders of Police 
service, iGP circulars, Public administration 
circulars and financial Regulations and provisions 
thereof.
Note:- all applications, which do not conform to 
the requirements stipulated in this notification, 
will be rejected and such applicants will not be 
notified. Travelling expenses will not be paid to 
applicants who are called to appear for tests and 
interviews in respect of the above.
 c. d. 
Wickramaratne, 
 Acting inspector General of Police.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
Post of sri Lanka PoLice HosPitaL cHief medicaL officer
01. applicant's name (with initials) :––––––––––––.
  (i)  Name denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
02.  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
 mailing address :––––––––––––.
 t elephone Number :––––––––––––.
  Email address :––––––––––––.
 Relevant Police station of the Permanent address :                 
––––––––––––.
03. Gender (male/female) :––––––––––––. 
04. date of birth: :––––––––––––.
 age as at 09.10.2020 :––––––––––––.
 y ears :––––––––.months :––––––––. days :––––––––.
05. marital status - married/Unmarried/Widowed :
  (i) spouse's occupation :––––––––––––. 
  (ii) spouse's Place of occupation :––––––––––––.
06. Present Employment :-
  (i) Post held at present :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Grade of the present post :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Present working place :––––––––––––.
07. date of appointments:-
  (i) date of appointed of the present post :–––––––––.
  (ii) date of 1st appointment :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications (Details with Dates):-
  (i) Educational :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Additional Qualification :––––––––––––.
09. Post held:- 
  Post  Working Place  Period of Service
  (i) .................. ..................... .....................
  (ii) .................. ..................... .....................
  (iii) .................. ..................... .....................
  (iv) .................. ..................... .....................
  (v) .................. ..................... .....................
10. Any other qualifications related to the post :–––––––––.
i certify that the particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and accurate. i am also aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect, my service in the Police service in the event of 
my being appointed is liable to be terminated without any 
compensation.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Secretary to the Ministry :-
1, hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ................................
forwarding this applications is serving in the department of 
............................. and that he/she can be released for the 
new post if he/she is selected for this post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature and stamp of the
 secretary to the ministry. 
date :––––––––––––.
09–470

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1326
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of LAND
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to tHE Posts of aPPRENticE 
sURVEyoRs iN tHE sURVEy dEPaRtmENt of 
sRi LaNKa - 2020
oPEN competitive examination for recruitment to the posts 
of apprentice surveyors in the survey department will be 
held in colombo in december 2020 by the commissioner 
General of Examination. date and the venue of the 
Examination will be informed in due course.
applications are invited from the candidates who 
completed the prescribed qualifications as follows to recruit 
for 31 posts of apprentice surveyor in survey department, 
outside the Sri Lanka Survey Service, so as to be able to fill 
vacancies remain in the grade 
iii of sri Lanka surveyors’ 
Service. ( Appointing authority has power not to fill all or 
certain number of vacancies)
01 surveying science graduates 28 posts
02 other graduates 03 posts
01. Qualifications :
1.1 educational Qualifications :
(a) s hould have obtained from a University /
institute recognized by the University
Grant commission
(i)  a bsc degree in surveying science
or
(ii)  a bsc special degree (mathematics
or Physics or computer/information
technology science as a main
subject)
or
(iii)  a bsc degree in Engineering
science
or
(iv)  a computer/information technology
science degree with a class
or
(v)  General bsc degree with
mathematics or Physics subjects
with a class
  and
(b) s hould have passed mathematics and
Physics subjects for G. c.E. advanced
Level
Note: No one who is in pending results of a 
degree examination is allowed to apply to this 
examination. However, when someone who 
graduated from a recognized university submits 
an official letter obtained from the registrar of 
said university confirming that he/she has passed 
the degree examination, with the application, 
permission is granted to sit for this examination.
1.2
 Professional Qualifications and experience : Not 
applicable
1.3 Physical Qualifications :
Every candidate should be a person who is 
physically 
fit in every respect to serve in any 
part of sri Lanka with three dimensional sight 
void of color blindness.
1.4 Other Qualifications :
(i) s hould be a citizen of sri Lanka
(ii) s hould be of excellent moral character.
(iii) Persons ordained in any religious order
will not be recruited to this post and they
cannot apply for this post. Likewise, they
are not in any way permitted to sit for the
recruitment examination.
(iv) The fact that the qualifications required
to sit for the competitive examination
for appointment to the 
service have
been fulfilled will be accepted only
if the qualifications prescribed in this
appendix have been completed as at date 
stated in the Gazette Notification as the
date on which the qualifications should
be completed. Copies of the certificates
should be submitted with the application
in support of the qualifications.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1327
(v) General bsc degree with 
mathematics or Physics subjects 
with a class
and
(b) should have passed mathematics and 
Physics subjects for G.c.E. advanced 
Level
Note: No one who is in pending results of a 
degree examination is allowed to apply to this 
examination. However, when someone who 
graduated from a recognized university submits 
an official letter obtained from the registrar of 
said university confirming that he/she has passed 
the degree examination, with the application, 
permission is granted to sit for this examination.
1.2
Professional Qualifications and experience : Not 
applicable
1.3 Physical Qualifications :
Every candidate should be a person who is 
physically 
fit in every respect to serve in any
part of sri Lanka with three dimensional sight 
void of color blindness.
1.4
Other Qualifications :
(i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka
(ii) should be of excellent moral character.
(iii) Persons ordained in any religious order 
will not be recruited to this post and they 
cannot apply for this post. Likewise, they 
are not in any way permitted to sit for the 
recruitment examination. 
(iv) The fact that the qualifications required 
to sit for the competitive examination 
for appointment to the service have 
been fulfilled will be accepted only 
if the qualifications prescribed in this 
appendix have been completed as at date 
stated in the Gazette Notification as the 
date on which the qualifications should 
be completed. Copies of the certificates 
should be submitted with the application 
in support of the qualifications.
1.5 Age :
1.5.1 m inimum age limit : 22 years
1.5.2 m aximum age limit: 28 years
(accordingly, only those who were bom 
on or before 12.10.1998 and on or after 
12.10.1992 will be eligible to apply).
02. Method of recruitment.– Recruitments will be made
by a written competitive examination conducted only by 
the 
commissioner General of Examination. the candidates 
who have passed all the subjects and secured a minimum 
of 40% marks for each question paper, will be recruited 
to the post of 
apprentice surveyor outside the sri Lanka 
surveyors’ service in order of merit of marks, subsequent to 
an interview conducted by the surveyor General to ascertain 
the qualifications and general physical fitness.
(a)  details of the open competitive examination for
recruitment to the post of apprentice surveyor of
the department of survey outside the sri Lanka 
surveyors’ service.
the open competitive examination held for the 
post of apprentice surveyor of the department 
of survey of sri Lanka is conducted in sinhala, 
tamil and English language and candidates 
are allowed to sit only in one language and the 
medium applied for will not be allowed to change 
subsequently. 
this examination is consisted 
of question papers related to three subjects as 
follows and every candidate should appear for all 
three subjects.
Name of the question 
paper Time Maximum 
marks
Passed 
marks
1. comprehension 2 hours 100 40
2. intelligence test 2 hours 100 40
3. General Knowledge 2 hours 100 40
Comprehension : a number of short texts are given to 
the candidate by these question papers for a period of two 
hours (02). 
certain texts are given to express in one sentence. 
Questions for which comments should be provided to the 
underlined words are also given. 
a number of alternative 
statements are given to the candidates in respect of certain 
other text and one of them is most suitable for the contents 
included in this text. 
candidates should select the most 
appropriate statement from it. several questions will 
be given to the candidate in regard to certain other texts. 
correct answers for them are expected. these questions are 
prepared to test the manner in which the candidate grasps 
the meaning of such texts. 
in addition to this, a long text will 
be given for summary writing.
Intelligence Test : this paper which is limited to two 
(02) hours, has been prepared to assess the logical state of
thinking of the candidate, analytical competence of his mind
and his decision making power. 
this question paper will
consist of questions fitting into multiple choice methods.
General knowledge : this is a general question paper 
which is confined to two (02) hours to test the knowledge 
of the entire gamut including political, social, cultural 
and economic and environmental state of 
sri Lanka and 
the technological and technical developments as well as 
nationally and internationally important contemporary 
matters. 
selection of questions of their choice out of several 
questions is permitted.
Note :
(a) m arks will be deducted for illegible handwriting
and spelling mistakes, of the candidates who
sit this examination. 
candidates who have 
illegible handwritings may be disqualified in the 
examination.
(b)
 o n the presumption of that only the candidate who
have qualifications specified in gazette notification,
have applied, admission card will be issued by 
the 
commissioner General of Examination to the 
candidates within the age limit mentioned in the 
notice, who have sent duly completed applications 
together with receipt obtained, paying the 
prescribed examination fee on or before the closing 
date of application. 
a newspaper advertisement will 
be published by the department of Examination sri 
Lanka as soon as the admission cards have been 
issued, 
candidates who do not receive admission 
cards even after the newspaper advertisement 
has been published, should inquire without delay 
from the 
organization ( institutional and foreign 
Examination) branch of the department of the 
Examination sri Lanka as mentioned in the notice. 
the name of the examination applied, full name 
of the applicant, National identity card number 
and address should be mentioned correctly when 
an inquiry is made. 
if the applicant is a resident of 
outside colombo, making an inquiry by sending 
a letter of request to the fax number mentioned in 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1328
the notice along with the above details and a fax 
number of the candidate which can be obtained a 
copy of the admission card by fax, may be most 
beneficial. Keeping a copy of the application that 
you have your possession, a copy of the cash receipt 
if the payment of examination fee is applicable 
and the receipt of registration obtained when 
posting the application will be useful to confirm 
any information requested by the 
department of 
Examination.
(c) c andidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down 
by the commissioner-General of Examinations. if
the rules and regulations are violated, he or she will 
be liable to a penalty imposed by the commissioner.
(d) Result list of eligible candidates, in terms of the
chapter 02 of this notification will be submitted to
the 
surveyor General, department of survey. in
addition to that, all the candidates will be informed
results personally or by publishing in the website of
department of Examination sri Lanka www.result.
exams.gov.lk
3. Service Conditions :
(i) Salary :
 in terms of public administrative circular
No. 03/2016 ( mN-5-2016) dated 25-02-
2016, monthly salary scale entitled to this
post is Rs.34,605 -10 x 660 - 11 x 755 - 15
x 930 - Rs. 63,460/ and you will be paid salary
from the date on which the appointment is
implemented.
(ii) Nature of the post :
 this post is permanent and pensionable and
you are subject to a policy decision taken by
the government in future about your pension
scheme. 
further, you should make contribution
to the widow / widower and orphan’s pension
scheme. 
you should pay contribution for that in
the manner ordered by the government time to
time.
(iii) Induction training :
(a) t raining on departmental activities will be
provided to the surveying science graduates
appointed to the post of 
apprentice surveyor 
in the department of survey outside the sri 
Lanka surveyors’ service
(b) Officers with other degrees other than
the holders of the surveying science
degree appointed to the post of apprentice
surveyor in the department of survey
outside the sri Lanka surveyors’ service
should complete a bsc degree course in
surveying science as their second degree at
the institute of surveying and mapping and
training on departmental activities will also
be provided.
(iv) Recruitment to the grade iii of sri Lanka
Surveyors’ Service and confirmation in the
service
Recruitments will be made to the grade iii of
Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service from the officers
who fulfill the following qualifications and
completed the apprentice training successfully,
recruited to the service as an apprentice surveyor
through a language other than an official
language and acquired relevant proficiency in
an official language prior to confirm in the post
and carrying out of his/her duties and behavior
has been fulfilled in satisfactory manner and
serve in the post of 
apprentice surveyor in the
department of survey outside the sri Lanka
surveyors’ service and who is a registered
surveyor in the Land survey council in terms of
the survey act. 17 of 2020.
(a) If an officer who recruited to the post of
apprentice surveyor with a surveying
science degree, having served at least three
years (03) active and satisfactory period
as an apprentice surveyor in the 
survey
department together with six (06) months
training on departmental activities.
(b) If an officer who recruited to the post of
apprentice surveyor with non-surveying
science degree should have complete a
degree in surveying science and served at
least three years (03) active and satisfactory 
period as an apprentice surveyor in the
department of survey.
(v) a ppointees should appear for a medical test
conducted by a medical officer in a government
hospital to check whether they are physically and 
mentally fit to serve in any part of the country.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1329
(vi) s hould be bound to a cash guarantee of
Rs.25,000/- for government stores goods
provided to the officers who recruit.
(vii) Officers, who receive appointment as an
apprentice surveyor with a surveying science
degree, are subjected to six years (06) compulsory 
service period from the date appointed as a
surveyor and officers who receive appointments
as an apprentice surveyor with a non-surveying
science degree are subjected to eight years (08)
compulsory service from the date appointed as a
surveyor. Each officer who receives appointment
as an apprentice surveyor should enter into an
agreement with the 
surveyor General and the
regarding the officers who leave before the
compulsory period of service shall act in terms
of the said agreement.
(viii)  selected candidates should subject to Procedural
rules of Public service commission, provisions
of Establishment Code, financial Regulations,
departmental orders, other regulations and
orders issued by the government from time to
time.
4. Providing false information : When applying to recruit
to the post of 
apprentice surveyor in the department 
of survey outside the sri Lanka surveyors’ service, if a 
candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/
her candidature will be cancelled at any time. Even after 
recruited to this post of apprentice surveyor, if any of the 
particulars furnished by a candidate are found to be false 
within his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed 
any material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal from the 
public service.
05. Preparation and submission of Application :
(i) t he application should be prepared by the
applicant himself using both sides of paper size
21x29 (
a4) as per the specimen application
appearing at the end of this notice. the
application should be prepared so as to include
No. 01 - 05 on page 01 and rest in other pages.
(ii) a pplications should be prepared in the language 
in which the candidates are eligible to sit for the 
examination and relevant information should
be completed by their own handwritings. 
the
name of the examination mentioned in the topic
should be entered in “English” in addition to
sinhala in sinhala applications and in addition 
to tamil in tamil applications. Each section 
of the application should be completed by 
candidates themselves as per the instructions 
given and sections not applicable, should be 
marked as not applicable, if any.
(iii) a pplications which are not complying with the
specimen application, examination fees have not 
been paid before due date and incomplete and of
improper filling will be rejected without
any notification. Candidates should bear
consequences of improper filling of application.
it would be useful to retain a photocopy of the
application. applicant should check out whether 
the completed application is conformity
with the specimen application mentioned in
the notice. 
if not, the application can be
rejected. it should be strictly remembered that
application can be rejected by leaving blanks.
(iv)  candidates, who are already in public or
provincial public service, should submit their
applications through the Head of 
institution,
and who are in public corporations, boards,
local government institutions, should submit
their applications through the head of institution 
on or before the due date. 
the applications
receive after the due date will be rejected, even
if they submit through departments. if signature 
and official stamp have not been placed for
certification of signature in the applications
of the 
candidates, who are already in public
service ,they will also be rejected.
(v)  the words "Recruitment to the post of
apprentice surveyor in the Department of
Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’
service-open competitive examination-2020" 
should be indicated on the top left corner of
the envelope in which the application is
enclosed.
(vi) Only those who have fulfilled qualifications
prescribed in the Gazette notification as at
12.10.2020, the closing date of application,
should apply. 
only the candidates who
submit applications on or before 12.10.2020,
fulfill all prescribed qualifications are
allowed to sit the written examination by the
surveyor General. Giving opportunity to
sit the examination does not mean that

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1330
they have fulfilled the qualification for this 
post.
06. Attestation of Signature.– signature of a candidate
who is already in the public service should have been 
attested by the relevant head of the department or any 
officer authorized by him. The other candidates should get 
their signature attested by a person who authorized for that 
i.e. a Principal of a Government 
school, Justice of peace,
sworn commissioner, Notary Public, Commissioned officer
of three armed forces, an officer holding gazetted post in the
police, service, or an officer in permanent staff or grade in
public service and, an officer in tertiary or senior level as
per the grading of posts in Public 
administration circular
No. 03/2016.
07. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 1,200/=.
the receipt obtained by paying this fee at any of the 
Post/ Sub Post office in the island in order to credit to the 
Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner General 
of Examinations, should be pasted in the relevant cage in 
the application form. (
it is advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt with the applicant). the fee is not refundable 
in any circumstance and money orders and cheques will not 
be accepted. 
applications without receipts will be rejected.
08. Submission of application.– duly completed
applications should be sent by registered post to reach to the 
following address on or before 12.10.2020.
commissioner General of Examination
organization(institutional and foreign Examination)
branch
department of Examination - sri Lanka
P.o. box 1503
colombo.
09. Identity of candidate.– the candidate must prove his/
her identity to the satisfaction of examination supervisor for 
each subject in the examination room.
any of the following documents will be accepted for this 
purpose.
 i. t he National identity card
 ii. Valid passport.
 iii. Valid sri Lankan driving License
candidates must access the examination hall without 
having covered their faces and two ears so as to be able to 
establish their identity. 
candidates who refuse to prove their 
identity will not be allowed to access the examination hall. 
further, faces and two ears should not be covered so as to be 
able to identify the candidates to the examination authorities 
from the moment they accessed the examination hall, and 
until leaving after end of the exam.
10.
 Any matter not specified here will be determined by
surveyor General and all candidates shall be bound to act in 
terms of the general rules and regulations specified in this 
notification.
11.
 in case of any inconsistency or contradictory among
the texts in sinhala, tamil and English in this Gazette 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 a .L. sHyamaLi cHitHraLekHa Perera,
 surveyor General.
survey department,
colombo 05,
on 02nd of september 2020. 
sPecimen aPPLication form 
ministry of Land
SurvEy DEPartMENt
Open competitive examination for recruitment to the posts of Apprentice Surveyors in the 
Survey Department of Sri Lanka - 2020
For Office use
medium of examination :
 sinhala - 2 your degree :
 tamil - 3 01. surveying science
English - 4 02. other
(Write the relevant number in the cage) (Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1331
1.0
 1.1 full Name(in English block Letters) :––––––––––––.
 1.2 Name with initials using initials at the end (in English block letter) :––––––––––––.
  (Eg. PERERa  a.b.c.)
 1.3 full Name(in sinhala/ in tamil) :––––––––––––.
 1.4 date of birth:    date :                          month :                          year :
 1.5 age as at 12.10.2020 : years :                       months :                        days :
 1.6 civil status: married                       Unmarried  
2.0
 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––––. 
  (in English block Letters)
 2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––––. 
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 the address which admission card should be sent :––––––––––––.
  (in English block letters)
3.0  Gender :    male    - 1         (Write the relevant number in the cage) 
       female - 2
4.0   National identity card No. :
5.0   telephone Numbers :  mobile :
      fixed :
6.0  Permanent resident district of applicant: 
 6.1 divisional secretariat :––––––––––––. 
 6.2 Gramaniladhari division :––––––––––––.
7.0 Educational Qualifications:
 7.1 Degree obtained (mention clearly and attach a copy of the degree certificate)
   7.1.1  details of the degree :
      (i) date of degree :––––––––––––. 
      (ii) University/institution :––––––––––––.   
      (iii) subjects :––––––––––––.
      (iv) class :––––––––––––.
      (v) medium of the exam :––––––––––––.
 7.2 details of G.c.E.(a/L) examination:
    (i) y ear and month of the examination :––––––––––––.
    (ii) index Number :––––––––––––.
    (iii) subject stream :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1332
8.0 Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence (indicate the mark “P” in the relevant cage)
    y es                                       No
8.1  if “yes” give details :––––––––––––.
9.0 i f the applicant had previously served in Public/Provincial Public service and then resigned the reason for such 
registration :––––––––––––.
10.0  details of payment of examination fees : 
  10.1 Office at which the payment made :––––––––––––.
  10.2 Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––.
  10.3 a mount paid: Rs :––––––––––––. 
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(keep a photocopy with you)
11.0  Certificate of the candidate :
(a)  i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and the cash receipt of No. ................................ and dated .................................., obtained by paying examination
fee has been affixed. I agree to bear the loss which can be resulted by incompletion of application and or incorrect
filling of application. Further, I declare that all the sections of the application have been completed correctly.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the appointment
and if it is found after the appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from the service.
(c) f urther, i declare that i agree to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by the surveyor General in respect
of the examination.
(d) i  shall not subsequently change any of the particulars mentioned here.
–––––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
 date :––––––––––––.
12.0   Attestation of signature of the Applicant: (Should be as per the paragraph 06 of the gazette notification)
i certify that mr./mrs./miss  ............................................ who is submitting this application is personally known to 
me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence, and prescribed examination fees have been paid and the cash receipt 
has been pasted.
date :––––––––––––. ––––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of attester.
full Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1333
13.0  Applicable only for the officers who are already in the government or semi government institutions :
Attestation of the head of the Department/Institution
mr./mrs./miss .......................................................... who submitted this application is serving in this department/
Institution from ........................... to ........................... it has not been reported unfinished disciplinary charges against him/
her. His/her work behavior and attendance is satisfactory /unsatisfactory. it is informed that prescribed examination fees 
have been paid and the receipt has been pasted, if he/she selected to the post of .................................................. he can be /
cannot be released from the 
department/institution.
–––––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of department / institution
Official Stamp.
date :––––––––––––.
09–396
––––––––––––––––––
STATE mINISTRy Of INTERNAL 
SECuRITy, hOmE AffAIRS AND DISASTER 
mANAGEmENT 
Department of Immigration and Emigration
LimitEd comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to GRadE ii of tHE Post of 
aUtHoRizEd officER, sEGmENt 2 - fiELd/
officE basEd officERs of tHE dEPaRtmENt 
of immiGRatioN aNd EmiGRatioN -2019(2020)
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from the qualified 
citizens of sri Lanka for the Limited competitive 
Examination for recruitment to the post of authorized 
Officer in the Department of Immigration and Emigration.
1. in this notice “Head of the department” shall mean
the controller General of immigration and Emigration. 
Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Officer in 
the department of immigration and Emigration is made by 
this examination. the “Post” shall mean Grade ii of the Post 
of Authorized Officer, unless otherwise specified.
2. the closing date for the application will be sixteenth
(16th) october 2020. 
2.1 Written Examination - the Examination shall 
consist of the following three (03) question 
papers.
01. aptitude test and General knowledge
02. English Language
03. basic knowledge on computer science
2.2  Date of Examination.– this examination shall be 
held in colombo in december 2020. controller 
General of immigration and Emigration reserves 
the right to postpone or cancel this examination.
2.3 Interview :–
 i. 10% of the total No. of vacancies will be 
reserved for female applicants.
 ii. t wofold of candidates similar to the 
number of vacancies who have scored the 
highest marks on the basis indicated in ( i) 
above, out of those who have appeared 
for all the question papers of the written 
examination and scored at least 40% of 
marks or more for each question paper shall 
be interviewed by a 
board of interview 
appointed by the controller General 
of immigration and Emigration ( the 
interview shall be conducted only for the 
purpose of verification of qualifications). 
 iii.  Physical requirements indicated in No. 6.3 
will be examined at the interview. 
3. Number of persons to be appointed is fifty (50). At the
instances where there are candidates, who have scored equal 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1334
marks for the final vacancy or final few vacancies, above the 
number of vacancies, the decision of filling such vacancies 
shall be taken by the 
controller General of immigration and 
Emigration and the effective date of the appointment shall 
also be determined by the 
controller General of immigration 
and Emigration.
4. Conditions of Service :
4.1   a selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade
ii of the service on the general conditions 
governing appointments in the Public service, 
provisions of the Establishments code and 
financial Regulations and Procedural Rules of 
Public service commission published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 
and  on the terms and conditions set out in the 
Procedure of Recruitment of Grade 
ii of the Post 
of Authorized Officer,  segment 2 - Field/Office 
based officers of the Department of Immigration 
and Emigration approved by the  Public 
service 
commission dated 20.12.2013 and subject to 
any amendments made or to be made hereafter 
to the Recruitment Procedure.
4.2
 t his post is permanent and pensionable.
4.3 Recruitment will be made to Grade ii of the Post 
of Authorized Officer is subject to one (1) year 
acting period. First Efficiency Bar Examination 
shall be passed within 03 years from the date of 
recruitment as mentioned in the Procedure of 
Recruitment.
4.4
 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service as 
per Public 
administration circular 01/2014 and 
consequent circulars.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– monthly salary scale relevant
to this post as per schedule i of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs.34,605-
10x660-11x755-15x930- Rs. 63,460( mN- 5/2016). your 
salaries are paid in accordance with the provisions of the 
said circular as mentioned in schedule ii of the same. in 
addition, you are also entitled to the other allowances paid 
to the public officers by the government from time to time.
6. Qualifications for recruitment :
6.1
(i) s hall be a citizen of sri Lanka.
(ii) shall have an excellent moral character.
(iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve
in any part of the island.
6.2 Educational qualifications and experience
(i)  should have passed G. c.E ( o/L) in six
subjects with four credit passes including
credit passes for   mathematics, English, and
sinhala/tamil Language at one sitting
and 
 should have passed at least one subject at 
G.c.E ( a/L) (other than common General
test Paper)
and 
Shall  be  an  officer  in   a  permanent  and  
a  pensionable  post  in  Public  service  or 
Provincial Public service receiving a salary 
under salary code mN-1/2016 or above mN 
salary code who has completed active period 
of service of ten (10) years in any post as at 
the date on which qualifications mentioned 
in the notification of calling applications to 
be fulfilled.
or
(ii)  shall  have  obtained  a  degree  from  a
University recognized by the University
Grants 
commission  or  a degree  awarding
institution recognized  by the University
Grants commission
and
Shall  be  an  officer  in   a  permanent  and  
a  pensionable  post  in  Public  service  or 
Provincial Public service receiving a salary 
under salary code mN-1 /2016 or above 
salary code who has completed active and 
satisfactory period of service of five (5) 
years in any post as at the date on which 
qualifications mentioned in the notification 
of calling applications to be fulfilled.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1335
Note :–
(i) Effective date of the degree and dates on which
expected Passes from G.c.E. (o/L) and G.c.E.
(a/L)  have been obtained shall be a date on or
before sixteenth (16th) october 2020, the last
date on which qualifications should be fulfilled.
(ii) t he  total  of  continuous  periods  of service
in  Public  service  and/or  Provincial Public
service  is  considered  when  calculating  the
above  mentioned  period  of service.
6.3 Physical Requirements :
(i) a  male  applicant’s height should be a 
minimum of 5 feet 04 inches (162.5 cm) and 
the chest circumference should be a minimum 
of  32 inches (81.25cm)
(ii) t he height of a female applicant should be a
minimum of 05 feet 2 inches (156cm)
6.4 Age :
   age limit is not considered as it is applicable to 
the officers already serving in the Public Service.
7. Examination fee.– the examination fee is Rs.600/-. it
should be paid before the closing date of applications at any 
Post Office/ Sub Post Office to be credited to Revenue Head 
20-03-02-13 of 
commissioner General of Examinations.
any fee will not be charged other than the examination fee.
the receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of
the application form. the fee is non-refundable and it shall
not be paid back or transferred to pay any other examination
fee, under any circumstances. 
money orders or stamps are
not accepted for examination fees. (it would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the receipt.)
8. Method of application :
8.1 t he application should be in the form of the
specimen  appended  to  this  notification  and 
should be prepared by the candidate himself 
on paper of size 8 ½" x 12" (
a-4) using both 
sides. the application shall be prepared 
by the applicant in his own handwriting or 
computerized or typed. 
it is emphasized that the 
application should be filled by the applicant in 
his own handwriting. 
it should be specially noted 
that the application forms should be prepared 
that cages 1.0 to 2.9 appear on the first side of 
the paper and cages 2.10 to 5.2 appear on the 
other side of the same paper and the rest are on 
the other pages. 
applications that do not comply 
with the specimen and that are not completed 
in every aspect shall be rejected without notice. 
it is the responsibility of the applicant to make 
sure that the application form perfected by him/
her complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice as otherwise the application 
may be rejected. (
it may be useful  for the 
applicant to keep a photocopy of the application)
8.2 t he application should be in the language 
medium in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination.
8.3
 t he completed application form for the 
examination should be sent through the Head of 
department by registered post to reach the,
“Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization (Institutional and foreign  
 Examination) branch,
Department of Examinations – Sri Lanka,
P. O. box 1503,
 Colombo.”
 on or before sixteenth (16th) october 2020. the 
words “Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of Authorized Officer 
– 2019 (2020)” should be clearly indicated on the 
top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing
the application. 
any application received after
the closing date shall be rejected. it is essential
to mention the name of examination in English
language as well in applications prepared in both
sinhala and tamil mediums.
8.4 t he Post and place of work of the applicant at 
the time of applying for the examination are 
applicable for all the purposes related to the 
examination and any changes occur after sending 
the application shall not be considered. 
8.5
 c andidate’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government 
school/a Justice of Peace/ 
commissioner for oaths/ attorney-at-Law/ 
Notary Public/Commissioned officer in the Three 
Armed Forces/an Officer holding a Gazetted 
post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a 
permanent post in 
staff Grade in Public service. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1336
8.6 any application, which is not completed in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in post 
shall be considered.
8.7 Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. 
commissioner General of examinations will issue 
admission cards to the applicants who have sent 
the applications which are completed in every 
aspect on the presumption that only the persons 
who possess the qualifications mentioned in the 
Gazette notification have applied for this post. 
a notice shall be published in the newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as soon as 
admission cards are issued to applicants. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 
days of such an advertisement, action shall be 
taken by the applicant to notify the department 
of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. When informing, the name of 
the examination applied for, full name, address 
and the Nic number of the candidate shall be 
indicated. it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the candidate to the 
department of Examinations through the fax 
number mentioning the notification for sending 
a copy of the admission. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt relevant to payment of 
examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information 
requested by the department of Examinations.
9. admission to the Examination :
9.1  only the applicants who have been issued 
admission cards by the commissioner General 
of Examinations will be permitted to sit the 
examination. any candidate who fails to produce 
his/her admission card on the Examination date 
will not be permitted to sit the examination.
9.2  candidates must sit the examination according 
to the examination hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate should get his admission card attested 
in advance and surrender it to the supervisor of 
the hall on the first day he presents himself for 
the examination. a set of rules to be observed by 
all candidates is published at the beginning in 
this Gazette.
Note: the issuance of an admission card to a candidate  
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination and to hold a 
post or has fulfilled all the eligibility qualifications 
according to the notice.
10. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate shall be 
required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject offered. 
for this purpose, any of the following documents will be 
accepted:
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) Valid passport
 (iii) Valid driving license of sri Lanka
             
further, candidates shall enter the examination hall 
without covering their face and ears enabling to identify 
them at the hall. those, who refuse to reveal their identity, 
shall not be allowed to enter the examination hall. further, 
such candidates shall remain their face and ears uncovered 
enabling the supervisors to identify them without any 
obstacle until they are allowed to leave at the end of the 
prescribed time
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– application 
should be filled very carefully and correct information 
should be provided. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, 
his/her candidature is liable to be canceled at any stage 
prior to, during or after the examination as per the rules and 
regulations of this examination. 
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations shall 
be dealt with as determined by the controller General of 
immigration and Emigration.
13. Conducting of Examination :
13.1  the Examination shall be held in sinhala, 
tamil and English languages.
13.2  a  candidate shall sit the examination in 
the language medium in which he/ she has 
obtained the highest educational qualification 
or in an official language.
13.3  a  candidate, who has passed subjects at the 
qualifying degree examination in two or more    
languages, shall sit the examination in the 
language medium in which he/she passed the 
majority of the subjects at such examination or 
in an official language.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1337
13.4  a  candidate with a special degree who has passed the principal subject in one language and the subsidiary 
subject in another language shall sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal subject 
or in an official language.
Note:
(i) The term “Qualifying Degree” in 13.3 above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in
paragraph 6.2(ii).
(ii) a  candidate must sit in the same language for the two question papers viz,   aptitude test &
General knowledge and basic knowledge on computer science other than English language
question paper. 
(iii) a  candidate shall not be permitted later to change the language medium of the examination
indicated in the application.
14. Method of recruitment :
14.1  Written examination :-
  a written examination of three (03) question papers including the following subjects shall be conducted. 
candidates should sit all the question papers. subjects and the minimum marks that shall be obtained for 
each subject are as follows:
No. of the 
Subject Subject Marks Minimum marks 
required to pass Duration Hours
01 aptitude test and General knowledge 100 40 2
02 English Language 100 40 2
03 basic knowledge on computer science 100 40 1
14.2  General interview :
(i) The general interview shall be conducted to verify whether the candidate has satisfied qualifications
for recruitment mentioned in No. 06 above. the general interview board is appointed by the Head of
the department.
(ii) out of the candidates who have scored a minimum of forty (40%) marks or above in each subject,
those who score the highest marks in the aggregate for all the subjects will qualify to appear for
the general interview. candidates are called for the interview in order of their merit at the written
examination and twofold of the applicants similar to the applicants to be recruited from the qualified
candidates. Only qualified candidates are called for the interview at the instances where there are no
twofold of applicants similar to the applicants to be recruited.
N. 
b. - opportunity given to a candidate for appearing for the interview does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate has possessed eligibility qualifications to be awarded for an appointment.
 14.3 a s per the existing vacancies, appointments shall be made to this post “according to merits beginning from 
candidate who has scored highest marks” as per the total marks obtained at the written examination.
14.4  Results.– the result sheet prepared according to merits beginning from candidates who have scored 
highest marks as per the total marks obtained at the written examination, as indicated in para. 14.1 of 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1338
this Gazette notification will be submitted 
to the  controller General of immigration 
and Emigration. the results shall be 
communicated to the applicants personally 
by the commissioner General of 
Examinations or publishing on the web 
site www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
candidates 
shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting the 
examination and issuing results and they are 
liable to a punishment imposed by him for 
breach of these rules.
15.
syllabus of the written examination :
01. a ptitude test and General Knowledge –
duration two (02) hours. 100 marks
 Part i - aptitude test
Questions are designed to test logical reasoning 
skills, mathematical skills, comprehension and 
ability to taking decisions.
       Part ii – General Knowledge
Questions are designed to test the candidate’ s 
knowledge on the recent economic, social 
and political background of sri Lanka, global 
politics, knowledge on science and technology 
and new scientific inventions. This question 
paper shall consist of multiple choice questions 
and/or questions for short answers.
02.
English Language - duration two (02) hours.
100 marks
Questions are designed to test the comprehension, 
expressing ideas and communication skills of
the candidate.
03. b asic knowledge on computer science -
duration one (01) hours. 100 marks
Questions are designed to test the basic 
knowledge 
on computer, usage of software 
such as ms Word, and ms Excel, knowledge 
on the usage of internet and e-mail.
16. in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, 
Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail. In such situations should follow 
the 
sinhala medium notice.
U. V. saratH ruPasiri,
 controller General of immigration and 
Emigration,
 department of immigration and Emigration.
department of immigration and Emigration
“suhurupaya”
battaramulla,
24th august, 2020.
sPecimen form of aPPLication
(For office use only)
Limited comPetitive examination for recruitment to
grade ii of tHe Post of autHorized officer -2019(2020)
1. medium : (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Language Medium of Examination No:
sinhala 2
tamil 3
English 4
 (application should be completed in medium of 
language in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination)
2.
Personal information:
2.1  Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
 (Eg: HERatH mUdiyaNsELaGE samaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
2.2 Name with initials at the end ( in English block 
capitals) :––––––––––––.
 (eg. : GUNaWaRdHaNa H.m. s. K).
2.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil)  :––––––––––––.
2.4 Permanent address (in English block capitals)
 :––––––––––––.
2.5 a ddress to which admission card should be posted :
 i. …………………………………
             (in English block capitals)
 ii. ………………………………… 
(in sinhala/tamil)

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1339
2.6  Gender (indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
 male     - 0
 female - 1 
2.7  Race (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
 i . s inhala  - 1
  ii . tamil    -2
 iii. i ndian tamil   - 3
 iV . m uslim - 4
V. o ther - 5
2.8  National identity card Number: 
2.9  mobile Phone Number: 
2.10 d ate of birth :
 year : month :   date :
2.11  age as at sixteenth (16th) october 2020 which is 
the date of fulfilling qualifications:
 years : m onths :  d ays :
3.1  indicate the language medium in which you passed 
the qualifying examination / interview for entry to 
the service as at sixteenth (16th) october 2020 :               
–––––––––––.
3.2  Whether all the qualifications mentioned in Para 
6 of the Gazette Notification have been fulfilled : 
––––––––––.
3.3 State whether you become qualified under Para 6.2 
(i) or 6.2 (ii)  :––––––––––––.
4.  Educational qualifications  :-
4.1  degree Qualification:
 i. d ate of graduation :––––––––––––.
 ii. University/institute :––––––––––––.
 iii. Registration Number :––––––––––––. 
 iV . i nternal/External :––––––––––––.
V. d egree :––––––––––––.
VI. Subjects/ Subject field :––––––––––––.
Vii. i ndex No. :––––––––––––.
Viii. Language medium of Examination: :––––––.
4.2    G.c.E. (a/L) examination :
 i. y ear in which the applicant passed the 
examination :––––––––––––.
 ii. i ndex No. :––––––––––––.
 iii. Language medium of examination :–––––––.
 iV . Passes:
1…………………   2. ………………… 
3…………………   4. ………………… 
4.3  G.c.E (o/L) examination :
 i. y ear in which the applicant passed the 
examination :––––––––––––.
 ii. i ndex No. :––––––––––––.
 iii. Language medium of examination :–––––––.
 iV . Passes:
1.…………………   2. ………………… 
3.…………………   4. ………………… 
5.…………………   6. ………………… 
7.…………………   8. ………………… 
9.…………………   10. ………………… 
5. Physical Requirements :–
5.1.  Height :
……..… feet …………… inches or ………… cm
5.2.  circumference of chest ………cm (Not applicable 
for female applicants.) :
……..… feet …………… inches or ………… cm
6. Experience:-
6.1  Present Post :––––––––––––.
6.2  Grade :––––––––––––.
6.3  date of appointment to the post :––––––––––––.
6.4  Date of confirmation in the said post :––––––––––.
6.5  salary code and salary scale :––––––––––––.
6.6  Whether the said post belongs to Public service or
Provincial Public service :––––––––––––.
6.7  if several services are applicable for you to be 
qualified for this post, particulars of said periods :
Service/Post Salary code      Date of
and Grade   Appointment
i. …………… ...................... ...................
ii. …………… ...................... ...................
iii. …………… ...................... ...................
iv. …………… ...................... ...................

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1340
6.8  t otal period of active and satisfactory service as 
at sixteenth (16th) october 2020, in an approved 
post/posts mentioned in Para 6.2 of the Gazette 
Notification :––––––––––––.
7. Payment of examination fees :-
i. Post Office / Sub Post Office :––––––––––––.
ii.  amount paid :––––––––––––.
iii.  date on which the amount paid :––––––––––––.
iv. Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Paste one edge of the receipt here securely 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8. Certificate of the applicant :
I declare that I have fulfilled all the qualifications
that should be fulfilled as at the closing date of calling 
applications as per paragraph 6 of the Gazette  Notification   
and  
i  have  not  been  subject  to  any  form  of  disciplinary 
punishment (Excluding warning) . further i declare that i 
shall be bound by the decisions taken by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting and issuing results 
of this examination.
 
i  declare  that  i  am  eligible  to  sit  this  Limited  
competitive  Examination  as  per  all  rules  and regulations 
mentioned in the Gazette, and that to the  best  of  my  
knowledge,  the information given in this is true. i also 
agree to be bound  by  the  rules  and  regulations  of  this 
examination and any decision that may be  taken to  cancel 
my candidature prior or during or after the examination, if 
it is found  that  
i  am  ineligible  according  to  the  minute  
of  this examination. further, i declare that i shall be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting of this examination.
–––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
9. Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to
the personal file) :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss..................................
............................................  (full name) who is submitting 
this application is serving in a post of   .........................  in  
ministry/  department  of ………………………......…….....  
under  the central Government/ Provincial council of ...........
....................., and possessed  active  and  satisfactory  service  
period of….(five/ten) years, as per Para 6 of the Gazette 
notification, has not been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment (Except warnings)  during  the  aforesaid  period 
and he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per 
regulations stipulated in the relevant Gazette Notification, 
he/she has paid the prescribed examination fees and affixed 
the receipt herein, and signed this application in my presence 
on ………………….. 2020.
–––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the department.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
09–469/1
–––––––––––––––––
STATE mINISTRy Of INTERNAL 
SECuRITy, hOmE AffAIRS AND DISASTER 
mANAGEmENT 
Department of Immigration and Emigration
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to GRadE ii of tHE Post of 
aUtHoRizEd officER, sEGmENt 2 fiELd/officE 
basEd officERs of tHE dEPaRtmENt of 
immiGRatioN aNd EmiGRatioN -2019(2020) 
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from the qualified 
citizens of sri Lanka for the open competitive examination 
for recruitment to the post of Authorized Officer in the 
department of immigration and Emigration.
1. in this notice “Head of the department” shall mean
the controller General of immigration and Emigration. 
Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Officer in 
the department of immigration and Emigration is made by 
this examination. the “Post” shall mean Grade ii of the Post 
of Authorized Officer, unless otherwise specified.
2. the closing date for the application will be sixteenth
(16th) october 2020
1.1 Written Examination.–  the Examination shall 
consist of the following three (03) question papers.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1341
01. aptitude test and General Knowledge
02. English Language
03. basic knowledge on computer science
2.2 Date of Examination: - this examination shall be 
held in colombo in december 2020. controller 
        General   of immigration and Emigration reserves 
the right to postpone or cancel this examination.
2.3 Interview:- 
 i. 10% of the total no. of vacancies will be 
reserved for female applicants.
 ii. twofold of candidates similar to the number of 
vacancies who have scored the highest marks 
on the basis indicated in (i) above, out of those 
who have appeared for all the question papers 
of the written examination and scored at least 
40% of marks or more for each question paper 
shall be interviewed by a 
board of interview 
appointed by the controller General of 
immigration and Emigration. ( the interview 
shall be conducted only for the purpose of 
verification of qualifications) 
 iii. Physical requirements indicated in No. 6.3 shall 
be examined at the interview. 
3. Number of persons to be appointed is fifteen (15). At
the instances where there are candidates, who have scored 
equal marks for the final vacancy or final few vacancies, 
above the number of vacancies, the decision of filling 
such vacancies shall be taken by the 
controller General of 
immigration and Emigration and the effective date of the 
appointment shall be determined by the controller General 
of immigration and Emigration.
4. Conditions of Service :
4.1  a selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade ii 
of the service on the general conditions governing  
appointments in the Public service and on the 
terms and conditions set out in the Procedure of 
Recruitment of Grade ii of the Post of authorized 
Officer, segment 2-Field/Office based officers of 
the 
department of immigration and Emigration 
approved by the  Public service commission dated 
20.12.2013, provisions of the Establishments 
code and financial Regulations and Procedural 
Rules of Public service commission published 
in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 of 
20.02.2009.
4.2 
 this post is permanent and pensionable. However, 
appointees shall be subjected to the policy 
decisions that will be made by the government in 
future with regard to the pension scheme entitled 
to them.
4.3 
 Recruitment will be made to Grade ii of the Post 
of Authorized Officer subject to 3 years probation 
period. First Efficiency Bar Examination should 
be passed within 03 years from the date of 
recruitment. 
4.4 
 Prescribed official language proficiency should be 
obtained within 05 years of joining the service as 
per Public 
administration circular 01/2014 and 
consequent circulars.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.- monthly salary scale relevant
to this post as per schedule i of Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is Rs.34,605-
10x660-11x755-15x930- Rs. 63,460( mN- 5/2016). your 
salaries are paid in accordance with the provisions of the 
said circular as mentioned in schedule ii of the same. in 
addition, you are also entitled to the other allowances paid 
to the public officers by the government from time to time.
6. Qualifications for recruitment :
6.1
 i. s hall be a citizen of sri Lanka,
 ii. s hall have an excellent moral character,
III. Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve
in any part of the island.
6.2 Educational qualifications :-
(i) shall have possessed a degree from a
university recognized by the University
Grants 
commission or from an institution
recognized by the University Grants
commission as an institution for awarding
degrees.
and
(ii) shall have obtained a credit pass for English 
Language at the G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.
Note. - Effective date of the degree and  date on which 
credit Pass for English Language at the G. c.E 
(o/L) Examination has been obtained shall be a 
date on or before sixteenth (16th) october 2020 
which is the last date  to meet the qualifications.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1342
6.3 Physical Requirements :-
 i. a male applicant’ s height should be a 
minimum of 5 feet 04 inches (162.5 cm) and 
the chest circumference should be a minimum 
of   32 inches (81.25cm)
 ii. t he height of a female applicant should be a 
minimum of 05 feet 2 inches (156cm)
6.4  Age.– shall not be less than twenty one (21) years 
and not more than thirty five (35) years of age as 
at the closing date of applications. 
accordingly, 
only the candidates, whose date of birth falls 
on or before sixteenth (16th) 
october 1999 and 
whose date of birth falls on or after sixteenth 
(16th) October 1985 are qualified for applying.
7. Examination fee.– 
the examination fee is Rs.600/- it
should be paid before the closing date of applications at any 
Post Office/Sub Post Office to be credited to Revenue Head 
20-03-02-13 of 
commissioner General of Examinations.
any fee will not be charged other than the examination fee.
the receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of
the application form. the fee is non-refundable and it shall
not be paid back or transferred to pay any other examination
fee, under any circumstances. 
money orders or stamps are
not accepted for examination fees. (it would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the receipt.)
8. Method of application :
8.1 t he application should be in the form of the
specimen  appended  to  this  notification  and 
should be prepared by the candidate himself 
on paper of size 8 ½" x 12" (
a-4) using both 
sides. the application shall be prepared by the 
applicant in his own handwriting or computerized 
or typed. Application should be filled by the 
applicant in his own hand writing. 
it should 
be specially noted that the application forms 
should be prepared that cages 1.0 to 2.9 appear 
on the first side of the paper and cages 2.10 to 
7.0 appear on the other side of the same paper 
and the rest are on the other pages.. 
applications 
that do not comply with the specimen and that 
are not completed in every aspect shall be 
rejected without notice. 
it is the responsibility of 
the applicant to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice as 
otherwise the application may be rejected. (
it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
with candidate)
8.2
 t he application should be in the language 
medium in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination.
8.3 t he completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by registered post to 
reach the,
“Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization (Institutional and foreign  
 Examination) branch,
Department of Examinations – Sri Lanka,
P. O. box 1503,
 Colombo”.
 on or before sixteenth (16th) october 2020. the 
words “Open Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of Authorized Officer 
– 2019(2020)” should be clearly indicated on the
top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing
the application. 
any application received after
the closing date shall be rejected. it is essential
to mention the name of examination in English
language as well in applications prepared in both
sinhala and tamil mediums.
8.4 c andidate’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government school, a Justice of Peace, 
commissioner for oaths, attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, and Commissioned Officer in 
the Armed Forces, an Officer holding a gazetted 
post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a 
permanent post in 
staff Grade in Public service.
8.5 a ny application, which is not completed in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in post 
shall be considered.
8.6
 Receipt of applications shall not be 
acknowledged. commissioner General of 
examinations will issue admission cards to 
the applicants who have sent the applications 
which are completed in every aspect on 
the presumption that only the persons who 
possess the qualifications mentioned in the 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1343
Gazette notification have applied for this post. 
a notice shall be published in the newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as soon 
as admission cards are issued to applicants. if 
the admission card is not received even after 2 
or 3 days of such an advertisement, applicant 
shall take action to notify the department of 
Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. When informing, the name of 
the examination applied for, full name, address 
and the Nic number of the candidate shall be 
indicated it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the candidate to the 
department of Examinations through the fax 
number mentioning the notification for sending 
a copy of the admission. further, it would be 
advisable to keep a copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt relevant to payment of 
examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information 
requested by the department of Examinations.
9. admission to the Examination :
9.1 only the applicants who have been issued 
admission cards by the commissioner General 
of Examinations will be permitted to sit the 
examination. any candidate who fails to produce 
his admission card on the examination date will 
not be permitted to sit the examination.
9.2 candidates must sit the examination according 
to the examination hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate should get his admission card attested 
in advance and surrender it to the supervisor of 
the hall on the first day he presents himself for 
the examination. a set of rules to be observed by 
all candidates is published at the beginning in this 
Gazette.
Note: the issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he or she has fulfilled 
the requisite qualifications to sit the examination 
and to hold a post or has fulfilled all the eligibility 
qualifications according to the notice.
10. Identity of Candidates.- a candidate shall be required 
to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject offered. 
for this purpose, any of the following documents will be 
accepted:
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) Valid passport
 (iii) Valid driving license of sri Lanka
             
further, candidates shall enter the examination hall 
without covering their face and ears enabling to identify 
them at the hall. those, who refuse to reveal their identity, 
shall not be allowed to enter the examination hall. further, 
such candidates shall remain their face and ears uncovered 
enabling the supervisors to identify them without any 
obstacle until they are allowed to leave at the end of the 
prescribed time.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information:- application 
should be filled very carefully and correct information 
should be provided. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, 
his/her candidature is liable to be canceled at any stage 
prior to, during or after the examination as per the rules and 
regulations of this examination. 
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations shall 
be dealt with as determined by the controller General of 
immigration and Emigration.
13. Conducting of Examination :
13.1. the Examination shall be held in sinhala, tamil 
and English languages.
13.2. a candidate shall sit the examination in the 
language medium of the degree which qualifies 
him/her to sit the examination or in an official 
language.
13.3 a candidate, who has passed subjects at the 
qualifying degree examination in two or more    
languages, shall sit the examination in the 
language medium in which he/she passed the 
majority of the subjects at such examination or 
in an official language.
13.4 a candidate with a special degree who has 
passed the principal subject in one language and 
the subsidiary subject in another language shall 
sit the examination in the language in which 
he passed the principal subject or in an official 
language.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1344
Note:
 (i) The term “Qualifying Degree” in 13.3 above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in paragraph 
6.2(ii).
 (ii) a candidate must sit in the same language for the two question papers viz,   aptitude test &General knowledge 
and basic knowledge on computer science other than English language question paper. 
 (iii) a candidate shall not be permitted later to change the language medium of the examination indicated in the 
application.
14. Method of recruitment :
14.1  Written examination:- a written examination of three (03) question papers including the following subjects 
shall be conducted candidates should sit all the question papers. subjects and the minimum marks that shall 
be obtained for each subject are as follows:
No. of the 
Subject Subject Marks  Minimum marks  
required to pass Duration Hours
01 aptitude test and General knowledge 100 40 2
02 English Language 100 40 2
03 basic knowledge on computer science 100 40 1
14.2  General interview :
 (i) The general interview shall be held to verify whether the candidate has fulfilled qualifications for 
recruitment mentioned in No. 06 above .the general interview board is appointed by the Head of the 
department.
 (ii)  out of the candidates who have scored a minimum of forty (40%) marks or above in each subject, those 
who score the highest marks in the aggregate for all the subjects will qualify to appear for the general 
interview. candidates are called for the interview in order of their merit at the written examination and 
twofold of the applicants to be recruited from the qualified candidates. Only qualified candidates are 
called for the interview at the instances where there are no twofold of applicants similar to the approved 
cadre. 
          
N.b. - opportunity given to a candidate for appearing for the interview does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate has possessed eligibility qualifications to be awarded an appointment.
14.3 as per the existing vacancies, appointments shall be made to this post according to merits beginning from 
candidates who have scored highest marks as per the total marks obtained at the written examination.
14.4 Results.– the result sheet prepared according to merits beginning from candidates who have scored highest 
marks as per the total marks obtained at the written examination, as indicated in para. 14.1 of this Gazette 
notification will be submitted to the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration. The results shall be 
communicated to the applicants personally by the commissioner General of Examinations or publishing on 
the web site www.results.exams.gov.lk. candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination and issuing results and they are liable 
to a punishment imposed by him for breach of these rules.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1345
15. Syllabus of the written examination :
01. aptitude test and General Knowledge – duration 
two (02) hours. 100 marks
 Part i - aptitude test
 Questions are designed to test logical reasoning 
skills, mathematical skills, comprehension and 
ability to taking decisions.
       Part ii – General Knowledge
 Questions are designed to test the candidate’s 
knowledge on the recent economic, social 
and political background of sri Lanka, global 
politics, knowledge on science and technology 
and new scientific inventions. This question 
paper shall consist of multiple choice questions 
and/or questions for short answers.
02. English Language - duration two (02) hours. 100 
marks
        Questions are designed to test the comprehension, 
expressing ideas and communication skills of   
the candidate.
03. basic knowledge on computer science - duration 
one (01) hours. 100 marks
 Questions are designed to test the basic 
knowledge on computer, usage of software such 
as ms Word,   and ms Excel, knowledge on the 
usage of internet and e-mail.
16. in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, 
Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail. In such situations should follow 
the sinhala medium notice.
 U. V . 
saratH ruPasiri,
 controller General of immigration and  
 Emigration, 
 department of immigration and Emigration.
department of immigration and Emigration
“suhurupaya”
battaramulla,
24th august, 2020.
sPecimen form of aPPLication
(For office use only)
oPen comPetitive examination for recruitment to 
grade ii of tHe Post of autHorized officer -2019(2020)
1. medium : (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Language Medium of Examination No:
sinhala 2
tamil 3
English 4
  (application should be completed in medium of 
language in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination)
2.  Personal information:
 2.1  Name in full (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
  (eg: HERatH mUdiyaNsELaGE samaN 
KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
 2.2 Name with initials at the end (in English block 
capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (eg. : GUNa WaRdHaNa H.m. s. K).
 2.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil)  :––––––––––––.
 2.4 Permanent address (in English block capitals)
   :––––––––––––.
 2.5 address to which admission card should be posted :
 i. …………………………………
             (in English block capitals)
 ii. ………………………………… 
  (in sinhala/tamil)
 2.6  Gender (indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
  male     - 0
  female - 1 
 2.7  Race (
indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
  i. sinhala  - 1
  ii. tamil    -2
  iii. indian tamil   - 3
  iV . muslim   - 4 
  V . other  - 5

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1346
2.8  National identity card Number: 
2.9  mobile Phone Number: 
2.10 d ate of birth :
  y ear :                         month :   date :
2.11  age as at sixteenth (16th) october 2020 which is 
the date of fulfilling qualifications:
 years :  m onths :  d ays :
3. Educational Qualifications :
3.1  degree Qualifications :
 i. d ate of graduation :––––––––––––.
 ii. University/institute :––––––––––––.
 iii. Registration Number :––––––––––––. 
 iV . i nternal/External :––––––––––––.
V. d egree :––––––––––––.
Vi. s ubjects/ subject area :––––––––––––.
Vii. i ndex No. :––––––––––––.
Viii. Language medium of Examination: :––––––.
3.2    G.c.E. (o/L) examination :
 i. y ear in which the applicant passed the 
examination :––––––––––––.
 ii. i ndex No. :––––––––––––.
 iii. Language medium of examination :–––––––.
 iV . Pass obtained for English Language :––––––.
4. Physical Requirements
4.1.  Height :
……..… feet …………… inches  ………… cm
4.2.  circumference of chest ………cm 
……..… feet …………… inches   ………… cm 
(Not applicable for female applicants.) :
5.   
5.1  Have you been found guilty by court of Law ? (yes/
No.) :––––––––––––.
5.2  if so, give details :––––––––––––.
6.
6.1  are you holding a post in the Public service (yes/
No) :––––––––––. 
6.2  if so, give details :––––––––––––.
7.0 Whether you have been dismissed or whether you have 
resigned from a post in the Public service :––––––––.
8. Payment of examination fees :
i. Post Office / Sub Post Office :––––––––––––.
ii.  amount paid :––––––––––––.
iii.  date on which the amount paid :––––––––––––.
iv. Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Paste one edge of the receipt here securely 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
9. Certificate of the candidate :
i declare that information given in this form is true to the
best of my knowledge and belief. i also agree to be bound 
by the rules governing the examination and any decision 
that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during 
or after the examination, if it is found that 
i am ineligible 
according to the regulations of this examination. further, i 
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by 
commissioner - General of Examinations on conducting of 
the exam.
–––––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
10. attestation of the applicant's signature (Para 8.4 of the
Gazette Notification) :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss................................
..............................................  ( full name) who sumits this 
application is personally known to me and that he/she signed 
before me on ........................ 2020 and further the receipt of 
examination fee is affixed on payment of relevant fee. 
    
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting 
the signature.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Frank)
09–469/2

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'11
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2020
1347
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.
amENdmENt
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
GazEttE Notice No. 09-144 dated 04.09.2020 recruiting 
students for National colleges of Education 2020 on results 
of 2018 (a/L) should be amended as follows :
Course No.   49 - business and Accounting 
Studies (Sinhala)
50 - business and Accounting 
Studies (Tamil)
4.28
4.28.1 s hould have passed in either the  
three (03) subjects of accounting, 
business studies, Economics under 
the commerce stream or two (02) out 
of those three subjects and one of the 
subjects mentioned below as the third 
subject, in one sitting at G. 
c. E. (a/L) 
examination held in the year 2018,
• Business Statistics, Geography, Political
Science, History, Logic & Scientific
method, English, German, french,
agricultural science, combined
maths or mathematics, information &
communication technology, Physics.
and
 4.28.2 should have passed the G. c.E. ( o/L) 
Examination at least with a credit pass 
in business & accounting studies/ 
Entrepreneurship studies together with 
qualifications mentioned in 3.3.1 of 3.0.
Professor K. kaPiLa c. k. Perera,
 s ecretary, 
 ministry of Education. 
ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, 
battaramulla, 
07th of september, 2020.
09–517
STATE mINISTRy Of INTERNAL 
DEfENCE, hOmE AffAIRS AND DISASTER 
mANAGEmENT
Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in 
Grade II of Grama Niladhari Service - 2020
THE third section of the first paragraph and the closing date 
for calling application given in Paragraph 09 of the Notice of 
examination on Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers 
in Grade 
ii of Grama Niladhari service - 2020 published in 
the Gazette Notification No. 2187 dated 31st July, 2020 are 
amended as follows :
(i) Only the third section of the first paragraph is
amended as follows.
* It is hereby notified that thereby it will be
held in the month of december 2020 and the
applications are called for same.
(ii) t he closing date for application in Paragraph 9
will be extended until 30.09.2020. accordingly, the
applicants should have fulfilled all the qualifications 
as at 30.09.2020.
(iii) t he appilcants who have already appiled for this
examination are also informed not to apply for this
examination again. 
 k amaL gunaratne WWV RWP RsP UsP ndc psc,
 major General (Retd),
  secretary, 
 state ministry of internal security, 
Home affairs and  disaster management. 
state ministry of internal security,
Home affairs and disaster management, 
"Nila medura", 
Elvitigala mawatha, 
colombo 05,
01st september, 2020.
09–498