

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08..07.2016
911
wxl 1"975 - 2016  cQ,s 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'07'08
No. 1,975-  Friday ,  July 08  2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
  
Page 
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... —
By-laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
 
Page 
Examinations, results of Examinations, &c. ... 912
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
911
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
aTTENTiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th July, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th July, 2016.
 electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
 B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.— Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 13, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2016
912
Dep artment  of LocaL Government - 
centraL province
open /Limited competitive examination 
for the Recruitment to the Posts of Revenue 
Inspectors Grade III in the Revenue 
Inspectors' Service Prevailing in the Local 
Government Institutions in the central 
Province- 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified male/ female 
permanent residents to recruit for the posts of Revenue In-
spectors Grade III in the Revenue Inspectors' Service in the 
Local Government Institutions in the Central Province.
   Examination - The examination to select the suitable 
candidates will be organized by the Central Province Public 
Service Commission or by the Commissioner General of Ex-
aminations, on behalf of the Commission. It is proposed to 
conduct this examination in Kandy town itself.
01. The number of Appointments and the Effective Date of 
Appointments -
The Commissioner of Local Government will decide the 
effective date of appointments. The Commissioner of Local 
Government reserve the rights to cancel certain vacancies or 
all   vacancies.
02.  Conditions of the Service -
 (i)  Recruitment to the posts of Revenue Inspectors 
Grade III in the Revenue Inspectors' service of the 
Central Province will be made subjected to the gen-
eral conditions of recruitment and promotion set out 
or laid down in future.
 (ii) These posts are permanent and pensionable.
 (iii)  The suitable candidates selected to the posts will be 
on probation for a period of three years from the date 
of appointment.
 (iv)  The officers do not quality to confirm to the posts on 
the end of probation period. will be liable to dismiss-
al of the post.
 (v)  According to the P .A. Circular No. 01/2014, all the 
officers who have recruited for the Public Service 
should obtain the proficiency in an official language 
in addition to the official language medium in which 
they gained qualifications to enter the public service, 
should passed in the basic competency level exami-
nation within 05 years from the date of appointment.
(Obtainable competency is Level 03 group) The sala-
ry increments of the officers who do not obtain pre-
scribed Level two will be suspend till they gain the 
basic competency level.
 (vi)  The selected officers are liable to serve in any part of 
the Province and no request of transfers will be con-
sidered till the end of probation period.
  (vii) The selected officer is subjected to the conditions 
of the Establishments Code, Financial Regulations, 
Provincial Finance Statue and conditions and reg-
ulations issued by the Government and the Central 
Provincial Council from time to time.
 (viii)  Official uniforms should be out fitted on perfor -
mance of field duties.
 (xi) If the Head of the Department / Institution ordered, 
the officer should be kept with a motor cycle for trav-
els.
 (x) If the Head of the Department / Institution ordered, 
should be available to serve on day and as well as 
night duties to supervise and collect income on spe-
cial occasions such as carnivals.
03.  Salary Scale - According to the Public Administra-
tion Circular No.03/2016. and Code No.MN- 01/2016, the 
consolidated salary scale monthly, Rs.27,140 - 10 x 300 - 11 x 
350 - 10 x 495 -10 x 660 - Rs. 45,540. As such, you will be paid 
according to the provisions of the said Circular in Schedule 
II.
 
04. Qualifications:
I. Basic Qualifications –
Every applicant, 
  (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
  (b) Should not be less than 18 years and not more 
than 45 years at the closing date of application 
(i-e) as at 05.08.2016 ). This maximum age limit 
does not apply for the officers who are already 
serving permanent posts in the Local Govern-
ment Institutions Public Service of the Central 
Province.
  (c) Should be of excellent moral character and phys-
ically sound.
examinations, Results of examinations

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08..07.2016
913
  (d) Any one ordained in any chapter of certain reli-
gions will not permitted to appear for this exam-
ination.
  (e) Should be a permanent resident of Central Prov-
ince. (Most immediate 03 years of permanent 
residency to the last date of application has to 
proven by election register at the interview).
  (f) Should not  have been penalized by a Court of 
Law under Penal Code.
Note: All applicants should be ready with the education-
al qualifications, professional service certificates to produce, 
when the Commissioner of Local Government demand 
them. Pending examination result holders can not be ap-
plied.
 (II) Educational and other Qualifications: 
  Open Recruitments :-
 i. Passed in the General Certificate of Education (Or 
 dinary Level) Examination in 06 subjects, with 05 
Credit passes including Sinhala/ Tamil / English and 
Maths / Arithmetics / Commercial Arithmetics and 
a pass in English Language, in not more than two 
sittings and,
 ii. Passed once in 03 subjects in the General Certificate 
of Education (Advanced Level) Examination, under  
New Syllabus (except General English Examination 
and General Test) or three subjects in once under 
the Old Syllabus.
   Limited Recruitments :-
 i. Passed in the General Certificate of Education (Or -
dinary Level) Examination / National Certificate of 
General Education Examination in 06 subjects, with 
05 credit passes including Sinhala / Tamil / English 
and Maths / Arithmetics / Commercial Arithmetics 
and a pass in English Language, in not more than 
two sittings and,
 ii. Being an officer with 05 years of satisfactory service 
in a Local Government Institution of Central Prov-
ince in One of under mentioned permanent posts:
  * Trade Shop Administrator 
  *  Trade Fair Administrator 
  * Revenue Overseer
  * Play Ground In charger / Administrator
  * Weekly Fair In charger / Administrator
Satisfactory service means - showing an average perfor -
mance of duties, duly earned salary increments without sus-
pension, deferment or stop and counting a period of service 
without any form of disciplinary actions, other than warning.
05. Examination Fee .- This examination fee will be Rs. 
600. That amount should be credited to the Revenue Head 
20-03- 02 - 13 of the Chief Secretary to the Central Province, 
on or before the closing date of application, paying to any Di-
visional Secretariat office and the receipt obtained in favour 
of your name should be affixed on the relevant cage in the 
application. This examination fee will not be refunded fully 
or partly in any circumstances . (It may be helpful to you 
keeping a photostat copy of the paying in receipt with you.) 
No stamps or money orders accept as examination fee.
06. Method of Application:
 (a) The application should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen application form attached to 
this notification. Application should be prepared 
on A4 paper using both sides of it and completed 
with their own hand writing. Heads 01 to 03 in first 
page, Heads 04 to 08 in second page, Heads 09 to 
12 in the third page and the head 13 should come 
in the fourth page respectively. Application forms 
not complied with the specimen, incomplete appli-
cation forms will be rejected without notification. 
(It may be helpful to you keeping a photostat copy 
of the application with you)
 (b)  Application forms for Open/ Limited Competitive 
Examination should be sent under registered cover 
to reach the Commissioner of Local Government 
Department, of Local Government, Pallakele, Kun-
dasale on or before the 05th day of August, 2016.
 (c)  The words “Open / Competitive Examination for 
the Recruiment to the Post of Revenue Inspector 
Grade III – 2016 ” should be written on the top left  
hand corner of the envelop clearly. The applications 
received after  the closing date will be rejected. The 
candidates who are in the Public service / Provin-
cial Public Service should forward their applica -
tions through the Head of the department / institu-
tion.
 
 (d) incomplete applications in any form will be rejected.  
No allegation that an application has been delayed 
or lost in the post will be considered. it  is not the 
acceptance to appear for the examination.
 (e) The basis which you are applied for Open or limited 
should be written clearly in the application.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2016
914
 (f)  The district applied for column should be clearly 
marked with the code number of your permanent 
residency.
   Kandy-01        Matale-02      Nuwara Eliya-03
 (g) Candidate's signature in the application form and 
in the admission card should have been attested by 
an authorized person. applicants who are already 
in Public Service or Provincial Public Service 
should get their signatures attested by their Heads 
of Departments or by an officer authorized to do 
so on his behalf, other candidates should get their 
signatures attested by anyone of the following : 
i.e.  a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, 
an attorney-at-law, Notary Public, a Principal of 
a Government school, a public officer drawing a 
annual consolidated salary of rs. 240,360 or over, 
a Commissioned Officer in three Armed Forces, an 
officer holding a Gazetted Post in the Police Service.
Note: No documents or copies should attached with the 
application form, except the paid in receipt of the examination 
fee.
 07.   admission to the Examination:
 (a) a dmission cards for the examination will be issued to 
all applicants who duly forwarded their applications 
by the Public Service Commission / Commissioner 
General of Examinations. a candidate should appear 
for the examination in the examination center 
reserved for him. The admission will be not given 
to appear for the examination, who do not forward 
the admission card attested their signature in the 
first day of the examination.
 (b) This Gazette notification carry the rules and 
regulations which were adhered by the candidates.
 (c) issuing of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that he / she has the required 
qualification to sit for the examination.
 (d) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General 
of Examinations for the purpose of conducting 
examinations and they shall be liable to be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by Commissioner 
General of Examinations for violation of these rules 
and regulations.
 08.  Identity of the Candidate : all candidates are required 
to prove their identity at the examination hall for every subject 
appear, to the satisfaction of the supervisor. The following 
documents are accepted for that purpose :
(a)  National identity Card issued by the Commissioner 
General of registration of persons.   
 (b) a  valid passport issued by the department of  
  immigration and Emigration.
 09.  Submission of False Information : 
if it reveals that a candidate has not gained the required 
qualifications to sit for the examination, his / her candidature 
can be cancelled before or during the examination or after 
the examination or at any stage. if it appears that a candidate 
has submitted false information knowingly, he / she will be 
dismissed from service.
10. Testing Method and Syllabus : 
i.  Syllabus for Open Competitive Examination
  
By a written examination with the subjects mentioned below 
and an interview :-
 Subject               Syllabus Time duration Total
   (hour)
 Language Skills This question 1 1/2 100  
   paper is   Marks
   designed the
   candidate's 
   expression,
   understanding 
   ability and 
   simple grammar 
   based on subjects.
 intelligence Test This question  01 100
   paper is designed  Marks
   to examine   
   the candidate's
   numerical ability, 
   logical reasoning 
   and general 
   knowledge based 
   on  subjects  
 
 

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08..07.2016
915
 ii. Syllabus for limited Competitive Examination :
By a written examination with the subjects mentioned below 
and an interview :
 Subject Syllabus Time duration Total
   (hour)
 intelligence This question paper 01 100
 Test  is designed to               Marks 
   examine the    
   candidate's 
   expression, 
   understanding 
   ability, usage of 
   words based 
   on subjects.
 General  This question paper  1 1/2 100
 Knowledge is designed                Marks
   to examine
   the candidate's 
   logical reasoning, 
   analytic thinking 
   and ability to take 
   decisions based on 
   subjects
(b) in this competitive examination a candidate is 
required to obtain at least 40% of marks allocated 
for each subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of the 
total marks to secure a pass. Appointments shall be 
made strictly on the order of the merit in order to fill 
the number of vacancies allocated for the recruitment 
under the competitive examination selecting double 
the amount of vacancies for interview which will 
be conducted in a notified date after the written 
examination. The interview will be conducted only 
for the verification of educational qualifications 
and service records and no marks will be offered to 
interview.
11.  Method of Selection for the Post :
 The recruitment will be made seventy (70%) percentum 
of the vacancies prevail, on the basis of Open Competitive 
Examination results and thirty (30%) percentum on the 
basis of limited Competitive Examination results. after the 
verification of qualifications through an interview based on 
the name list prepared on the priority of merit, the recruitment 
will be made adhering Government policy and terms. in case 
of few persons placed in a same point in the last priority 
marks, considering the highest educational qualifications and 
professional qualifications, the final selection will be made 
through an interview.
 12. The results sheet of the candidates who qualify under 
paragraph 10 (b) will be notified by post by the Public Service 
Commission / Commissioner General of Examination, 
individually or through the official website of the Public 
Service Commission.( www.psc.cp.gov.lk)
 13. The Commissioner of local Government of the Central 
Province reserves himself the right to take decisions with 
regard to any problem arisen, not covered by the terms and 
conditions herein.
 14. if Sinhala/Tamil or English versions of the Gazette 
notification are comparative, the Sinhala versions will be 
accepted.
 B.H.N. Jayawickrama,
 Commissioner of local Government.
department of local Government,
Pallakele, Kundasale.
22
nd day of June, 2016.
   
  
 
(For Office use only)
open/Limited competitive examination for the Recruitment to the Posts of Revenue Inspectors Grade III in the 
Revenue Inspectors Service Prevail in the Local Government Institutions in the central Province - 2016
district and Code Number applied for :
applied for limited or Open :
(Mark Limited - L or Open - O in the relevant cage)
Medium selected : 
(Write the relevant code in the cage as Sinhala - S   Tamil- T    English E)

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2016
916
01.  (i) Name with initials (block letters in English) :———————————.
   (Example : PErEra, a. B. C.)
  (ii) Names denoted by Initials : (In block letters) :———————————.
  (iii) Name in full : (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———————————.
02.  (i) Address to which the Admission Card to be posted : (block letters in English) :————————.
  (ii) Permanent residential address : (in Sinhala/Tamil) :———————————.
  (iii) Official Address : (block letters in English) :———————————.
   (Officers who serve in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should write their official address)
  (iv) district of Permanent residency :———————————.
  (v) divisional Secretariat division :———————————.
  (vi) Period residing in the Central Province: From :————————.
03.  (i) Sex:
   (Mark the relevant cage Male - M  Female - F)
  (ii) National identity Card Number :
  (iii) Civil Status :
   (Mark the relevant cage Married - M  Single - S)
  (iv) Contact telephone number :
  (v) date of Birth : year :———. Month:———. date:———.
  (vi) age as at 05.08.2016 :  y ears :———. Months:———. days:———.
04.  Nationality :———————————.
05.   Educational and Professional Qualifications : 
  (i) G. C. E .(O/l) Examination : y ear:————.  index Number :————. 
 Serial No. Subject   Grade
  
 
  
  
  (ii) G.C.E. (a/l) Examination :  y ear: :————. index Number :————. 
  
Serial No. Subject Grade

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette of the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08..07.2016
917
  (iii) details of degree/diploma Obtained: 
 degree/diploma university/institution Effective date of degree/diploma
06.  Other Educational and Professional Qualifications:————.
07.  (i) Have you ever been convicted for any offence in a Court of law ? yes/No.
  (ii) if yes, give details :————.
08. if the applicant being serving in Public or Provincial Service at present, give details:
  (i) Present post :———————————.
  (ii) Present Grade :———————————.
  (iii) Are you confirmed in the post, give the date of confirmation :——————————.
  (iv) Name and address of service station :———————————.
  (v) Telephone number of your service station:———————————.
09. Have you counted a satisfactory service of 05 years as at the date of closing applications?
 if so, 
 year achievement level Salary increment Earned/No/Suspended
                    
10.   (i) receipt Number and date of the examination fee paid in: ———————.
  (ii) Divisional Secretariat office obtained receipt :———————.
 
Affix the receipt in this cage permanently
11.  declaration of the applicant:
 I, hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. 
according to the terms and conditions of recruitment, i also aware that if any  of the information furnished by me is found 
to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed without any compensation if such 
detection is made after appointment.
 ———————.
 Signature of the applicant.
date :———————.
(Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent posts in the public service at present).

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2016
918
12.   attestation of the applicant's Signature :
  i do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................................... who is submitting this application is personally 
known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence on ................................And the examination fee is duly paid and 
affixed the receipt correctly.
 ———————.
 Signature of the attestor.
Name :———————.
Profession:———————.
date :———————.
(Place the official frank of the Attestor)
(Related to the officers who serve in the Public/Provincial Public Service only)
Certificate of the Head of the Department
13. i, certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss................................................... is serving in this department as a ..................
..........................and foregoing particulars were checked with the personal file/service record by me and found to be correct. 
His/her work and conduct are seems to be satisfactory. All the salary increments were earned in the most immediate 05 years 
and he/she possess all the requirements  for the selection of revenue inspector in Central Province. He/She could/Could not 
be released from the present post held by him/her if selected for the above post.
 ....................................,
 Signature of Head of the department.
date :———————.
Name :———————.
Post :———————.
(Place the official frank)
02-528
PriNTEd  aT  THE  dEParTMENT  OF  GOVErNMENT  PriNTiNG,  Sri  laNKa.