

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
wxl 2084$2 – 2018 wf.daia;= ui 13 jeks i÷od – 2018'08'13
No. 2084/2 – MONDAY, AUGUST 13, 2018
CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Draft of Irrigation Statute of Central Provincial Council No. 05  of  2017
I, M. Rameshwaran, Minister of Agriculture, Minor Irrigations, Animal Production and Development, Agrarian Development,
Inland Fisheries, Hindu Cultural Affairs, Tamil Education and Estate Infrastructure facilities of the Central Provincial Council,
hereby notify that above named Draft Statute published below will be presented to the Provincial Council of Central Province
after two weeks. If anyone has suggestions or amendments regarding the provisions of this statute, he/she may submit them
to me during that period.
M. R
AMESHWARAN,
Minister of Agriculture, Minor Irrigations, Animal Production
and Development, Agrarian Development, Inland Fisheries,
Hindu Cultural Affairs, Tamil Education and
Estate Infrastructure facilities of the Central Provincial Council.
Ministry of Agriculture,
Central Province,
Gatambe,
03rd August, 2018.
IRRIGATION  STATUTE  OF  THE  CENTRAL  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  No. 05  OF  2017
A statute to improve agricultural and related products in order for the betterment of farmer community of the Central
Province by allocating provisions for planning, designing, implementing, supervision and maintenance of all irrigation works
in the Central Province other than irrigation schemes relating to rivers running through more than one province or interprovincial
Irrigation and land development schemes, for restoration and maintenance of minor irrigation works, for establishment of the
Department of Irrigation of Central Province, for establishment of Irrigation Management and Development Committees and
Regional Irrigation Management Authorities and for the operation and discharge of their powers and functions and for matters
connected therewith or consequential thereto.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – G28263 – 17 (08/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
BE it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
as follows:–
1. This Statute may be cited as the Central Provincial Irrigation Statute No. 5 of 2017 of the Central
Provincial Council and shall come into force from the date of receipt of assent of the Governor of the
Central Province.
PART I
Establishment of the Central Provincial Department of Irrigation
2. There shall be established the Central Provincial Department of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to as
the “Department”) for the purpose of giving effect to provisions of this Statute.
3. (i) There shall be appointed a Central Provincial Director of Irrigation (hereinafter referred to as
the “Provincial Director”) for the operation and discharge of funcitons and powers of this
Department. That person shall be the Head of the Department, and shall be appointed by the
Governor of Central Province in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987.
(ii) A Class I Officer of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service shall be appointed as the Provincial
Director.
(iii) Provincial Director shall implement the provisions of the Statute under the supervision of
Secretary in charge of the subject of provincial irrigation.
4. There shall be appointed irrigation engineers, and the staff in accordance with the Provincial Councils
Act No. 42 of 1987 as may be required for the purpose of assisting the Provincial Director to exercise
powers and functions of this Statute.
5. Functions and powers of the Provincial Director may be conferred to the officers who are appointed
under Section 4 above.
6. The Minister may establish District offices for the Districts of Kandy, Matale and NuwaraEliya and
may establish Regional Offices with the recommendation of the Secretary to the Ministry as may be
required.
PART II
Functions and Powers of the Department
7. Functions and Powers of the Department shall be as follows:
(i) To plan, design, implement, monitor and maintain irrigation works of the Province.
(ii) To restore and maintain minor irrigations.
(iii) To develop, maintain, repair and restore roads within or providing access to irrigation schemes
coming under (i) and (ii) above.
(iv) To make provisions to discharge the duties and functions ordered to be implemented by this
Statute.
(v) To prepare and publish in the Gazette, a list of all irrigation schemes coming under the scope
of the Department, situated in Divisional Secretariat Divisions of Central Province, by Grama
Niladhari Division.
(vi) To revise the above list as appropriate from time to time.
Short Title and
Date of
Enforcement.
Establishment of
Provincial
Department of
Irrigation.
Provincial
Director of
Irrigation.
Appointment
of other
officers of the
Delegation
of powers
Establishment
of District or
Regional
Offices
Functions
and powers
of the

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
3A
(vii) To establish, register and supervise Irrigation Management and Development Committees
and Regional Irrigation Management Authorities.
(viii) To ensure construction or maintenance of irrigation works listed in (v) above are not carried
out by other institutions without the approval of Provincial Director and to file the design
plans and information of approved projects.
(ix) To identify, demarcate, conserve and protect irrigation reservations and develop catchment
areas of irrigations.
(x) To take legal action against persons who damage or encroach irrigation systems and its
structures or intentionally or maliciously cause to waste water stored in an irrigaiton scheme.
(xi) To take legal action against persons who engage in a commercial activity at an irrigation
scheme or who use irrigation schemes for illegal activities.
(xii) To plan and design to control damages to irrigation systems and agricultural lands due to
natural disasters such as floods and earth slips.
(xiii) to efficently manage water supplied by irrigation schemes and water use for agricultural
practices.
(xiv) To build capacities through increasing public awareness on construction, maintenance, and
protection of irrigation schemes and water management.
(xv) To maintain proper coordination with the relevant institution and officials in order to solve the
issues that arise while implementing programs related to irrigation schemes.
(xvi) To plan, design, construct, maintain, repair and restore any engineering work intended to drain
water from, or to regulate or prevent water inflow or water outflow to any cultivated land or to
protect it from floods.
(xvii) To get the participation of other government or non- government or volunteer organization in
maintenance and construction of irrigation schemes.
(xiii) The Provincial Director and/ or a person who has been authorized by the Provincial Director
may enter at any time and inspect a premise in order to implement the duties of this Statute.
(xix) To provide engineering guidance for subjects coming under the supervision of Secretary to
the Ministry.
(xx) Other Management and administrative authorities required to implement the duties of the
department.
PART III
Establishment of Irrigation Management and Development Committees
8. Powers and Duties of Irrigation Committees
1. There may be established and Irrigation Management and Development Committee (hereinafter
referred to as ‘’Irrigation Committee”) for every tank, anicut, cascading system or irrigation
system or irrigation scheme under the guidance of Provincial Director.
2. Each Irrigation Committee shall be registered at the office of the Provincial Director.
3. Each Irrigation Committee shall have perpetual succession and a common seal.
4. An Irrigation committee shall be a body incorporated with powers to perform all of its duties
and may sue or be sued by its name.
5. An Irrigation Committee shall be able to summon meetings with the participation of occupiers
and land owners engaged in cultivation and implement the decision taken regarding cultivation
for each cultivation season and to take actions to make relevant provisions.
6. The Minister shall impose relevant regulations.
Establishment of
Irrigation
Management
and
Development
Committees
Registration
Authority and
responsibilities

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
9. Membership of Irrigation Committees
1. Any person whose livelihood is agriculture can obtain membership of an Irrigation Committee
established under the clause 8 above if such person is;
(i) a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) not less than eighteen years of age;
(iii) a permanent resident of the area of authority of the Irrigation Committee of which he is
seeks the membership, or has been using irrigation water for agricultural activities for a
period of over two years;
(iv) a benefiting owner cultivation or owner cultivator who obtains water for cultivation or an
occupier.
2. Associate Membership of Irrigation Committees
(i) Officers, organizations and institutions engaged in the field of agriculture; and
(ii) A representative from a relevant agency determined by the Provincial Director; may
obtain the associate membership of above Committee.
10. (i) A General Meeting shall be summoned for appointing officers of the above Committee and the
Provincial Director or an officer authorized by  him shall preside the meeting. The three main
office bearers viz Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer of the Irrigation Committee and Vice-
Chairman, Deputy Secretary and not less than two executive committee members shall be
elected from the members.
(ii) Each Irrigation Committee shall have a constitution stating the composition of the committee,
its fund and provisions for maintenance of the committee. The Secretary to the Ministry may,
from time to time, order the general provisions to be included to the Constitution on the
recommendation of the Provincial Director. The regulations required for this shall be formu-
lated and declared by the Minister.
(iii) The terms of the office of the Irrigation Committee is two years. However a General Meeting
shall be held within 14 days prior to the end of two years and board of officers shall be elected.
A member cannot be appointed to the same main position for two consecutive terms. The term
of the office of existing office bearers come to an end with the appointment of new office
bearers.
(iv) Provincial Director may dismiss any person who is found guilty based on the findings of an
inquiry for any financial misconduct or financial fraud. A person removed such cannot be
appointed for a position for a period of five years.
(v) An appeal can be forwarded to Secretary to Ministry related to 10 (iv) above within 14 days.
The decision of Secretary to the Ministry shall be final and decisive.
11. (i) Every Irrigation Committee may maintain a Fund. The account of Fund shall be maintained in a
state bank approved by the General Bank of Sri Lanka.
(ii) These accounts of the Committee shall be audited in the same manner as is adopted to audit
accounts of the State Corporations as provided for under Article 154 of the Constitution.
(iii) Irrigation Committees have the power to enter into agreements subject to the restrictions
already imposed or to be imposed in future.
(iv) An Irrigation Committee will be under the supervision of Secretary to the Ministry or Provincial
Director and Secretary to the Ministry or Officers authorized by the Provincial Director.
Membership and
Associate
Membership of
the Committee
Officers and
Constitution
Term of office
Committee Fund
Auditing of
accounts
Enter into
Agreements

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
5A
12. Each Irrigation Committee shall, within the area of its authority;
(i) inspect whether work items of development projects implemented are properly executed and
report to relevant officers of the Department.
(ii) obtain contribution of farmers for the success of development projects.
(iii) take actions to maintain irrigation schemes effectively during and beyond the maintenance
period of development project.
(iv) encourage and expand cultivation of paddy or other crops in agriculture lands or paddy lands.
(v) Perform traditional customs and conventions relevant to cultivation.
(vi) ensure agricultural activities are carried out on par with the decisions taken at occupiers and
owner cultivators meetings.
(vii) efficiently manage water from irrigation schemes and water used for agricultural use.
(viii) take steps to conserve soil by protecting crops from insects and diseases.
(ix) take steps to order to cut and remove branches of trees and thicket of lands adjacent to any
paddy field and canal and to cut and remove any thicket that interferes to the growth of crops
cultivated in a paddy field or land.
(x) summon meetings of owner cultivators and occupiers for the purpose of formulating regulations
relevant to development of collective agricultural activities in lands or agricultural lands within
an irrigation scheme.
(xi) inform the relevant officers about obstructions and damages made or being made to irrigation
schemes and of floods and other disasters.
13. Appointment of Irrigation Representative.
1. An Irrigation Representative shall be elected on the consent of majority of members at the time
of appointing the Irrigation Committee. The Irrigation Representative may even be the chairman,
secretary or a member of the executive committee.
2. Unless removed from office as a result of
(i) a letter of resignation forwarded to provincial Director, or;
(ii) on the grounds of findings of an inquiry conducted by the Director or by any other officer
duly authorized by him on chargers of inefficiency or misconduct ;
(iii) The Irrigation Representative will hold the officer for a period of two years or a period
specified by the constitution from the date of appointment.
3. Role of the Irrigation Representative
(i) to prepare a register of paddy lands in the tract with the assistance of other officers of the
committee.
(ii) to allocated extents of the main bund, main distribution canal, the tank bund and spillway
to each owner or occupier for cleaning and maintenance to be in proportionate with the
extent of paddy lands belonging to him in the register of paddy lands. In the case of a land
cultivated by an occupier, the name of owner of the land shall be indicated in this register.
Role of the
Committee
Appointment of
Irrigation
Representative
Resignation from
Irrigation
Committee
Role of
Irrigation
Representative
Preparation of
Registar of
Paddy Lands

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
Demarcation of
Portion
Emolument
Establishment of
Regional
Irrigation
Management
Authorities.
Term of office
(iii) The portion allocated to each owner or occupier shall be demarcated by him using a
lasting method made of timber with heartwood, cement or stones, such that a part of each
item buried in the ground to mark the borders is visible above the ground.
(iv) to cause the removal of thorny bushes, jungle and antills in the portion so allocateda and
demarcated and filling with earth the eroded parts of the bund prior to the commencement
of each cultivation season. In addition it should be legal to inform the owners and occu-
piers and to cause maintenance of  their portions during a cultivation season if the
Irrigation Committee decides that particular irrigation scheme needs maintenance.
(v) The Irrigation Committee shall cause to be cleaned any portion  allotted to any owner or
occupier who does not properly clean the portion allotted to him in terms of sub section
13.3. iii, and shall notify such person to pay the cost incurred.
(i) if the relevant owner or occupier fails to pay the said amount within 21 days from the
date of receipt  of the notice, he shall be an offender under the provisions of this
Statute.
(ii) When an offence has been committed under the clause i above, Irrigation Committee
shall recover the monies as a fine by a request to the Magistrate and this amount
shall be credited to the Committee Fund.
(vi) to protect irrigations, to report on those who damage irrigation works to the Provincial
Director, to assist to bring any such person before the court, to preserve water issued
from reservoirs and irrigation works, to operate water management activities in accor-
dance with time tables of agricultural plans,
14. Every owner cultivator, occupier or tenant cultivator shall  pay an emolument to the Irrigation
Representative for the above services with part of their harvest or an amount of money determined
by the General Assembly. Failure to pay the emolument is an offence under this Statute.
PART IV
Establishment of Regional Irrigation Management Authorities
15. Establishment of Regional Irrigation Management Authorities.
1. (i) Each Divisional Secretariat division of the Central Province may have a Regional Irrigation
Management Authority ( hereinafter referred to as ‘’ Regional Authority”) with the
Integration of all Irrigation Committees of that Divisional Secretariat division. The Regional
Authority shall  comprise the  members selected from registered Irrigation Committees
within its  Divisional Secretariat Division.
(ii) A General Meeting, presided by the Provincial Director or an officer authorised by him,
shall be summoned to appoint officers of the Regional Authority. The three main office
bearers - chairman, secretary and the treasurer - and not less than four executive committee
members  shall be  elected from the members of the committee.
(iii) Every Regional Authority must have a  Constitution stating the composition, Fund and
the provisions required to conduct the Regional Authority, The Secretary to the Ministry
may, from time to time, order the general provisions to be included in the Constitution.
The Minister shall formulate and declare regulations required for this.
(iv) The term of office of  the Regional Authority is two years from the date of appointment.
However a General Meeting shall be held within 14 days prior to the end of two years and

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
7A
board  of officers shall be elected. A member cannot be appointed to the same main
position for two consecutive terms. The term of the office of existing office bearers come
to an end with the appointment of new office bearers.
(v) Provincial Director may dismiss any person who is found guilty based on the findings of
an inquiry for anay financial misconduct or financial fraud. A person removed such can-
not be appointed for a position for a period of five years.
(vi) An appeal can be forwarded to Secretary to Ministry related to 15. v above within 14 days.
The decision  of Secretary to the  Ministry shall be final and decisive.
2. Every Regional Authority appointed under 15.1 shall register at the office of  the Provincial
Director.
3. Every Regional Authority shall have a perpetual succession and a common seal.
4. An Irrigation Committee shall be a body incorporated with powers to perform all of its duties
and may sue or be sued by its name.
16. Every RegionalAuthority, within its area of authority;
(i) three main office bearers shall represent the regional agriculture committee.
(ii) shall work towards improving the inter- relationships among Irrigation Committees.
(iii) shall conserve irrigation works.
(iv) shall determine priorities in restoration and development activities.
(v) shall protect the relevant irrigation reservations and develop and conserve catchment areas.
(vi) shall assist in developing high lands in the close proximity to every irrigation work.
(vii) to assist in demarcating  and preserving components of irrigation works as required by rules
and regulations.
17. (i) Every Regional Authority may maintain a fund under the provisions of the Constitution. An
account shall be maintained in respect of  the Fund in a State Bank approved by the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The accounts of the Authority shall be audited in the same manner as is adopted to audit
accounts of the State Corporations as provided for under Article 154 of the Constitution.
(iii) Every Regional  Authority has the power to enter into agreements subject to the restrictions
already imposed or to be imposed in future.
(iv) A Regional Authority will be under the supervision of Secretary to the Ministry or Provincial
Director and Secretary to the Ministry or Officers authorised by the Provincial Director.
18. The Minister may formulate regulations in terms of  other matters and procedures related to Irrigation
Committees and Regional Authorities established under sections 8 and 15.
Authority and
Responsibilities
Fund
Auditing
Enter into
Agreement
Formulating
Regulations

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
PART V
Offences and Punishments
19. 1. Any person who;
(i) blocks;
(ii) obstructs;
(iii) encroaches the land;
(iv) causes to be blocked or encroached upon;
(v) damage or causes to be damaged;
(vi) wastes conserved water wilfully or maliciously;
(vii) cultivates or puts up unauthorised erections within an irrigation or irrigation reservation;
(viii) moves or causes to be moved earth or sand  from connected areas;
(ix) dumps in the connected areas earth, sand, gravel, metal or similar matter from outside for
a purpose  of  paddy cultivation;
(x) dumps or allows dumping of garbage or allows the folw any waste or dirty matter;
(xi) damages or causes damages using animals, vehicles or, machinary; any irrigation scheme,
watercourse, bank, tank, bund, access to any tank, anicut or irrigation scheme, reservation
of an irrigation scheme, sluice, thawulla, stream, brook, water reservation, irrigation
reservation, agricultural road, streamlet, river, anicut, an erection in an irrigation or a
cascading system;
(xii) aids or supports to  commit the above;
without the prior permission of the director, shall be an offender for an offence stipulated
under this statute.
2. Digging, constructing and maintaining a well for agricultural purposes in any identified irrigation
system shall be an offence under this Statute unless it is done subject to the conditions laid
down by the Provincial Director.
3. It shall be an offence under this Statute to act against any decisions made at Irrigation Committee
meetings on agricultural activities.
20. Where the Provincial Director observes that any person enagages in an activity by contravening to
provisions of Section 19, a substantial order shall be issued prompty by the Provincial Director
according to the Schedule 1 directing to
(i) rectify the relevant offence,
(ii) restrain from continuing,
(iii) bring back the relevant work to normal within a  period of minimum 7 days and maximum 14 days.
21. (i) When any person commits a breach of the order of the Section 20, the Provincial Director shall
have the power to complain by a written notice to the Magistrate Court having jurisdiction.
(ii) Where a written notice under Sub- Section 21 i has been received by the Magistrate, and the
aforesaid person is convicted after a summary trial before the Magistrate, to direct him to pay a
fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two  years
or to both such fine and imprisonment. The expenses to rectify the consequences of his actions
shall be charged from the convict (s). The report of the Director of such expense shall be a
decisive evidence for that lawsuit.
(iii) The Magistrate Court shall have the power to oder the convict to follow the order issued by the
Director in terms of Section 20.
Damaging
an irrigation
system is an
offence
Issuance of
orders by the
provincial
Director
Judical actions
when orders are
breached.

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
9A
22. Any person who commits a breach of any provision of this Statute or provisions of any regulation
made under it shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute, and where such offence shall not be
imposed a special punishment under this Statute when such person is convited after a summary trial
before the Magistrate, to direct him to pay a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
PART VI
General Provisions
23. The Minister shall have the power to formulate regulations required to discharge the functions and
powers of the Department in terms of implementing the provisions of this Statute.
24. (i) Every regulation formulated by the Minister shall come in to operation on date of publication in
the Gazette or on such later date, as may be speified in the regulation.
(ii) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Council for approval,
immediately after or within a month after its publication in the Gazette. Any regulation failing to
obtain approval thus shall be considered as repealed as from the date of its disapproval, but
without prejudice to any such executed there under, and that shall be published in the Gazette.
Every regulation approved by the Provincial Council shall be published in the Gazette.
(iii) After the approval of regulation made under this Charter by the Provincial Council, such
regulations shall have the same force and effect as if they were contained in this Statute.
(iv) If any department, public coporation, person or board of persons intends to restore, develop, or
preserve any type of irrigation scheme belonging to a irrigation scheme published in Gazette as
per 7.v above, the written permission of Provincial Director shall be obtained.
PART VII
Transitional Provisions
25. The person who has been appointed as the Provincial Director of the Provincial Department of
Irrigation and Officers who have been appointed to other posts before the prescribed date shall be
considered as the employees of the Provincial Department of Irrigation subjected to rules and
conditions which are not less advantageous than the rules and conditions of this Statute.
26. (i) All assts, responsibilities, all debt liabilities, legal actions which have existed with the Provincial
Department of Irrigation that has come in to operation since before the prescribed date and all
contract agreements entered with the said Department shall be considered as the assets,
responsibilities, debt liabilities, legal actions, and contract agreements which have existed under
the Department that has been established under this Statute.
(ii) All assets, responsibilities, all debt liabilities, legal action which have existed with three District
Officers in Kandy, Matale, and Nuwaraeliya those have come into operation before the prescribed
date and all contract agreements entered with District Irrigation Engineers shall be considered
as the assets, responsibilities, debt liabilities, legal actions, and contract agreements which
have existed under the Department that has been established under this Statute.
General
punishment.
Imposing
regulations
related to
Statute.
Provincial
Director and
staff who have
held posts from
before.
Continuance of
assets,
responsibililities
and liabilities

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
PART VIII
Interpritation
27. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires;
‘’irrigation work’’ means irrigation scheme providing water to an agricultural land within the province,
other than irrigation schemes relating to rivers running through more than one province or
interprovincial irrigation and land development schemes;
‘’minor irrigation work’’ means an irrigation scheme that supplies water to agricultural land up to the
extent of two hundred (200) acres;
‘’Province’’ means the Central Province;
‘’Provincial Council’’ means the Central Provincial Council;
‘’Governor’’ means the person who holds the post of Governor of Central Province at present in
terms of the Constitution;
‘’Minister’’ means the Minister who is in-charge of the subject of irrigation of the Central Provincial
Council;
‘’Secretary to Ministry’’ means Secretary to the Ministry to which activities of irrigation schemes of
the Central Provincial Council are delegated to;
‘’Provincial Director’’ means the Central Provincial Director of Irrigation;
‘’Engineer’’ means an engineer appointed to discharge the tasks and duties of the Provincial Irrigation
Department.
‘’construction’’ with reference to any irrigation scheme, includes any improvement or extension of
any irrigation scheme, or the repair or restoration of any abandoned irrigation scheme, or
(subject to the definition of ‘’maintenance’’ hereinafter contained) any action taken for the
protection of any irrigation scheme, or the irrigabe area there under, or of any part of such
system or area;
‘’maintenance’’ with reference to any irrigation scheme, includes any operation for the protection of
any existing irrigation scheme, or the irrigable area there under;
‘’irrigation scheme’’ includes the followings those come under the subject of Provincial Irrigation:-
(i) any tank, cascading system, bund, anicut, stream, channels, field channel, or watercourse
comprised in or incidental or ancillary to an irrigation scheme or;
(ii) any structure, road, bridge, sluice, gate, or other engineering work comprised in or incidental
or ancillary to construction or maintenance of irrigation scheme or;
(iii) any structure, bund, sluice, or other engineering work erected for the purpose of protecting
any farming area in any cultivated area from floods or any other disasters.

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
11A
‘’water course’’ includes any river, tributary, or oya, or ela, or natural ela, or ela built to run off water
time to time, or water run off tributary or waterway or branch of such tributary, and area extending
towards the land from the two banks of the said water course to a length equal to the length
between the centre and the bank of such water course.
‘’Paddy land’’ means land which is cultivated with paddy or is prepared for the cultivation of paddy
or which, having at any time previously been cultivated with paddy, is suitable for the cultivation
of paddy, and includes such other land adjoining or appertaining to it as may be used by the
cultivator for a threshing floor or for constructing his dwelling house, but does not include any
land which is used for any purpose other than cultivation or which has been determined by the
Commissioner of Agrarian Services as a non-paddy land.
‘’occupier’’ shall mean the person for the time being entitled to use and occupation of agricultural
land by virtue of his being the lessee or usufructuary mortgagee and shall include  persons in
use and occupation of agricultural lands alienated under the Land Development Ordinance,
State Land Ordinance or any other enactment, and includes a tenant cultivator.
‘’cascading system or an irrigation system’’ means a region where there are feeding areas, reservations,
canals, streams, paddy fields with all irrigations and also a tank which, before connecting with
a river or oya at the end, collects water originated from a specific area with slopes and flowing
in one direction and overflowing with excessive rains;
‘’emolument’’ means share of harvest given by other farmers on their mutual consent to the irrigation
representative for his effort and responsibility put into proper maintanance of the respective
irrigations including the paddy fields and proper conductance of cultivation season in addition
to the responsibility undertaken by the him in planning and implementation of cultivation of his
paddy field as an owner cultivator or tenant cultivator.
‘’Portion’’ means the portion of main bund and main distribution canal allotted to a farmer in
proportionate to the number of farmers who cultivate with the water from an irrigation scheme
and extent of his land indicated in the register of paddy lands.
‘’Irrigation reservation’’ means the strip of land left undisturbed to be used for the protection,
preservation, maintenance or development of a tank, anicut, water course, or drainage canal.
viz.
for a tank or an anicut - 10 meters from maximum water level,
for an irrigation canal - 05 meters from maximum water level of the bank  where the width of
the bottom of the canal is less than 03 meters, or
10 meters from maximum water level of the bank in case width of the
bottom of the canal is more than or equal to 03 meters.
Words importing one gender shall include all genders.
28. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts of this Statute the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
In an
inconsistency
Sinhala text shall
prevail

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2018'08'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2018
SCHEDULE 01
Form A
I ……………………………………  Director of Irrigation, according to the powers vested in me by the Sections...... of the Central
Provincial Irrigation Statute No. 05 if 2017, having the opinion that you, .…………………………… , have committed and /  or
cause more close to be committed the offence described hereunder;
hereby order you to act immediately according to
and/ or  to prevent from acting / further continuing according to
and / or to restore the offencive action committed by you within the period …………………………………
In case of your failure to act according to the above order, legal action being taken against you according to the powers
delegated to me in terms of the Section 20 of the Irrigation Statute.
Provincial Director of Irrigation, Date: ………………………………
Central Province.
08 – 949
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.