

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1797
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"032 – 2017 wf.daia;= ui 11 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'08'11
No. 2,032 –  fRiday ,  august  11, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st august, 2017 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th august, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer (Acting)
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1795-B 81196- 5,403 (08/2017)
N. B.–   (i) twentieth amendment to the constitution Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 28, 2017.
 (ii) Provincial councils Elections (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 28, 2017.
 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1796
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1797
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
The Efficiency Bar Examination for the 
Officers in Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ 
Service – 2017
it is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Officers in Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service 
– 2017 as per the service Minute No. 1885/31 dated 
22.10.2014 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service will be 
held in colombo in the month of december 2017.
02. the syllabus and the other Provisions that are 
applicable to the examination have been published in the 
Gazette extraordinary No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014 
of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka. the 
said syllabus and the other relevant Provisions have been 
mentioned below for the convenience of the candidates.
(a) Procedure of the examination.-    the subjects 
of the Efficiency Bar Examination are mentioned 
below :
 (i) subject No. 01 – school administration and 
supervision: -100 Marks – 03 hours
 (ii) subject No. 02 – school Planning :- 100 
Marks – 03 hours 
 (iii) subject No. 03 -  New trends and practices of 
Education: -100 Marks - 03 hours
Syllabus: - 
 (i) School Administration and Supervision : 
  Questions have been included to examine the 
candidate’s knowledge and the comprehension 
relating to the role of a Principal for good 
governance of a school. it is expected to 
evaluate the candidate’s knowledge on the 
fields of school management methodologies, 
preparation of timetables, delegation of 
responsibilities, community participation for 
school development, school based management, 
school based teacher development, teachers’ 
welfare, student benevolent school concept, 
student centered education.
 (ii) School Planning :
  Questions are included to examine the 
knowledge of candidate and the comprehension 
relating to the role of a Principal in a school 
as a pioneer of the development. it is 
expected to evaluate the knowledge on school 
management Boards, vision and mission of 
school. Preparation of school information base, 
corporate Plans, long term and short term plans, 
annual implementation plans, planning of 
school networks and resources contribution of 
the school towards the divisional development.
 (iii) New Trends and Practices of education :
  it is expected to evaluate the knowledge of 
candidate on the subject matters such as new 
concept on learning and teaching, logical 
thinking, equality in education, non-formal 
education, adult education, lifelong education, 
competency based education, Education for 
living and student counselling and professional 
guidance. 
03. a candidate should obtain minimum of 40 % or 
higher marks for each paper that he/she is applying for in 
order to getting through the examination. arrangements 
will be made by the department of Examinations, sri Lanka 
to send the results personally to all the applicants, who sat 
the examination or to publish the results in the website 
of www.results.exams.gov.lk of sri Lanka department of 
Examinations. 
04. Language Medium of the examination: - sinhala 
and tamil (candidates are not permitted to later change the 
language medium applied for the Examination.)
05. if it is revealed that any candidate is sitting the 
Examination in a language, through which he/she is not 
entitled to sit the Examination, his/her candidature will be 
cancelled.
 5.1  the Result sheet including the results of all 
the candidates sat the Examination will be 
provided to the secretary of the Ministry 
of Education. Personal result sheets for 
candidates sat the Examination will not 
be issued by the commissioner general of 
Examinations. 
06. in accordance with the following format, the 
application should be prepared in the way that numbers 01 
to 06 should appear on the first page while the rest should 
appear on the second page and information related to the 
application should be clearly completed in their own hand 
writing. applications that are not in conformity with the 
specimen application and applications, where information 
has been stated incompletely are rejected without notice.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1798
It is notified that keeping a photocopy of the perfected 
application and the receipt related to the Examination 
fee will be beneficial. Further, candidate should inquire 
whether the perfected application is in conformity with 
the specimen application mentioned in the Notification of 
the Examination.it is further informed that the application 
will be rejected if it is not in conformity with the specimen 
application. it is informed that it is required to indicate 
the title of the Examination appearing on the head should 
be mentioned in English Language in applications that 
are submitted in sinhala in addition to sinhala language 
or English Language in applications that are submitted in 
tamil in addition to tamil Language in the preparation of 
such applications.
(Punishment for the provision of false information: - 
accurate information should be carefully provided by a 
Candidate in filing the application. The candidature can 
be cancelled in any occasion prior to the Examination or 
during the examination and after the examination if it is 
revealed that a candidate is not eligible in terms of the 
Rules and Regulations of this Examination.)
07. the Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner general of Examinations and candidates 
are bound to adhere by the Rules and Regulations that 
are imposed by him for the conduct of the Examination. 
the Rules and Regulations for the Examination have been 
published at the end of this Notification.
08. applications should be sent by the Registered 
Post through divisional director of Education/Zonal 
director of Education or additional Provincial director of 
Education/Provincial director of Education or through the 
Head of your institution to reach commissioner general 
of Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, sri Lanka, Post 
Box 1503, colombo on or before 12th september 2017. 
applications that are sent after this date shall be rejected. 
09. With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification 
have applied for the Examination, admissions shall be 
issued by the commissioner general of Examinations 
to the candidates, who have submitted duly perfected 
applications and if it is applicable, along with the receipt 
issued after paying the Examination fee on or before the 
closing date of applications.A newspaper notification 
on the issuance of admissions shall be published by the 
department of Examinations immediately after issuing 
admissions to candidates. a candidate, who does not 
receive his/her admission two or three days after publishing 
the notification, should inform the Department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka, as indicated in the advertisement. 
full name, address, National identity card Number of the 
candidate and the title of the Examination, for which the 
candidate has applied for should be indicated in notifying 
the department. if the candidate resides outside colombo, 
it will be effective to fax a request letter along with such 
details of the candidate including a fax Number of the 
candidate to receive a copy of the admission via fax, to 
the Fax No. mentioned in the Notification. It will be useful 
to be in preparedness to produce a copy of the application 
that was kept by candidate in order to substantiate the 
candidateship of the applicant, copy of the receipt obtained 
if payment of examination fees is applicable and the receipt 
issued for sending the application in registered post when 
making inquiries from the department of Examinations. 
issuance of an admission to a candidate should not be 
considered as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled 
qualifications to sit the Examination.
10.  (i) signature of the candidate both in the 
application and the admission issued for the 
Examination should have been certified by the 
Head of the Institution or an Officer authorized 
by the Head of the institution. a candidate 
should sit the Examination at the examination 
hall prescribed for him/her under the prescribed 
index No. and should hand over the admission, 
in which his/her signature has been attested, to 
the Supervisor of the Examination on the first 
day of the Examination. a candidate, who does 
not submit his/her admission, is not permitted 
to sit the Examination. 
      (ii)  complaints (submitted later) of candidates, who 
fail to fulfil the requirements mentioned in the 
para 08 above, will not be entertained.
11. it is the responsibility of the candidates to submit 
evidences for substantiating the identity of the candidate 
sat the Examination Hall :
 (i) Valid National identity card issued by the 
department for Registration of Persons or,
 (ii) Valid Passport will only be accepted for that 
purpose,
  12.  examination Fees: -
 (a)  fees charged for this Examination will not be 
refunded under any circumstances and it is not 
allowed to transfer the fees as a fee for another 
examination.
 (b)  fees will not be charged for the entire 
Examination or part thereof in the first sitting.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1799
 (c)  the fees charged subsequently for each sitting 
has been mentioned below :
                   for the full Examination            :Rs. 500
                   for one subject                          :Rs. 250
the receipt obtained by paying this Examination 
fee to any Post Office of the Island to be credited to the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner general of 
Examinations should be affixed firmly on the specified place 
of the application.It will be beneficial for the candidate to 
retain a photocopy of the receipt.further, money orders or 
stamps will not be entertained for the Examination fee.
13. candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner general of Examinations 
on the conduct of Examinations and releasing of results. 
it is informed that candidate is liable to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner general of Examinations 
in case such rules and regulations are violated by the 
candidate. 
14. in case any inconsistency prevails among language 
texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the notification in the sinhala medium 
shall prevail in such an instance.
15. further, the secretary of Education reserves the 
right of deciding any matter, which is not covered by this 
notification.
 
Sunil HettiaracHcHi,
 secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
at the Ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, Pelawatte,
2017.
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN
Y%S ,xld úÿy,am;s fiajfha 2 jeks mka;sfha ks,OdÍka 
i|yd jk ld¾hCIu;d lvbï úNd.h -  2017
efficiency Bar examination for officerS in claSS 2 in 
Sri lanka PrinciPalS’ Service –2017
(Please submit to reach the commissioner general of 
Examinations, organizations and foreign Examination 
Branch, department of Examinations, sri Lanka, 
P.B.1503, colombo through divisional or Zonal director 
of Education/additional Provincial director of Education/
Provincial director of Education. the title of the 
Examination should be mentioned in the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope.)   
01. Language Medium of sitting the Examination  :
 (state the relevant Number inside the cage) 
 sinhala  - 2
 t amil  - 3
02.  (i) Name in full (in English Block capitals) :–––––.
    (eg.: HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN  
 KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa)
  (ii) Name by indicating the Last name at the 
beginning and initials of the other names at the 
end (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––.
   (eg.: guNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K.)
  (iii) Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
03.   address:
  (i) Private address :–––––––––.
  (ii) Official :–––––––––.
  (iii)  address to which the admission should be sent 
:–––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals):
  (iv)  Telephone No:  (Official) :–––––––––.
04.  (i) Class/Grade in the Principals’ Service :–––––––.
  (ii) School/Office :–––––––––.
     (iii) Provincial department of Education/ Zonal 
Office of Education :–––––––––.
05.  (i) National identity card Number :
  (ii)  date of Birth:
 y ear Month date
  (iii)  sex:  Male  - 0
                        female - 1   
   (indicate the relevant number inside the cage)
06. subjects applied for with the subject Number  
mentioned under para 02 (a) of the Gazette Notification.
 subject No. 01 – school administration
    and supervision
 subject No. 02 – school Planning
 subject No. 03 – New trends and 
   practices in Education  
 Write the relevant subject number/ numbers inside the 
cages

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1800
07. The Officers, who have passed the Subject of School 
administration and supervision in the Efficiency Bar 
Examination conducted previously in accordance with 
the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service Minute of  No. 1086/26 
dated 02.07.1999 are exempted from the requirement 
of passing the subject of school administration and 
supervision in this 2
nd Efficiency Bar Examination as 
per the circular No. 33/2014 issued by the Ministry of 
Education. if you have passed the subject, indicate the 
year, Pass obtained and the medium
Subject Year  Pass
obtained Medium
school administration 
and supervision
08. Examination fees : 
 (i)  Post Office/ Sub Post Office, to which examination 
fees have been paid :––––––––––.
 (ii)  amount Paid :––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of making the Payment :––––––––––.
 (iv)  Receipt Number :––––––––––.
Firmly affix the receipt here from an edge of it 
(it may be useful to keep a copy of the 
receipt with you.)
09. i do hereby declare that the aforementioned information 
is accurate. further, i do agree with the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations on the conduct of the Examination and 
on releasing results. further, i do hereby declare that 
i am subject to the Rules and Regulations imposed 
by the commissioner general of Examinations on 
conducting the Examination and on releasing results.
                           –––––––––––––––,
                                      signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––.
10. commissioner general of Examinations :
i do certify that the aforementioned candidate is an 
officer of my Division/Zone/Province. Further, I do 
certify that the candidate is exempted from paying the 
Examination Fees/Candidate has affixed the receipt issued 
after paying the Examination fess accurately.  
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of divisional or Zonal director  
 of Education/additional Provincial director 
 of Education/ Provincial director of Education.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Official Frank) 
(Please delete the words that are not applicable) 
08-436/1
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION 
The Efficiency Bar Examination for the 
Officers in Class 3 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ 
Service – 2017
it is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Officers in Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service – 
2017 will be held in colombo in the month of december in 
2017 as per the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Principals’ 
service No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014.
02. the syllabus and the other Provisions that are 
applicable to the examination have been published in the 
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1885/31 dated 22.10.2014 
of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka. the 
said syllabus and the other relevant Provisions have been 
mentioned below for the convenience of the candidates. 
 (a) examination Procedure.– the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examination are mentioned 
below :–
 (i) subject No. 01 – Provisions of the 
Establishments code and the Procedural 
rules of the Public service commission 
         100 Marks – 02 hours
 (ii) subject No. 02 – financial administration 
in schools and financial Regulations 
           100 marks – 02 hours 
Syllabus : - 
 (i) Provisions of the Establishments code and 
the Procedural rules of the Public service 
commission – Knowledge in the chapters Vii, 
Viii, iX, X, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, 
XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1801
XLVii, XLViii  of the Establishments code 
and the Procedural Rules of the Public service 
commission are examined. 
 (ii) financial administration in schools and 
financial Regulations –
  general knowledge on circulars issued on 
Budget Estimates, financial control and 
delegation of financial Responsibility, cash 
receiving, accounting and acceptance, Payments, 
custodianship of Public finance, imprest and 
Bank accounts, Works and services, Boards of 
survey, audit queries, Legers using at the Public 
Offices, Summaries on Revenue and Expenditure, 
Bank Reconciliations, unpaid salaries, Official 
telephones and on the financial Regulations are 
examined.   
03. a candidate should obtain minimum of 40 % or 
higher marks for each paper that he/she is applying for 
in order to getting through the examination. department 
of Examinations of sri Lanka will make arrangements to 
personally send the results to all the applicants, who sat 
the examination or to publish the results in the website 
of www.results.exams.gov.lk of sri Lanka department of 
Examinations. 
04. Language Medium of the Examination: - sinhala 
and tamil (candidates are not permitted to change the 
language medium applied for the Examination later.)
05. in case it is revealed that any candidate is sitting the 
Examination in a language, through which he/she is not 
entitled to sit the Examination, his/her candidature will be 
cancelled.
 5.1  Result sheet including the results of all the 
candidates sat the Examination will be 
provided to the secretary of the Ministry of 
Education. Personal result sheets of candidates 
of the Examination will not be issued by the 
commissioner general of Examinations. 
06. in accordance with the following format, the 
application should be prepared in the way that numbers 01 
to 06 should appear on the first page while the rest should 
appear on the second page and information related to the 
application should be clearly completed in their own hand 
writing. applications that are not in conformity with the 
specimen application and applications, where information 
has been stated incompletely are rejected without notice. 
It is notified that keeping a photocopy of the perfected 
application and the receipt related to the Examination 
fee will be beneficial. Further, candidate should inquire 
whether the perfected application is in conformity with 
the specimen application mentioned in the Notification of 
the Examination. it is further informed that the application 
will be rejected if it is not in conformity with the specimen 
application. it is informed that it is required to indicate 
the title of the Examination appearing on the head should 
be mentioned in English Language in applications that 
are submitted in sinhala in addition to sinhala language 
or English Language in applications that are submitted in 
tamil in addition to tamil Language in the preparation of 
such applications.
(Punishment for the provision of false information: - 
accurate information should be carefully provided by a 
Candidate in filing the application. The candidature can 
be cancelled in any occasion prior to the Examination or 
during the examination and after the examination if it is 
revealed that a candidate is not eligible in terms of the 
Rules and Regulations of this Examination.)
07. the Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner general of Examinations and candidates 
are bound to adhere by the Rules and Regulations that 
are imposed by him for the conduct of the Examination. 
the Rules and Regulations for the Examination have been 
published at the end of this Gazette Notification.
08. applications should be sent by the Registered 
Post through divisional director of Education/Zonal 
director of Education or additional Provincial director of 
Education/Provincial director of Education or through the 
Head of your institution to reach commissioner general 
of Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, sri Lanka, Post 
Box 1503, colombo on or before 12
th September 2017. 
applications that are sent after this date shall be rejected.
09. With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette Notification 
have applied for the Examination, admissions shall be 
issued by the commissioner general of Examinations 
to the candidates, who have submitted duly perfected 
applications and if it is applicable, along with the receipt 
issued after paying the Examination fee on or before the 
closing date of applications. A newspaper notification 
on the issuance of admissions shall be published by the 
department of Examinations immediately after issuing 
admissions to candidates. a candidate, who does not 
receive his/her admission two or three days after publishing 
the notification, should inform the Department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka, as indicated in the advertisement. 
full name, address, National identity card Number of the 
candidate and the title of the Examination, for which the 
candidate has applied for should be indicated in notifying 
the department. if the candidate resides outside colombo, 
it will be effective to fax a request letter along with such 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1802
details of the candidate including a fax Number of the 
candidate to receive a copy of the admission via fax, to 
the Fax No. mentioned in the Notification. It will be useful 
to be in preparedness to produce a copy of the application 
that was kept by candidate in order to substantiate the 
candidateship of the candidate, copy of the receipt 
obtained if payment of examination fees is applicable and 
the receipt issued for sending the application in registered 
post when making inquiries from the department of 
Examinations. issuance of an admission to a candidate 
should not be considered as an acceptance that he/she has 
fulfilled qualifications to sit the Examination.
10. (i) signature of the candidate both in the 
application and the admission issued for the 
Examination should have been certified by the 
Head of the Institution or an Officer authorized 
by the Head of the institution. a candidate 
should sit the Examination at the examination 
hall prescribed for him/her under the prescribed 
index No.  and should hand over the admission, 
in which his/her signature has been attested to 
the supervisor of the Examination on the day 
of the Examination. a candidate, who does not 
submit his /her admission, is not permitted to sit 
the Examination. 
 (ii) complaints (submitted later) of candidates, 
who fail to fulfil the requirements mentioned in 
the para 08 above, will not be entertained.
11. candidates are responsible to substantiate his/her 
identity at the Examination Hall :
 i. Valid National identity card issued by the 
department for Registration of Persons or,
 ii. Valid Passport will only be accepted for this 
purpose.
12. examination Fees : -
 (a)  fees charged for this Examination will not be 
refunded under any circumstances and it is not 
allowed to transfer the fees as a fee for another 
examination.
 (b) fees will not be charged for the entire 
Examination or part thereof in the first sitting.
 (c)  the fees charged subsequently for each sitting 
has been mentioned below :
                   for the full Examination    : Rs. 500
                   for one subject                      : Rs. 250
the receipt obtained by paying this Examination 
fee to any Post Office of the Island to be credited to the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner general of 
Examinations should be affixed firmly on the specified place 
of the application. It will be beneficial for the candidate to 
retain a photocopy of the receipt. further, money orders 
or stamps will not be entertained for the Examination fee.
13. candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner general of Examinations 
on the conduct of Examinations and releasing of results. 
it is informed that candidate is liable to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner general of Examinations 
in case such rules and regulations are violated by the 
candidate. 
14. in case any inconsistency prevails among language 
texts of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the notification in the Sinhala medium 
shall prevail in such an instance.
15. further, the secretary of Education reserves the 
right of deciding any matter, which is not covered by this 
notification.
  Sunil HettiaracHcHi,
  secretary,
  Ministry of Education.
at the Ministry of Education, isurupaya, Pelawatte.
2017.
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN
Y%S ,xld úÿy,am;s fiajfha 3 jeks mka;sfha ks,OdÍka 
i|yd jk ld¾hCIu;d lvbï úNd.h -  2017
efficiency Bar examination for officerS in claSS 3 in 
Sri lanka PrinciPalS’ Service –2017
(Please submit to reach the commissioner general of 
Examinations, organizations and foreign Examination 
Branch, department of Examinations, sri Lanka, 
P.B.1503, colombo through divisional or Zonal director 
of Education/additional Provincial director of Education/
Provincial director of Education. the title of the 
Examination should be mentioned in the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope.)   
01. Language Medium of sitting the Examination  :
 (state the relevant Number inside the cage) 
 sinhala  - 2
 t amil  - 3

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1803
02.  (i) Name in full (in English Block capitals) :–––––.
    (eg.: HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN  
 KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa)
  (ii) Name by indicating the Last name at the 
beginning and initials of the other names at the 
end (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––.
   (eg.: guNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.s.K.)
  (iii) Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
03.   address:
  (i) Private address :–––––––––.
  (ii) Official :–––––––––.
  (iii)  address to which the admission should be sent 
:–––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals):
  (iv)  Telephone No:  (Official) :–––––––––.
04.  (i) Class/Grade in the Principals’ Service :–––––––.
  (ii) School/Office :–––––––––.
     (iii) Provincial department of Education/ Zonal 
Office of Education :–––––––––.
05.  (i) National identity card Number :
  (ii)  date of Birth:
 y ear Month date
  (iii)  sex:  Male  - 0
                        female - 1   
   (Write the relevant number inside the cage)
06. subjects applied for with the subject Number mentioned 
under para 02 (a) of the Gazette Notification.
subject No. 01 – Provisions of the Establishments 
code and the Procedural rules of the Public 
service
subject No. 02 – financial administration in 
schools and financial Regulations
 
 Write the relevant subject number/ numbers inside the 
cages
07. examination Fees : 
 (i)  Post Office/ Sub Post Office, to which 
examinations fees have been paid :––––––––––.
 (ii)  amount Paid :––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of making the Payment :––––––––––.
 (iv)  Receipt Number :––––––––––.
Firmly affix the receipt here from an edge of it 
(it may be useful to keep a copy of the 
receipt with you.)
08. i do hereby declare that the aforementioned information 
is accurate. further, i do agree to abide by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations on conducting the Examination and on 
releasing results.
                           –––––––––––––––,
                                      signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––.
09. Commissioner General of examinations :
i do certify that the aforementioned candidate is an 
officer of my Division/Zone/Province. Further, I do 
certify that the candidate is exempted from paying the 
Examination Fees/Candidate has affixed the receipt issued 
after paying the Examination fess accurately.  
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of divisional or Zonal director  
 of Education/additional Provincial director 
 of Education/ Provincial director of Education.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(Substantiate with the Official Frank) 
(Please delete the words that are not applicable) 
08-436/2
–––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of CENSuS AND STATISTICS
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade I 
Statistical Officers in the Department of Census
and Statistics – 2013(2017)
it is hereby notified that Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Grade I Statistical Officers belongs to 
the post of Statistical Officer in the Department of Census 
and statistics in accordance with the provisions of relevant 
approved recruitment scheme will be held in November, 
2017 by the department of Examinations.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1804
02. (i) this examination will be held by the 
commissioner general of Examinations and 
candidates are bound by the rules and regulations 
stipulated by him in respect of holding this 
examination and issuance of results. the decision 
of the commissioner general of Examinations 
will be the final decision with respect to holding 
the examination and issuing of results.
 (ii) a  set of rules and regulations for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. 
any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations.
03. examination Fees.– candidates can sit for relevant 
subjects of this examination once or separately twice. 
candidates who are sitting for the whole examination or 
one subject for the first time, need not pay any examination 
fees. However, at consequent sittings, candidates are 
required to pay Rs. 500/- for the whole examination and  
Rs. 250/- for each subject. this should be paid at any Post/
Sub Post Office in the island to be credited to Revenue Head 
2003-02-13 of commissioner general of Examinations. 
The receipt should be affixed in the relevant cage. And 
kindly be informed that in addition to examination fees, 
you will not be charged of any extra payment. (it would 
be advisable to keep a photo copy of the receipt). Money 
orders or stamps are not accepted as examination fees and 
under any circumstances, this fee will not be refunded or 
transferred to any other examination.
04. Applications.– application should be in the form 
of the specimen appended to this notification and should 
be prepared on a 'a4' size paper using both sides in such 
a way that headings number 01 to 05 appear on the first 
page and the rest on the second page. it is compulsory 
to indicate the title of the examination appearing the 
application in English language, too, on both sinhala 
and tamil application forms. application form can be 
typewritten but should be filled accurately and legibly by 
the candidate himself in his own handwriting. applications 
prepared thus by the candidate should be sent through the 
respective Head of department by registered post to the 
"commissioner general of Examinations, organization 
and foreign Examination Branch, sri Lanka, Examinations 
department, P. o. Box 1503, colombo" so as to reach on 
or before 11
th september, 2017. the top – left corner of 
the envelope containing the application should clearly 
bear the name of the examination. applications received 
after the closing date and that have not been perfected 
properly will be rejected. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/herself complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice, if not, application will be rejected. (it 
would be advisable to keep a photo copy of the completed 
application form)
05. Identification of Candidates.– candidates are 
required to prove their indentity for each subject they 
are sitting at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents can be submitted to the supervisor :
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner 
of department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a valid Passport.
candidature of any candidate, who fails to submit any 
of the above, will be decided by the commissioner general 
of Examinations and such will be the final decision.
06. the commissioner general of Examinations will be 
issuing admission cards with a copy of the time table for 
the examination to all candidates who have sent in duly 
completed applications. A notification will be published in 
newspapers by the department of Examinations as soon 
as the admission cards are issued to candidates. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
department of Examinations through telephone numbers 
specified in the advertisement. There, the applicant's full 
name, address, National identity card Number and name 
of the examination should be mentioned and it would be 
advisable to keep the copy of the application, photocopy 
of receipt of the paid examination fees, and the receipt 
of the registered letter in hand at the time of calling the 
department of Examinations. in case of applicants who 
are in out of colombo, a letter of request, furnishing a fax 
number can be sent to the department of Examination in 
order to get a copy of the admission card through fax.
06. 1 the post and service station of the candidate, 
at the time he/she applies for the examination 
will be applicable for all matters relating to 
examination and any changes which occur there 
after in the post and service station after sending 
the application will not be considered.
06. 2 candidate's signature in the application form 
and the admission card should be certified by the 
Head of the department or any authorized officer. 
a candidate should sit for the examination at the 
provided examination hall with the appropriate 
examination number and on the examination 
date the admission card with the attested 
signature should be produced to the supervisor 
of the examination hall. any candidate who fails 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1805
to produce his/her admission card will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination.
07. Heads of departments should grant duty leave to 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner general of Examinations enabling 
them to present themselves at the examination. travelling 
expenses will not be paid in this respect.
08. the examination will be held only in sinhala, tamil 
and English medium. Any officer who has been recruited to 
the government service through competitive examination, 
the medium of such examination and any officer who has 
been recruited to government service without competitive 
examination, the medium of the examination of his/her 
which served as an entry qualification, should be selected as 
the medium of this examination. candidates are required to 
sit for all the subjects in one medium and applied medium 
will not be allowed to change later.
09. this examination will be held only in colombo.
10. Scheme of examination. – Relevant examination of 
the above posts consists of following subjects.
        Subject Duration Total
Pass 
marks
1. Office Administration 
and Establishment 
code
02 hours 100 40%
2. financial Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
        Paper Syllabus
I. Office 
administration 
and 
Establishment 
code
chapters: XV , XVi, XXiii, XXiV , 
XXV , XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXiii, 
XLVii, XLViii of Establishment code 
and the amended circulars of above 
the chapters, also should be paid 
attention.
ii. financial 
Regulations
this paper will be prepared based on 
the following chapters of financial 
Regulations.
	chapter Vi - custody of Public 
Money, imprest and Bank 
accounts, safety of Public 
finance, Board of survey, over 
draft, Bank accounts
		(from fR 315 to 396)
	Procurement guide Lines 2006 
- Procurement Procedure under 
goods and works.
Note:- candidates can sit for the above subjects 
separately.
 - if a candidate fails to complete the exam 
successfully within the due period, his/her 
next increment will be subjected to differ.
11. issue of an admission card to a candidate should not 
be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility to sit for 
the examination.
12. the decision of the director general of census and 
Statistics will be final in respect of any matter not provided 
in this Gazette notification.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
sinhala, tamil and English texts in this Gazette notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text.
 dr. a. J. 
SatHaraSingHe,
 director general,
 department of census & statistics.
No. 306/71,
"sankyana Mandiraya",
Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla.
sPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  foRM
Second efficiency Bar examination for grade i 
StatiStical officerS in tHe dePartment of cenSuS and
StatiSticS - 2013 (2017)
(For office use only)
Language Medium of Examination:-
 sinhala - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01.  1.1  full Name (in English Block capitals):–––––––.
    (eg. HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN 
KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2  Write Surname first and initials of other names at 
the end (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––.
   (guNaWaRdHaNa, H. M. s. K)
  1.3  full Name :–––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
   

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1806
02.  2.1  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
  2.2  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  2.3  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
  2.4  telephone number : 
03. National identity card No. :-
04. sex :-
   Male - 0
   female - 1
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. subject / subjects that you appear in this examination.
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
 
06. date of Birth :-
  y ear   Month date
07. current Post :
  7.1  Post :––––––––––––.
  7.2  Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––––.
08.  8.1  Are you sitting the examination for the first time? 
:––––––––––––.
  8.2  if not, value of the paid cash amount :––––––––.
  8.3  Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
  8.4  date :––––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt (If it is relevant)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt)
i, declare that the above particulars are true & correct 
to the best of my knowledge and that i am eligible to 
appear for the examination, in the language medium 
indicated above and that the receipt of paid examination 
fees of Rs. ....................... has been affixed here. Further, 
i agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner general of Examination in relation to 
conduct of this examination and issuing results.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
Note - the applicant should place her/his signature in 
the presence of the relevant Head of department or 
an officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
Attestation of the signature
i, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ......................
.................................. who serves at my department is 
personally known to me and that he/ she placed his / her 
signature in my presence on ................... and receipt of 
paid examination fees has been affixed here.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(Certify by the official rank)
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that,
 1.  the particulars furnished by her/him in above 
chapters have been checked.
 2.  He/she is eligible to sit the examination.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of Head of department and
 Official frank.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
08-360/1
–––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of CENSuS AND STATISTICS 
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade II 
Statistical Officers in the Department of Census 
and Statistics - 2013 (2017)
it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Grade II Statistical Officers belongs to the post of 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1807
Statistical Officer in the Department of Census and 
statistics in accordance with the provisions of relevant 
approved recruitment scheme will be held in November, 
2017 by the department of Examinations.
02. (i) this examination will be held by the 
commissioner general of Examinations 
and candidates are bound by the rules and 
regulations stipulated by him in respect of 
holding this examination and issuance of  
results. the decision of the commissioner 
general of Examinations will be the 
final decision with respect to holding the 
examination and issuing results.
 (ii) a set of rules and regulations for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. 
any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations.
03. examination Fees.– candidates can sit for the whole 
examination or relevant subjects separately. candidates 
who are sitting for this examination or part of it for the 
first time, need not pay any examination fees. However, 
at consequent sittings, candidates are required to pay 
Rs. 500/- for the whole examination and Rs. 250/- for each 
subject. This should be paid at any Post/Sub Post Office 
in the island to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 
of commissioner general of Examinations. the receipt 
should be affixed in the relevant cage. And kindly be 
informed that in addition to examination fees, you will not 
be charged of any extra payment. (it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt.) Money orders or 
stamps are not accepted as examination fees and under any 
circumstances, this fee will not be refunded or transferred 
to any other examination.
04. Applications.– application should be in the form of 
the specimen appended to this notification and should be 
prepared on a 'a4' size paper using both sides in such a way 
that headings number 01 to 05 appear on the first page and 
rest on the second page. it is compulsory to indicate the 
title of the examination appearing the appication in English 
language, too, on both sinhala and tamil application forms. 
Application form can be typewitten but should be filled 
accurately and legibly by the candidate himself in his own 
handwriting. applications prepared thus by the candidate 
should be sent through the respective Head of department 
by registered post to the "commissioner general of 
Examinations, organization and foreign Examination 
Branch, sri Lanka Examinations department, P. o. Box 
1503, colombo" so as to reach him/her on or before 11th 
september 2017. the top - left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should clearly bear the name of 
the examination. applications received after the closing 
date and that have not been perfected properly will be 
rejected. it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form. it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/herself complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice, if not, application will be rejected. (it 
would be advisable to keep a photo copy of the completed 
application.) 
05. Identification of Candidates.– candidates are 
required to prove their identity for each subject they 
are sitting at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents can be submitted to the supervisor :
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
commissioner of department of Registration of 
persons.
 (ii) a  valid Passport
  candidature of any candidate, who fails to 
submit any of the above, will be decided by the 
commissioner general of Examinations and 
such will be the final decision.
06. the commissioner general of Examinations will be 
issuing admission cards with a copy of the time table for 
the examination to all candidates who have sent in duly 
completed applications. the candidates should produce 
the admission card with the attested signature to the 
supervisor of the examination hall. any candidate who 
fails to produce his/her admission card will not be allowed 
to sit for the examination. A notification will be published 
in newspapers by the department of Examinations as 
soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. if 
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
department of Examinations through telephone numbers 
specified in the advertisement. There, the applicant's full 
name, address, National identity card number and name 
of the examination should be mentioned and it would be 
advisable to keep the copy of the application, photocopy 
of receipt of the paid examination fees, and the receipt 
of the registered letter in hand at the time of calling the 
department of Examinations. in case of applicants who are 
in out  of colombo, a letter of request, furnishing a fax 
number can be sent to the department of Examination in 
order to get a copy of the admission card through fax.
06. 1 the post and service station of the candidate, 
at the time he/she applies for the examination 
will be applicable for all matters relating to 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1808
examination and any changes which occur 
thereafter in the post and service station after 
sending the application will not be considered.
06. 2 the candidates should get his/her signature 
certified on the admission card in advance. 
candidate's signature in the application form 
and the admission card should be certified by 
the Head of the department or any authorized 
officer.
07. Head of departments should grant duty leave to 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner general of Examinations enabling 
them to present themselves at the examination. travelling 
expenses will not be paid in this respect.
08. the examination will be held only in sinhala, tamil 
and English medium. Any officer who has been recruited to 
the government service through competitive examination, 
the medium of such examination and any officer who 
has been recruited to the government service without 
competitive examination, the medium of the examination 
of his/her which served as an entry qualification should be 
selected as the medium of this examination. candidates 
are required to sit for all the subjects in one medium and 
applied medium will not be allowed to change later.
09. this examination will be held only in colombo.
10. Scheme of examination. – Relevant examination of 
the above post consists of following subjects.
        Paper Duration Total
Marks
Pass 
Marks
1. Basic statistical 
Methods
02 hours 100 40%
2. Office Administration 
and Establishment code
02 hours 100 40%
3. financial Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
        Paper Syllabus
i. Basic 
statistical 
Methods
data collection & Presentation,  
distribution, Normal distribution,  
hypothesis testing theories and X
2 
testing, Histogram & frequency curve, 
central tendency and Measures of 
dispersions (Mode, Median, Mean, 
Variance, Quartiles and standard 
deviation, Principles of sampling 
techniques, sampling survey, 
sampling Error, Non sampling Error, 
indices, simple co-relation, 
        Paper Syllabus
Linear Regression, Basic statistics 
Knowledge). 
II. Office  
administration 
and 
Establishment 
code
* chapters: ii, iii, iV , V , Viii, Xii, 
Xiii, XiV , XiX of Establishment 
code and also amended circulars 
for above chapters should be 
followed.
iii. financial 
Regulation.
this paper will be prepared based on 
the following chapters of financial 
Regulation 
 
* 1st chapter - income   and 
Expenditure Estimates, consolidated 
fund, annual Estimates, changing 
of annual Estimates 
 (from f. R. 1 to 68)
* iiird chapter - financial 
Management and accountability, 
giving authority for making 
Payments, approval, certifying 
and assigning duties for chief  
Accounting Officers, Accounting 
Officers, Revenue Accounting 
Officers. (From F. R. 124 to 147)
 
Note:-
 - candidates can sit for the above subjects 
separately.
 - if a candidate fails to complete the exam 
successfully within the due period, his/her 
next increment will be subjected to differ.
11. issue of an admission card to a candidate should not 
be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility to sit for 
the examination.
12. the decision of the director general of census and 
Statistics will be final in respect of any matter not provided 
in this Gazette notification.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
sinhala, tamil and English texts in this Gazette notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text.
 dr. a. J. 
SatHaraSingHe,
 director general,
 department of census & statistics.
No. 306/71,
"sankyana Mandiraya",
Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1809
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
firSt efficiency Bar examination for grade ii 
StatiStical officerS in tHe dePartment of cenSuS and
StatiSticS - 2013 (2017)
(For office use only)
Language Medium of Examination:-
 sinhala - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01.  1.1  full Name (in English Block capitals):–––––––.
    (eg. HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN 
KuMaRa guNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2  Write Surname first and initials of other names at 
the end (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––.
   (guNaWaRdHaNa, H. M. s. K)
  1.3  full Name :––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
02.  2.1  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
  2.2  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution :–––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  2.3  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
  2.4  telephone number : 
03. National identity card No:-
04. sex :-
  Male   - 0
  female - 1
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. subjects you appear in this examination.
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
06. date of Birth :-
  y ear   Month date
07. current Post
  7.1  Post :––––––––––––.
  7.2  Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––––.
08.  8.1  Are you sitting the examination for the first time? 
:––––––––––––.
  8.2  if not, value of the paid cash amount :––––––––.
  8.3  Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
  8.4  date :––––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt (If it is relevant)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt)
i declare that the above particulars are true & correct to 
the best of my knowledge and that i am eligible to appear 
for the examination, in the language medium indicated 
above and that the receipt of paid examination fees of              
Rs. ....................... has been affixed here. I agree to abide 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
general of Examination in relation to conduct of this 
examination and issuing results.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
Note.- the applicant should place her/his signature in 
the presence of the relevant Head of department or 
an officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
Attestation of the signature
i, herey certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................
............................ who serves at my office/Department is 
personally known to me and that he/ she placed his / her 
signature in my presence on ................... and receipt of 
paid examination fees has been affixed here.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(Certify of the official rank)

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1810
mINISTRy   Of   hEALTh,   NuTRITION  
AND  INDIGENOuS   mEDICINE
Recruitment to the Pupil Nurses Recruitment 
Training – 2017
aPPLicatioNs are hereby invited from the applicants 
who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the 
sri Lanka Nursing service Minute published in the 
extraordinary Gazette  No. 1,837/8 dated 19.11.2013 of 
the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka and the 
amendments made to it time to time in order to be recruited 
into the pupil nurses training under the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine (Recruitment of the 
male applicants will be carried out under the provisions of 
the Nursing service minute on the basis of the requirement 
that are existed in the institutes under the Ministry). 
Note.– Please note that from the students who applied 
for the student nursing training of 2016 whose name 
are pubilshed as selected on the website www.health.
gov.lk need not reapply in trims of this circular.
01. the total number to be recruited from the island will 
be divided in proportion to the population in each district 
and then the number recruited from each district will be 
decided. 
the number recruited from each district will be divided 
in proportion to the number of applicants who apply from 
the respective district in each year and are eligible after 
the interview and then, the number recruited from the 
respective district in each year will be decided. 
after that, the number recruited in each year will be 
divided in proportion to the number of applicants who 
apply from the Bio science and Physical science subject 
streams in the respective year and are eligible after the 
general interview and then the number recruited from the 
respective district from each subject stream in each year 
will be decided. 
the number of recruits from each subject stream in each 
year will be decided as such and out of that number, 5% 
is for male applicants and 95% is for female applicants. 
selections will be made from the applicants who have 
obtained the highest Z-score from each subject stream in 
the respective district in each year. 
02. there will be full time courses. therefore students 
who are following full time courses in any university or 
under the Ministry of Health Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine or in any other government institute during the 
five days of the week including Saturday morning should 
not apply for this. if anybody so appiles and someone it 
was revealed later he or she will be dismissed from the 
course/post and all the expenses which were incurred by 
the government on behalf of the trainees should be paid 
to the government. if a full time student of the university 
or in another government institute intends to apply the 
following guidelines should be followed. 
 2.1 if you had registered in a university or in any 
other government institute for a full time course 
by the date 31.08.2017 and if you are selected 
for the student nurses training your registration 
for the relevant training or course should be 
cancelled before the date of the registration at the 
Nurses training school. 
 2.2 also if you had not registered in any university 
or for any other course conducted by the Ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
by the date 31.08.2017 if you had registered 
by the date of registration of trainees for the 
student nursing training due to any reason his/her 
registration should also be cancelled before the 
date of registration at the nurses training school. 
 2.3 if the applicant who have registered for a full 
time course under the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine are selected 
for the student Nursing training they will be 
registered for the student Nursing training only 
if they leave the relevant course after paying 
back the bonded sum according to the agreement 
signed relevant to the training at the time and all 
the allowances you have received. 
Note :–
 1. Even though you have fulfilled the conditions 
from 2.1 to 2.3 if you have not obtained sufficient 
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that,
 1.  the particulars furnished by her/him in above 
chapters have been checked.
 2.  He/she is eligible to sit the examination.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of Head of department and
 Official frank
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
08-360/2
–––––––––––––––

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1811
Z-score or if you have not completed any 
conditions mentioned in this however you should 
be aware/informed that you will not be selected 
for this courses. 
 2. you should be further informed that even though 
you have obtained sufficient Z-score and have 
been complete the other conditions mentioned in 
this if you have not mentioned from 2.1 to 2.3 
you will not be selected for these courses. 
03. Educational Qualifications :–
at the g. c. E. (a/L) Examination in 2015 or 2016 : 
 (a) should have passed any 03 subjects from 
Biology, chemistry, agriculture, Physics and 
Mathematics which belong to Bio science 
subject stream in one sitting at the g. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination. (Except common general test and 
general English) ; 
or 
  should have passed any 03 subjects from 
combined Mathematics, chemistry, Physics and 
advanced Mathematics which belong to Physical 
science subject stream in one sitting at the g. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination. (Except common general 
test and general English) ;
and
 (b) should have passed 06 subjects with credit passes 
for sinhala/t amil Language, Mathematics, 
science and English in not more than two sittings 
at the g. c. E. (o/L) Examination. 
04. Other qualifications :–
 (a) should be a sri Lankan citizen.
 (b) should not be below 18 and over 28 years of age 
as at 31.08.2017.
 (c) Height should not be below 4'10" (147.3cm).
 (d) should be unmarried.
 (e) Every candidate should be physically fit to serve 
as a nursing officer in any part of Sri Lanka.
 (f) should be physically fit enough to discharge 
duties assigned to the post. 
 (g) should be excellent in character.
 (h) Both male and female can apply. 
 (i) should have lived in the district from which 
you are applying for a period of three years 
immediately prior to the closing date of 
application which is 24.06.2016 and should have 
fulfilled at least one of the followings to prove 
the residence and the relevant documents should 
be presented at the interview :
 (i) should be resided in that district at least 3 years 
prior to 31.08.2017 (for this the gramaniladari 
certificate signed by the Divisional Secretary 
should be submitted) ;
 (ii) Extracts of electoral lists preceding 3 years 
which were obtained from the district 
Elections Office should be produced. 
05. Method of Application : 
 (a) application should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen given in this notification by 
using both sides of a4 size paper. this should 
be prepared as including the sections from 
No. 01 to No. 09 in page No. 01 and No. 10 
section should be in page No. 02 and page No. 
03 should be contained with the sections from 
No. 11 or No. 13. But, the relevant particulars 
should be mentioned in the cage given on the 
top right hand corner of the application. 
Note.– The qualification mentioned above 
(3) and (4) and other all qualifications 
should be fulfilled by the closing date of 
31.08.2017 in all respects. 
 (b) duly completed applications should be sent on 
or before by the register post to the “director 
(admin. 01), Ministry of Health, nutrition 
and indigenous medicine, suwasiripaya, No. 
385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero 
Mawatha, colombo 10” and on the top left 
corner of the envelope should be mentioned 
as “Recruitment of the Pupil Nurse training in 
2016” and resident district. 
 (c) applicant's signature should be attested 
by an officer in Sri Lanka Administrative 
service/Educational administrative service/
Public accountant service/a  Principle of 
a government school/Justice of the Peace/
Lawyer or by an Officer who is bearing a 
government post and is being paid an annual 
salary not less than Rs. 240,360. 
 (d) Receipt obtained by paying Rs. 300 to the credit 
of the account of "director general of Health 
services - collection of examination fees" No. 
7041318 of the Bank of ceylon, thaprobane 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1812
Branch, should be affixed on cage of the 
application. the examination fees will neither 
funded for due to any reason nor transferred to 
another examination. 
06. incomplete applications, not incompliance with the 
specimen form not fulfilled the basic qualifications, not 
affixed with the receipt of the bank and not registered on or 
before 31.08.2017 will be rejected without any notification 
and will not be acknowledged. 
07. Among the applicants those who have fulfilled 
the above mentioned qualifications will be called for an 
interview based on  a priority list prepared according to the 
Z-score. a general interview will be held by an interview 
board appointed by the secretary of Health Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine and the interview Board will check 
the qualifications mentioned in the Nurse service minute 
and this Gazette Notification and physical fitness. 
Note :
 (a) Based on the available accommodation 
facilities of the nurses training schools and 
the exigencies of service, the secretary of the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine will determine the number of intakes 
for the interview and for the training. 
 (b) None of these provisions can be interpreted or 
construe that all those who are called for the 
interview will be recruited for the training. 
 (c) Details of the applicants who qualified, not 
qualified and not selected after the interview 
will be published in the web site www.health.
gov.lk and will not be informed personally to 
anyone. 
08. Originals and the certified true copies by himself 
of the below mentioned documents should be submitted at 
the interview by the applicant and the documents which are 
submitted after the interview will not be considered : 
 (a) Birth Certificate ; 
 (b) g. c. E. a/L Result sheet and the originals of 
Z-score Result sheet ; 
(c)  g. c. E. o/L Result sheet ;
 (d) National identity card or valid Passport or Valid 
driving license ;
 (e) the original documents in terms of prove the 
residence as per above 4(1) ;
 (f) An affidavit by a Justice of peace in order to prove 
as a bachelor or spinster.
Note.– Certified true copies by himself of the 
certificates mentioned under the above a, b, c, d 
should be sent along with the application. 
09. Training Procedure : 
 (a) selected applicants will be admitted to nurse 
training schools as pupils nurses and three (03) 
years training programme should be followed by 
them ;
 (b) applicants will be admitted to nurse training 
schools subjected to the laws that existed in the 
nursing school. they will be subjected to these 
laws and to the other laws that are implemented 
time to time respectively ;
 (c) if  he/she fails at the scheduled examinations, if he/
she had not being conducted as a well-mannered 
person or if they behave unsatisfactorily or 
if he/she fails to follow the examination and 
leave condition or if any detail was revealed as 
incorrect mentioned in the application form, will 
be terminated from this training without paying 
any compensation at any time of the training. the 
trainers will not be entitled for any leave during 
the training period and equal amount of money 
will be deducted on during the training period 
and equal amount of money will be deducted 
on behalf of the absent days during the training. 
However 80% attendance will be required for 
facing to the examination ; 
 (d) during to the training a monthly allowance will 
be paid to the pupil nurses according to the public 
administration circular 03/2016. 
 
 (e) if anyone left the training during the training,  
dismissed or resigned by the training during the 
training period the all the expenses incurred by 
the government for the training allowances paid 
during the training and amount of the bond should 
be paid by the relevant trainee to the department. 
if not action will be taken to recover this amount 
of money. 
10. Terms and Agreements on unmarried status : 
 (a) all the applicant should be unmarried by the 
date of applications and should also be remained 
as unmarried during the training period. an 
affidavit signed by the Justice of Peace should 
be forwarded to prove the unmarried status at the 
interview ;

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1813
 (b) all the pupil nurses should be signed an agreement 
when they enter the nurses training schools with 
director general of Health services as to agree 
that to complete the training program successfully 
and to serve 10 years period under the Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine or in 
a hospital under the Provincial Health Ministry if 
they considered to be appointed. this period of 
time will be decided by the director general of 
Health service time to time. 
11. Service Conditions :
 (a) all the trainees should be appeared for a Medical 
test prior to the training program ;
 (b) if the government intends to grant permanent 
appointment to the trainee Nurses who complete 
to three years training successfully and pass the 
final examination they will be appointed to the 
vacancy exist in to post of Staff Nurse Officer 
grade iii on to salary scale will be entitled for the 
salary scale Mt 7-2016 in terms of the provisions 
in P. a. circular 3/2016 dated 25.02.2016.
 (c) All the officers in the Nurse Service will be 
subjected to the provisions of Establishment 
code  in the democratic socialist Republic 
of sri Lanka to the implemented laws by the 
Public service commission with regard to the 
government service, to the regulations and 
orders, for the provisions of Nurse service minute 
to the government financial Regulations and to 
the other regulations of the government, to the 
circulars, instructions and to the revisions made 
upon them frequently. 
 (d) the information on Education and other 
qualifications should be filled in the applications 
with full of attention and they should be entered 
correctly. If any certificate mentioned above 
found as incorrect or fraud document the relevant 
appointments will be cancelled and also will be 
dismissed by the training or by the post. such 
incidents will be forwarded criminal investigation 
department to tack legal actions and their names 
will be entered into black list that prevented them 
for re-employing under the government. action 
will be taken to recover the full amount of money 
which incurred by the government for payments 
and other expenses by the government during 
the training period together with relevant surety 
mentioned in the surety bond by him/her. 
 (e) this Ministry is not bound to provide Hostel 
facilities within the training schools for the 
recruited applicants. 
 (f)  during this period no-one is allowed to participate 
in trade union actions or serving attached to private 
services and they do not have any right thereof. 
actions will be taken to dismissed by the training 
or another suitable action according to the rules and 
regulations if such incident is revealed. 
 (g) decision of the secretary to the Ministry of 
Health Nutrition and indigenous Medicine will be 
final and exclusive if any complicated situation is 
arisen on the circumstances that are not covered 
by this Gazette Notification with regard to the 
training programme. the sinhala Language 
sentences will be effective if any differences are 
originated between the sinhala/tamil and English 
sentences under this Gazette Notification. 
  
Janaka SugatHadaSa,
  secretary, 
  Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
  and indigenous Medicine. 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine. 
No. 385, suwasiripaya, 
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10, 
28th July, 2017. 
MiNistRy of HEaLtH, NutRitioN aNd  iNdigENous MEdiciNE 
recruitment of PuPil nurSeS for training – 2017
01. (a) Last Name with initials (in English block letters) :–––––––––.
 (b) full Name (in sinhala/t amil) :–––––––––––.
 (c) full Name (English block letters) :–––––––––––.
02. Postal address (in English) :–––––––––––.
district 
g. c. E. (a/L) 
subject stream 
g. c. E. (a/L) year 
Passed
Medium

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1814
03. (i) Permanent address (in sinhala) :
 (ii) district (in English) :
 (iii) telephone No. :
     Mobile : 
     Residential :
04. date of Birth : 
 y ear :––––––––, Month :––––––––, date :––––––––.
05. age as at 31.08.2017 : 
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
06. gender :  Male
 (Put “” in the appropriate Box)  female
07. Whether you are a sri Lankan citizen :  y es
 (Put “” in the appropriate Box)  No
08. National identity card No. : 
09.  Height : 
 (a) feet :–––––––––.  inches :–––––––––.  
 (b) cm :––––––––.
10. (a)  g. c. E. a/L Examination  : 
  (i) year :–––––––––––.  
  (ii) index No. :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Z-score :–––––––––––. 
 (iv) stream  :–––––––––––.
 Subject Grade For office use only Subject Grade For office use only 
   1. 3.
   2. 4.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.08.2017
1815
 (b) g. c. E. o/L Examination : 
   First Attempt : 
    (i)  Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
    (ii)  index No. :–––––––––––.
 Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
 01. 07.
 02. 08.
 03. 09.
 04. 10.
 05. 11.
 06. 12.
  Second Attempt : 
    (iii)  Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
    (iv)  index No. :–––––––––––.
 Subject Grade For office use Subject Grade For office use
  01. sinhala  07.
  02. English  08.
  03. Maths  09.
  04. science  10.
  05.  11.
  06.  12.
11. Have you ever been convicted in any court for any offence :  y es
           No
 if “yes” provide details :––––––––––.
12.  Declaration/Certification of the Applicant : 
  (a) i hereby state respectively that the information provided in the application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. 
  (b) i know that i will be dismissed if this statement proved incorrect/false re vealed later. 
Affix the receipt of the bank obtained by paying Rs. 300 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
13. Certification of the Signature of the Applicant : 
i hereby certify that i personally know Mr./Mrs./Miss ................... who submit this application and he/she placed 
his/her signature before me on ........./......... /2017.           
   –––––––––––––,
    attestor's signature. 
full name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
08–462
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.