

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1597
wxl 1"991 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'10'28
No. 1991 -  FRIDAY , OCTOBER 28,  2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 18th November, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 4th November, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GANGANI LIYANAGE,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
15th September,  2016.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 1598
By-Laws ... 1608
Posts - V acant ...     —
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1597
Note.— (i) Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 12, 2016.
(ii) Nation Building Tax (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 19, 2016.
(iii)Land (Restrictions on Alienation) (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 02, 2016.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1598
Provincial Councils Notifications
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
North  Westren  Provincial  Social  Service  Statute
No. 03 OF 2015 OF THE NORTH  WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
THE above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 22nd September, 2015
and assented by the Governor of North Western Province on 14th September, 2016 is hereby  published for the information
of the public.
P
ADMINI  K ARIYAWASAM,
Council Secretary,
Provincial Council,
North Western Province.
Council Office,
North Western Provincial Council,
Kurunegala,
21st September, 2016.
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  ANOUNCEMENT
North Western Province
IT’S hereby announced that, to the powers vested in the minister of local governments in North Western Province under
the subsection (1) of the section 2 of the Local Government Act (approved by law) of No. 6 of 1952 of 261 authority that
read with the subsection (1) of section 2 of the provision of Provincial Council Act (Consequential) of No. 12 of 1989
such by laws as by law on maintenance regularization, Supervision and Control of Eating Houses, restaurants and Tea or
Coffee Shops within the area of authority of Municipal Council Kurunegala, by law of Municipal Council Kurunegala, by
law  on maintenance regularization, Supervision and Control of, parking of vehicles and traffic control within the area of
Authority of Muncipal Council Kurunegala, by law on advertisements within the area of Authoritiy of Municipal Council
Kurunegala by law on maintenance regularization, supervision and control of Lodging Houses within the area of Municipal
Council Kurunegala, by law on maintenance regularization, Supervision and Control of, Hotels within the area of Municipal
Council Kurunegala, by law on prevention, regularize and control of damages to thoroughfares and abstructions to road
transport within the area of authority of Municipal Council Kurunegala were approved by the provincial council at the
session on 05th January, 2016.
P. B. M. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Local Government,
North Western Province Provincial Council.
At the Ministry of Local Government (NWP),
On 27th, September, 2016.
10-1731

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1599
NORTH WESTERN  P ROVINCIAL SOCIAL SERVICES STATUTE NO. 03 OF 2015
A Statute to provide for the rehbilitation of destitute persons and families residing in the North Western
Province and for the efficient maintenance of Social services including providing for the rehabilitation
and social wefare of physically, mentally and socially handicapped presons and providing relief for
persons who are feeble and cannot engage in any employment and to provide for matters incidental
thereto.
Be it enacted by the North Western Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as follows:
1. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Provincial Council Services Statute No. 03 of
2015, and shall come into operation on such date, as the Governor of the North Western Province
may approve.
2. The objects of this Statute are as follows:
(1) to establish the North Western Provincial Department of Social Services;
(2) to establish and maintain the North Western Provincial Social Services Fund;
(3) to provide aid and relief for poor and destitute persons residing in the North Western Province
who need to be provide with wesfare services and to rehabilitate them;
(4) to protect, develop and rehabilitate physically, mentally and socially handicapped persons
and aged presons who have become destitute and to maintain homes for the purpose;
(5) to register, supervise and regulate homes and Institutions maintained on voluntary or
commercial basis for physically, mentally and socially handicapped persons and aged persons
who have become destitute and to provide aid to such homes or institutions;
(6) to provide assistance to those who cannot engage in any employment as they suffer from
Tuberculosis, Cancer, Leprosy, Thalacemia, kidney disease and other special identified
diseases.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES ITS CONSTITUTION, POWERS AND
FUNCTIONS
3.      There shall be established a Department to be called the North Western Provincial Department of
Social Services (hereinafter referred to as “the Department”) to achieve the objects of this Statute.
4.    (1)  “the officer of Class 1 of ths Sri Lanka Administrative Service should be appointed by the
governor in consultation with the Minister for the implementation of the Powers provisions
and functions of this Statute. The said Director shall be the head of the Department”.
North Western Provincial Social Service Statute No. 03 of 2015 of the North Western
Provincial Council
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL, WELFARE, PROBATION & CHILDCARE, WOMEN’S AFFAIRS, RURAL
INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT, N. W. P.
Long Title.
Short title and
date of
Operation.
The objects of
this Statute.
Establishment of
the Provincial
Department of
Social Services.
Appointment of
the Director and
Composition of
the Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1600
(2) There shall be appointed a staff comprising of Assistant Directors,
Headquarters social Services officers, Superintendent of Institutes, Social
Services Officers and other officers to assist the Director.
(3) The Director may assign the powers and functions conferred on him by this
Statute to Assistant Directors, Headquarters Social Services officers,
Superintendent of Institues, Social Services Officers and other officers of
the Department to be exercised and discharged.
(4) All officers appointed for the purpose of this Statute shall be deemed to be
Public Officers within the meaning of the Penal Code.
5. The duties and functions of the Department are as follows:
       (1) to pay public assistance monthly allowance;
(2) to provide maintenance assistance for aged and handicapped persons referred
to registered voluntary organizations/institutions on the approval of the
Dorector or by a Court order.
(3) to provide educational assistance to children in widowed, dispersed, ailing
disabled or destitute families;
(4) to provide ‘Pilisarani’ housing assistance to low income families;
(5) to pay assistance allowances to Tuberculosis, Cancer, Leprosy and Thalacemia
patients of poor and destitute families on the recommendations of a
Committee comprising of members including  a qualified doctor.
(6) to provide special medical assistance to patients suffering from chronic
diseases of poor and destitute families, on the recommendations of a
Committee comprising of members including a qualified doctor;
(7) to register all established in the North Western Province and to formulate
and implement standards for the provision of services by such institutions
and to supervise them;
(8) to establish and maintain homes/institutions with required standards for senior
citizens;
(9) to establish and maintain homes, institutions, pre-schools and skills
development centres for handicapped or slow-learners and to rehabilitate and
develop them;
(10) to provide counseling services to persons and families who are or susceptible
to become mentally aggrieved due to various reasons in the society and thereby
rehabilitate them and to established and maintain counseling centres;
(11) to provide relief to persons and families who having faced with informalities
and to rehabilitate them.
(12) to provide rehabilitation services for persons who have become or are
susceptible to become socially helpless;
The duties and
functions of the
Department.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1601
(13) to provide spectacles, hearing aids, wheel chairs, tricycles, hand rests, clutches, walking frames,
contact lenses artificial limbs etc., to handicapped persons in poor families who seek assistance;
(14) to provide maintenance assistance due assistance or block grants for registered voluntary
institutions which house and care for aged and handicapped persons who have become destitute
and need to be provide cared for;
(15) to provide relief which is not covered by services and assistance provided by other State
institutions to persons and families who become destitute in a sudden disaster situation;
(16) to implement programmes to rehabilitate the families of persons who become imprisoned;
(17) to conduct special studies, surveys and researches in relation to the objects of this Statute;
(18) to administer and manage the North Western Provincial Social Services Fund.
6. (1) Any person or institution shall furnish to the Director of Social Services such information or
records as may be necessary to discharge and achieve duties and objects referred to in this
Statute as the when demanded by him or any other officer authorized by him.
(2) The Director of Social Services or any officer duly authorized by him shall for the purpose of
this Statute, have the power-
(a) to enter and search, examine, inspect or to survey;
(b) to examine documents to obtain information as may reasonably necessary;
(c) to take into possession of necessary documents;
at all reasonable times of the day without prior notice any home for the aged, any home for
handicapped persons or any institution maintained for social service activities which are situated in the
North Western Province, for the purpose.
PART II
REGULATION OF HOMES AND INSTITUTIONS PROVIDING SERVICES
7. (1) It shall be mandatory for all institutions which house aged and handicapped persons or provide
services for such persons and all homes, institutions, pre-schools, and skills development centres
maintained on a voluntary or commercial basis in the North Western Province for handicapped
or mentally retarded persons or any institution which falls under the said category, to be registered
with the Department of Social Services.
(2) Every homes or institutions of the nature referred to at Sub-section (1)  above which are
maintained in the North Western Province by a foreign Non-government Organization or any
branch thereof or on the financing of such organization, shall be registered with the Department
of Social Services.
(3) Every homes and institutions coming under the category referred to at Section 7(1) and 7(2)
above, which were in operation on the date of coming into operation of this Statute, shall be
registered under this Statute.
(4) Every homes and service providing institutions which meet the basic qualifications specified
by the regulations under Section 59 of this Statute and will be newly established in the North
Western Province, shall obtain the temporary registration of the Department.
Powers of the
Department
Homes/
Institutions to be
registered.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1602
(5) The Director may grant the registration to any home or institution which has obtained the
temporary registration under Sub-Section 7(4) of this Statute if he is satisfied that it has been
operating for a period  of one year in compliance  with the required standards stipulated in the
regulations referred to in Section 29 of this Statute.
8. Any home of institution which does not comply with the required standards stipulated in the regulations
referred to in Section 29 of this Statute, shall not be eligible for the registration.
9. In the event any home or institution does not qualify for the registration, the director shall inform
the respective home or institution in writing of the refusal decision of the registration.
10. (1) If the Director determines that any home or institution acts in contravention of the objects of
this Statute or does not comply with the required standards stipulated in the regulations, he may
cancel the registration of such home or institution.
(2) The Director shall inform the respective home or institution in writing of the cancellation of
registration together with reasons therefor
11. The Management of any home or institution of which registration was refused or cancelled may
make an appeal against such refusal or cancellation to the Minister in charge of the subject within
30 days from the receipt of the notice to the effect that the registration was refused under Section
9 of this Statute of cancelled under Section 10 thereof.
12. (1) When an appeal is received under Section 9 of this Statute, the Minister may direct the Secretary
to conduct an inquiry and make a decision in that regard.
(2) Upon conducting an inquiry in that regard by the Secretary, the decision of the Director may be
confirmed or amended or rescinded.
(3) The Secretary shall make his decision within three months from the receipt of the appeal and
his decision shall be final and conclusive.
13.  (1) The home or institution of which the registration is refused under Section 9 of this Statute or
cancelled under Section 19(1) thereof, shall be closed down within 30 days from such refusal
or cancellation.
(2) Provided however that, in the event an appeal has been made under Section 11 of this Statute the
closing down may be deferred until such time the determination of the appeal is recieved.
(3) In the event the decision of the Director is confirmed at the inquiry under Section 12(2) of this
Statute, the relevant home or institution shall be closed down within 30 days from such
confirmation.
14. (1) Every voluntary Organization  which maintains a registered home or institution under Section 7
of this Statute, shall enter into an agreement with the Director in regard to its home or institution.
The terms and conditions of the agreement shall be specified by regulations.
(2) The Minister or the Director may issue instructions or orders or guidelines which they think
opportune or expedient, for the purpose of this Statute by way of Circulars or Regulations.
(3) The Management of every home or institution registered for the purpose of this Statute shall
ensure that it complies with the instructions or orders or guidelines issued under Sub-Section
14(2) above.
Disqualifications
for registration
Refusal of
registration.
Cancellation of
registration
Appeal from the
refusal or
cancellation of
registration.
\
Appeal
procedure.
Closing down of
homes or
institutions
Regulation of
voluntary
organizations

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1603
PART III
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL SOCIAL SERVICES FUND
15 . There may be established and maintained a fund which shall be called the “North Western Provincial
Social Service Fund” for the purpose of achieving the object referred to in Section 2 of this Statute.
North Western
Provincial Social
Services Fund.
16. There shall be credited to the fund-
(i) all such sums of money as may be provided from time to time by the State as grants;
(ii) All such sums of money voted by the North Western Provincial Council for the purpose of the
Fund;
(iii) All such moneys received as foreign aids under Section 22 of the Provincial Council Act;
(iv) All such sums of money as may be received by way of  concerts, lotteries and other accepted
sources;
(v) All such sums of money as may be received by way of donations made by local or foreign
persons, institutions or organizations;
(vi) All such sums of money as may be received by way of interests and dividends from the investments
of the money of the Fund;
17. (1) There shall be maintained a separate account in a State bank for the operation of the fund. All
moneys received by the Fund shall be deposited to the credit of this account.
(2) All moneys in the fund which are not immediately required to pay out the fund may be invested
in a State bank or State finance institution.
18. The Director shall hold the trusteeship of the fund.
19. There shall be paid out of the Fund such sums of money to incur expenses for following purposes
with the intention of  achieving objects of this Statute.
(1) To develop homes for the aged or homes for persons with special needs or skills development
centers which are under the supervision of the Department and to develop their infrastructure
facilities;
(2) To improve welfare services for the service recipients of homes for the aged or homes for
persons with special needs or skills development centers;
(3) To implement programmes for the prevention of drugs and rehabilitation of drug addicts;
(4) To establish psychiatric counseling centers and to improve counseling services;
(5) To  provide financial assistance in instances where the target service recipients are burdened
with heavy expense for surgeries, medicines and medical equipment and treatments on account
of various diseases subject to a ceiling as determined by the Board of Management of the Fund;
Composition of
the Fund
Account of the
Fund
The trusteeship
of the fund.
Making
payments out of
the Fund

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1604
(6) To study and research on social issues and thereby to identify new projects to be implemented
for the improvement of welfare services;
(7) To facilitate programmes to print, launch and appreciate creative books, newspapers and works
of art of the target service recipients;
(8) To strengthen the publicity drive to necessary to make the community aware of the services of
the Department;
(9) To rehabilitate mentally ill persons whose treatments are over and with no one to take care of
them;
(10) To establish homes for the aged or living centers for persons with disabilities;
(11) To incur expenses at disasters for purposes that can not be covered by the Departmental
provisions;
(12) To implement special identified programmes for the welfare of the target service recipients;
(13) To incur expenses needed for the administration of the Fund;
(14) To incur expenses for other purposes as may be imposed by regulations;
20. The financial year of the fund shall be the calendar year.
21. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of  the accounts of public
corporations and the financial rules of the Western Provincial Council shall apply to the audit of
accounts of the fund. Audit  of the Fund
22. The Minister shall within six months after the expiry of the calendar Year table a report on the
administration of the fund in respect of the year , a copy of the audited statement of accounts for
the year and a report of the Auditor general on the said accounts.
23. (1) There shall be a Board of Management for the administration of the fund and the Minister shall
appoint the following members to the Board of  Management:
(a) The Secretary in charge of the subject of Social Services in the Provincial Council of the
North Western Province;
(b) Director of Social Services of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province;
(c) The Deputy Chief Secretary, Finance Management of the Provincial Council of the North
western Province;
(d) Two other representatives of the management of homes or institutions in the two district of
Kurunegala and Puttlam registered under Section 7 of this Statute appointed by the Minister
at his discretion.
(2) The Secretary of the Ministry shall be the Chairman of the Board of Management and the Director
shall be the Secretary of the Board of Management.
(3) The term of the office of members appointed to the Board of Management under Section  23(1)
(c) shall be three (03) years from the  date of appointment.
Financial Year
of the Fund.
Audit of
accounts of the
Fund.
Reports on
accounts of the
fund.
Appointment of
the
Management.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1605
(4) The membership of the ex-officio members shall cease with the termination of holding of
office by virtue of which such officer has been appointed and his successor shall be appointed
to the vacant membership.
(5) The Minister may appoint any other person referred to in Sub- section 23(1) (c) of this Statute
to fill such vacancy created by resignation or removal of any member to hold office for the
un-expired  period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
(6) The term of office of the member appointed to the vacancy created by resignation or removal
of any member shall be limited to the un-expired period of the term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
(7) It is not restricted to reappoint a member who has once been appointed to the  Board of
Management of the fund by the Minister.
24.  (1) Any member may resign from his office by written communication Addressed to the Minister
in that regard.
(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Social Services shall remove from office, any member
appointed to the Board, if he/she is convicted by any Court or found guilty of any act of
misconduct.
(3) If  the Minister is not satisfied with the performance of any member, he may remove such
member from office at his discretion.
25. (1) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed as a member of  the management board if
he-
(a) Is a Member of Parliament , a member of a Provincial Council or a member of a local Authority;
or
(b) Is found or declared to be of unsound mind or insolvent or bankrupt or is convicted of a criminal
offence by any court.
26.  The powers and functions of the Board of Management shall be as follows;
(1) To make policy decisions relating to administration of the fund;
(2) To give instructions on matter pertaining to management, operation and execution of affairs of
the fund;
(3) To grant approval to incur expenses for the execution of duties and functions provided for in
Section 19 of this Statute subject to limits prescribed by the Governor;
(4) To submit to the Minister the annual report of the management of accounts of the fund and the
audited annual statement of finance.
27.  (1) The Board of Management shall convene at least once in every 03 months.
(2) The quorum of the meeting is three members.
(3) The existence of any vacancy in the membership of the board of management shall not impede
the meetings thereof.
(4) A remuneration as determined by the Minister may be paid to the members of the management
board for attending meetings thereof on the approval of the Governor.
Resignation or
removal from
the membership
of the board.
Disqualification
for being
appointed as a
member.
Powers and
functions of the
Board of
Management.
Meetings of the
board and its
quorum.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1606
PART IV
GENERAL
28.  Where an offence under this Statute is committed under Section 30 of this Statute, the Director or
any other officer authorized by him shall have the power to institute action.
29. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of all matters in relation to which regulations are
authorized or required to be made by this Statute.
(2) Every regulation, made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or on such later date as may be specified in such
regulation.
(3) Every regulation, made by to Minister shall, within 3 months after its publication in the Gazette,
be brought before the Provincial Council 6 for approval. Any regulation which is not so approved
shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but  without prejudice to anything
previously done there under.
(4) Notification of the date on which any such regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.
PART V
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
30. Any person who-
(1) deliberately furnishes false or incorrect information on any report or other document required
or supplied under any order or regulation made under or for the purpose of this Statute;
(2) fails or refuses to furnish any information or report required by this Statute;
(3) neglects to carry out the orders or instructions or guidance of the Director unless on reasonable
grounds;
(4) deliberately obstructs any person acting in pursuance of any duty conferred on him by this
Statute or any regulation made there under.
(5) contravenes or fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of this Statute or any regulation
Shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute.
31. Any person who commits any offence under Section 30 of this Statute shall on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than Rupees Ten Thousand (Rs. 10,000)
and not exceeding Rupees Hundred Thousand (Rs. 100,000) or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding Six(06) months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
PART VI
INTERPRETA TIONS
32. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires :
(1) “Governor” means the Governor of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province;
(2) “Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Social Welfare in the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province;
(3) “Secretary” means the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Social Welfare in
the Provincial Council of the North Western Province.
Power to
institute actions.
The Minister
may make
regulations.
Offences.
Penalties.
Interpretations.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1607
(4) “Director” means the Director of Social Welfare appointed to the North Western Province
under Section 4(1) of this Statute.
(5) “homes and institutions” means homes and institutions maintained on voluntary or commercial
basis to house and care for orphaned, deserted and destitute aged persons and handicapped
persons and includes institutions, maintained  by the Provincial Council of the North Western
Province.
(6) “Pre-schools and skills development centres” means institutions maintained by the Department
of Social Services of the North Western Province to develop education  and skills of children
with special needs;
(7) “Informalities” means minor natural damages caused by reasons not widely spread and beyond
the control  of a person;
(8) “a poor” means a person who cannot survive on his own unless he is provided with basic assistance;
(9) “Public assistance” means the assistance granted on a monthly basis to poor, aged and sick
persons and physically and mentally retarded persons who have no means of income;
(10) “required standards” means standards specified or to be specified by the Director or the Minister
by way of regulations in respect of matters under this Statute;
(11) “low income families” means the families categorized as low income families based on the
limits of income determined by the Government from time to time;
(12) “voluntary organization” has the same meaning as interpreted in the V oluntary Social Services
Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980;
(13) “O rphan” means a person who lives alone and has no one to care for and is unable to provide for
himself.
(14) “destitute person” means a person who receives public assistance granted by a Government
Department or Local Authority or who is unable to engage in an employment due to illness on a
medical certificate or who is handicapped and needs assistance to survive;
(15) “handicapped” means a person who is incapable to provide and care for himself totally or partly
as a consequent of mental retardation or other physical deformities inherent or otherwise;
(16) “with special needs” has the same meaning as that of “handicapped”;
(17) “Special disease” means a disease for which a board comprising of a doctor has recommended
prolong treatments;
(18) “aged” means a person who is above the age of 60 years;
(19) “financial institutes” means institutions with 100% government shareholding which have license
to accept cash deposits;
(20) “S tate Bank” includes People’s Bank,  Bank of Ceylon and National Savings Bank.
33.   In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statute the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
10-808
Sinhala text to
prevail in case to
inconsistency.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1608
BALANGODA URBAN COUNCIL
By - Laws
IT is hereby notified that I, the minister in - charge of the subject of local government, by virtue of powers vested in me
under section 154 of the Urban Council Act, that I have approved the following by - law passed by the Balangoda urban
council of Ratnapura district in terms of Section 153 and 154 of Urban Council Act (chapter 255)
M
AHIPALA H ERA TH,
Minister in - charge of
Subject of Local Government
Sabaragamuwa Province.
2nd March, 2016.
BY - LAW OF THE PUBLIC LIBRARY OF THE BALANGODA URBAN COUNCIL
01. There shall be a public library established and maintained by the Balangoda Urban Council for the provision of resources
and services in various media to provide education information and personal development and to fulfill creative and
recreational requirements for persons and social groups living within the area of authority of the Urban Council and
these by laws are enacted to make relevant provisions thereto.
02. The Public library of the Urban Council may consist of the following Sections and services according to requirements
of the public in the area :-
(i) Lending Section
(ii) Reference Section
(iii) Childrens Section
(iv) Newspaper and periodical Section
(v) Study Section
(vi) Book preservation Section
(vii) Rare book collecting Section
(viii) Special collection and local collection Section
(ix) Community information Services
(x) Other information Services
(xi) Mobile Services
(xii) Computer Section - E - Library
(xiii) Audio visual Section
(xiv) Reading hall
(xv) Expansion Services (mobile, competitions, lectures)
03.   There should be a librarian for the public library of the urban council appointed by the Sabaragamuwa local government
Service Commission. Such appointee shall be responsible for organizing and maintenance of  the management of the
public library.
(i) Constant supervision should be there in relation with the proper maintenance of the organization and management
of the public library.
04. (i)  Library advisory board should be appointed which should be mentioned as the committee herein after in order to
make principals, guide and to give advice for the maintenance of the public library services. This  committee should
be appointed annually and it should consist of the following persons.
By - Laws

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1609
(a) The chairman and the council exofficio is the chairman of the committee if any other
one is appointed as the chairman it should be done solely by the chairman.
(b) not less than four members should be included at least per one council member from
each and every group representing all the groups including and the vice chairman.
(c) At least three representatives duly elected from among the representatives so as to
represent multi religions that the residents of the area of authority believes.
(d) Four educated VIPS living in the urban area of authority selected by the chairman.
(e) secretary of the urban council.
(f) Community development officer.
(g) The librarian.
(h) At least three principals from the principals in school in area of authority.
(i) President and, secretary representing the readers’ club.
(ii) The total membership should not exceed (23/25)
05. (i) The chairman should be the ex officio chairman of the committee every meeting should be
presided over by him. In the absence of the chairman for any meeting the vice chairman or if he
is not elected for the committee some other member present should preside over the meeting.
(ii) The member presiding over at any meeting shall have one primary vote and a casting vote when
there is an equal number of votes for and against any decision.
(iii) The librarian should be the secretary of the advisory committee ex-officio.
(iv) The Secretary of the urban council should be the convener ex - officio.
06. Establishment of funds
The advisory committee has the capacity of the designing and the implementing various projects
adopted as suitable on a resolution by the committee subject to approval by the assistant
commissioner of local government on the recommendation of the chairman of the local government
institution in case of any money earned from these projects should be credited to the fund which is
implemented by the committee.
(i) The committee has the capacity of establishing and maintaining a fund for the facilitation of the
development of the library and other requirements.
(ii) The turst of the fund should be maintained by the urban council and it should be performed by a
group consisting of persons appointed by the committee.
(iii) Financing fund should be done by the urban council and it should be done by either the chairman
or secretary or accountant or librarian or any other close person authorized by him.
(iv) A bank account should be maintained for the fund and use of the money in the account and the
cheques should be done by the officers mentioned in No: iii above.
(v) Accounts activities of this fund should be subject to supervision of the committee and money
transaction and uses should be done on the decision of the committee.
07. The quorum should be 1/3 of the members of the committee number and the membership of the
members who have not participated continuously in three meetings will be abolished. The duration
of office of the committee should be one year and the members should be appointed annually.
08. Lending Section - Obtaining membership
(i) The person should possess the following eligibilities to obtain the membership of the library.
(a) Ability to read and write
(b) A permanent resident within the area and authority of the urban council.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1610
(c) Should maintain an office or a place of business within the area of authority of the urban council.
(d) Should involve in education in a government or and international school within the area of authority of the
urban council.
(e) should be an employee within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
(ii) (a) Should be over 12 years of age to obtain general membership.
(b) Should be under 12 years of age to obtain child membership.
(iii) Every person who expects the library services should pay a charge determined by the council on resolution and
adoption from time to time and apply for membership through an application from obtained from the librarian and
that application should be attested by a person mentioned below.
(a) In case of a school applicant - a certificate from the principle certifying that the applicant is receiving
education in that school.
(b) In case of and employee - a certificate from the head of the institution.
(c) In case of a resident out side the area of authority a certificate from the Gramma Niladahri the division
where he resides.
(d) a permanent resident who is a tax payer within the jurisdiction of the urban council area should sign as a
guarantee.
(iv)  Membership fee :
(a) For permanent resident within the jurisdiction of the urban council.
A fee of Rs. 50/= for child membership and fee of Rs. 100/= for adult membership should be paid.
This will include the V AT/NBT membership should be renewed by paying Rs. 50/= once in two years
however the membership fee will be prescribed on resolution and adoption by the council from time to
time on the recommendation of the committee.
(b) For relevant members under 08 i-(c) (d) (e) double the membership fee of the permanent residents
within the jurisdiction of the urban council should be levied. on the renewal of the membership once
in two years double the sum of the residents within the jurisdiction of the urban council should be
levied.  V AT/NBT charges should also the included for this.
However the
(a) membership fee will be presented on resolution and adoption by the council from time to time.
(b) The clergy residing permanently within the jurisdiction of the urban council should be given the
membership if signed by an Urban Council member. However the bylaw meant for other members are
empowered for them too.
09. Obtaining membership
(a) Two tickets should be issued to every person who is admitted as a member of the lending library and
such a person is entitled to borrow one book each for such ticket.
(b) Transfer of such tickets is prohibited.
(ii) A member of the lending library is responsible for any book issued to him on a ticket.
10. Where a member of the lending library loses a ticket issued to him under by law 09 he should immediately give notice
to the librarian of subh a loss. If the librarian is satisfied that no book has been borrowed from the lending library on
such a ticket he may issue to such a member a duplicate ticket. No such duplicate tickets should be issued by the
librarian unless there has elapsed at least a period of thirty days from the date on which the loss was brought to his
notice.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1611
11.Any book borrowed by a member from the lending library should be returned to the librarian within a period of
fourteen days from the date on a which it was borrowed. The member may be allowed by the librarian to borrow any
book for the further period of fourteen days if the book is not required by any other member.
12. Where a member fails to return any book to the librarian within the period of fourteen days referred to in by l a w
11, he shall be liable to a fine of one of rupee per each and every day or a fine resolved and adopted by the council on
the recommendation of the committee.
13. When a member fails to return any book he has borrowed from the lending library within 90 days from expiry of the
period of fourteen days referred to in by law 11, then such book shall be presumed to be lost.
14. (i) In an instance where a book deemed to have been lost the member concerned should pay the cost of the book
binding charges charges and the cost of replacement and fines stipulated in by law No. 11, In such an instance the
librarian shall determine the charges to be recovered on the basis of the recommendations made by the advisory
committee and standard method.
(ii) Cost of the book -25% of the value of the book as department charges. If it as an old publication the current price
of it. If the book is not published the current price value and binding charges should be levied.
(iii) In c ase of a member who fails to return the book obtained by him even after expiring of one month, actions should
be taken to obtain some other copy of that book or levy all charges that should be paid to the library by the
member in relation with that book.
15. No member should damage or disfigure in any manner any book, borrowed from the library. Where a book so damaged
is returned a fine may be imposed in keeping with the present value for the damage caused to such book at the
discretion of the librarian.
16. It shall be the duty of every member to bring to the notice of the librarian any damage or injury in any book he intends
to borrow from the lending library where he has failed to bring any such damage or injury to the notice of the librarian
such book shall be presumed to have been issued to him without any damage or disfigurement.
17. Where the librarian is satisfied that a book returned by a member has been damaged and disfigured by him as to render
it unfit for further circulation, action should be taken initially to obtain a copy of that book from the member. On
failure to obtain so the member should defray the current cost of the resupply of the book. When the book has been
replaced the damaged book shall be given to that member with the words “the public library - removed as damaged”
stamped there on. The new book replaced so should be entered to the accession number indicated in the damaged
book. In case of such failure action shall be taken as stipulated in by law no 14 deeming it to be a lost book
18. (i) No member should transfer a book barrowed from the library to any person.
(ii) Any member who violates the provisions in Para 01 of this by law shall be deprived of his security deposit of
membership and the membership of the lending library shall also cease.
19. (i) No member should return to the lending library any book if he is aware that such book has been used by any
person who is suffering from an infectious or a contagious disease and he should forth with bring it to the notice
of the librarian. the member concerned shall take action in regard to the book on instruction and direction issued
by the librarian.
(ii) When a book barrowed by a member has been used by a person who is suffering from an infectious or contagious
disease such book should book should be destroyed and he should pay to the librarian the cost of its replacement.
20. Where any dispute arises between two member or more of the lending library as to which member should barrow
particular book, the librarian should take due decision.
21. When any member expects to obtain a book which was a taken away by some other member he should make a note of
his name and of the book in the register meant for that purpose. When that is returned by the member who had taken

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1612
it away the librarian should issue it to the member who has made a note in that register.
Where two members or more have made entries regarding any book they should be issued that book in the
sequential order of the entries in the register.
22. Any member who ceases to reside or have employed in an office or place of business or to change a school where he
receives education within the urban council area shall cease to be a member of the lending library and should return
to the librarian the two tickets. And case of change of residence the address of the new residencs should be produced
to the librarian in writing without delay.
23. The library should be opened for the readers on due days during specific hours on accordance with the standards of
the National Library and Documentation Service Board from 8.30 a. m. to 5.00 p. m. daily excepts the day at stock
taking or other days decided at the discretion of the council for specific reasons.
(Sunday s and public holidays and full moon poya days are normal holidays and the library should be kept closed on
such days. These holidays may be subject to change depending on the committee decisions and adoption of the
council meetings.)
24. Reference Library (Section) :
(i) Any user who wants to use the reference library should submit his national identity card or any other document to
prove his identity acceptable to the librarian and should obtain the permission from the librarian.
(ii) If a reader who intents to refer the books and the other reading material of the reference library, he shall
record the relevant information in the register of user properly and should borrow the books and the reading
materials.
25. (i) Any Person
(a) Who is literate and
(b) Who is not less than 14 years of age may be permitted by the librarian to use the reference
library.
(ii) The reader should bring blank sheets of paper only into the reference library for taking their notes.
(iii) No person should bring books, magazines newspapers, personal files or any other into reference library.
26. No person should take out of the reference section any book issued to him for reading from the reference library. But
when there is a photocopy service in operation provision should be made available to any person to obtain copies of
that particular publication by paying charges on request of the photocopies with the approval and under custody of the
librarian.
27. If a reader who has attended the reference section requires any reading materials of any other section expect the
reference section he may a request to the librarian of the reference section and if he thinks that the request made
is justifiable he may accede to the request.
28. Newspapers and periodical section (Reading Room)
Reading room - The reading room should be opened from 8.00 a. m. to 5. p. m. every week day or days and during the
hours decided by the council on the recommendations of the committee. Any person may be allowed to use the
reading room, name and time of arrival should be entered in the register maintained in the reading room.
29. Any damage should be not caused to any newspapers, periodical magazine, map or any other library material belonging
to the reading room or kept there and taking them away is strictly prohibited.
30. Books, periodical magazines, newspapers, and personal file etc or any other bag and baggage should not be taken in to
the room by readers.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1613
31. Removing of papers of books and tearing of pictures, drawing or diagrams should be strictly prohibited and
contravention of these by- laws shall be a punishable offence. And if convicted after a trial by a court of law he is
liable to a fine mentioned in section 153.2 of the urban council ordinance.
32.  Newspaper and periodical magazine section
(i) This shall come into force under by laws 28,29,30, and 31
(ii) the newspapers of the library will not be collected for preservation. The old newspapers should
be handed over to the stores for auction.
(iii) Periodical magazines - Periodical magazines of education value should be handed over to the
stores for reservation and auction (on the recommendation of the committee and adoption of
resolution of the council)
33. Children Library
The children between 6-12 years of age who are permanent residents or studing within the Balangoda Urban Council
limits are entitled to obtain the membership by submitting their applications in accordance with the rules are regulations
of the library.
34. In an instance where the member has failed to the pay the fines due from him the guarantor shall be responsible for
books and other reading articles or epuipment lent and lost by such member he shall pay such expenses incurred for
the resupply of the material and the Government charges of 25% should be paid by the guarantor.
35. By - law 9-21 shall be applicable in respect of the children library.
36. The opening time of the children library shall be from 8.30 a. m. to 5.00 p. m. and the time of opening and closing of
the children library shall be decided by the urban council and a notice that effect be displayed in the library.
37. Book preservation section
This can work as Library book preservation section and in addition to book bindings, book binding of the other
government institutions can be carried out. Charges on recommendation of the committee, resolution and adoptions
by the councils can be levied.
38. Computer Section- Objectives
A Computer Section for the library can the established in order to supply quick and correct information. The right to
obtain information to the people can be performed through this system. Through this the library can the converted to
a center for an internet computer system and an information center.
39. By laws 24 and 25 will be enforced for this section too.
40. Fees decided by inter - mitten resolutions & adoptions by the council should be levied for obtaining services form
the computer center.
41. The readers who use the computers should not bring CDs & Discus from outside to this computer section and they
can be obtained from the library. The charges on intermittent resolutions and adoptions by the council can be levied
for E-mail internet facilities.
General
42. Any person who is suffering from an infectious or a contagious disease or any person who has involved in attending
such person should not enter the public library premises until infection period and incubation period are over.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1614
43. No person is allowed to display or distribute any leaflet, poster or notice without the permission of the librarian.
44. The users of this library should not be disturbed shouting, singing or making some other sounds within the premises
of the public library. Taping sounds broadcasting or transmitting equipment should not be used in any place in the
library meant for the use of the public, without obtaining the permission from the librarian.
45. No person shall behave disorderly or cause any harassment to anybody within the premises of the library.
46. Damaging any part of the building or property in or around the library in any building of the council or any part of such
building or disfiguring such property in any manner should not be done.
47. No person should disturb harass, make angry or restrict any person employed in the library or any other person who
duly uses the library.
48. No person should carry any animal into the library or into the premises or retain such animal there.
49. All goods such as hats, walking sticks, travelling bags, parcels and book etc. possessed by a member or reader should
be kept on the rack meant for keeping goods closer to the entrance and he should not enter any section with them.
The responsibility of all the personal goods etc. lies in the reader and they should be taken away before the closure of
the library.
50. Sleeping, consuming foods or begging should not be done inside the library.
51. Smoking or spitting inside the library should not be done.
52. Do not enter the library in an impure state.
53. Gambling with lots and card packs or some other acts should not be done within the library.
54. There should be a deep silence in the library.
55. Shooting in the library without the permission, making sounds, broadcasting, or transmitting of sound
should not be done.
56. Carrying inside the library mobile phones, cameras lights, etc. is prohibited. The librarian shall have the
power to expel from the library premises any person who does not comply with the requirements as stipulated in
the by - laws.
57. Remaining or loitering after opening hours of the library without making a satisfactory reason should not be done.
58. Disturbing a librarian or any other person acting under his directions in the implementations of his powers under any
by - law should not be done.
59. For the purpose of using the reference section and other sections except lending section a fee recommended by the
committee and resolved and adopted by the council can be charged from non-library members.
60. Mobile Service
A mobile library service can be maintained by the council in case of person who are unable to get access to the public
library.
61. In place where mobile library services are held the date and time of holding such library services  should be made
known to the readers and notices should be displayed so that are clearly seen.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1615
62. Expansion services
Facilities should be provided by the council for lectures, seminars, workshops and other expansion services.
63. Annual Verification
It shall be the responsibility of the Urban Council Secretary to conduct and annual verification of stocks for the
library. And annual verification reported by the council should be submitted to the council. Recommendation resolved
and adopted by the council should be implemented within a period of three months from the date of adoption.
64. Where any library/library service is conducted by any NonGovernmental institution/ organization within the area of
authority of Local Government bodies such an institution/organization shall obtain prior approval of such authority.
(this shall not be applicable to libraries of school and parvenas and libraries of religious worship).
65. Violation of any section included in the by-law is an offence by any authorized Court of Law, He/she is liable for a
fine mentioned under Section 153(2) of Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance, and if that offence is continued
to do he/she is liable for additional fine for each day of such continuation even after handing over a written notice
notice by the Chairman of the Urban Council of Secretary or any officer authorized by him according to Section
153(2) of Chapter 255 of the Urban Council Ordinance.
Interpretation
in this by-laws relating to libraries, unless the context otherwise requires
the expressions
“librarian” means the librarian of the Balangoda public library or in the absence of the librarian the appointed officer to
be in charge of that post,
“Books” mean various reading materials, periodicals, magazines, newspapers, leaflets, reproduction, maps, plans, supplies,
drawing, hand bills, photographs, CD plates, video cassettes etc. that belong to the library,
“Student” means the children who are studying under National Education System,
“Council” means the Balangoda Urban Council,
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Balangoda Urban Council,
“Vice Chairman” means the Vice Chairman of the Balangoda Urban Council,
“Urban Council Secretary” means the secretary of the Balangoda Urban Council.
“Library” means the Balangoda public library,
“Reading Room” means the new reading hall affiliated to the public library,
“Vidu Nana Piyasa” means E-Library affiliated to the public library,
“Community Development Officer” means the officer to make supervision in the urban council appointed by the Local
Government Commissioner,
“Committee” means the library advisory commitee and
“Distinguished Person” means the person who are leaned. Intelligent and considered to be rendering some service for
the society living within the area of jurisdiction.
The designation herein are equally enforced to identify the persons bearing such designation irrespective of any difference
of male or female.
In case of any discrepancy with regard to the meaning of the Tamil or English copies the Sinhala copy will be enforced.
10-1651

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1616
KOLONNA  PARDESHIYA  SABHA
By-Laws
IT is hereby notified that I, the Minister in-Charge of the subject of Local Government, by virtue of powers vested in me
under Section 123 of the Pardeshiya Sabha Act, that I have approved the following by-law passed by the Kolonna Paradeshiya
Sabha of Ratnapura District in terms of Sections 122 and 123 of Padeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
M
AHIPALA H ERA TH,
Minister in-Charge of
Subject of Local Government.
06th September, 2016.
SUB  STATUTE  OF  OBTAINING  RELEV ANT  INFORMATION  AND  REPORTS  PERTAINING  TO  RECOVERING
TAXES  WITHIN  THE  AREA  OF  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
01. This sub statute is called as the Sub Statute of obtaining relevant Information and Reports pertaining recovering a tax,
wage or any other fee in issuing a permit related to Trade, Profession and Industry functioning within the area of
Kolonna Pardeshiya Sabha.
02. By this sub statute it is expected to regularize, control and maintain the obtaining relevant information and reports
pertaining recovering a tax, wage or any other recoverable fee.
03. Provisions or conditions stipulated in this sub statute will take effect from the date of publishing this in the  Gazette
notification:
(a) This sub statute is applied for business and industries described in the Schedule 1 and situated within the limits of
Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) Every person involved in businesses and industries mentioned in the Schedule 03
(a) 1 above are bound to give any information or report requested by Kolonna Pardeshiya Sabha for the recovery of
any tax or other fee that should be paid to Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha hereto.
04. The Sabha is entitled to amend or alter or develop above information or reports as per the format of Schedule 2
published herewith at any occasion that may be necessary for the Sabha in the time to come.
05. Within 30 days from the date of notice made by the Secretary, information and reports mentioned in the sub schedule
hereto have to be by registered post handed over to the Secretary of the Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha. Every document
that is handed over should be handed over to the Secretary of the Kolonna Pardeshiya Sabha or any other officer
authorized by him.
06. It is the duty of Kolonna Pardeshiya Sabha to assure through a document, receipt or any other manner the receipt of
information and reports provided to the Sabha within 30 days as per the above mentioned terms.
07. In case relevant information/ reports are not received within the said 30 days and the Sabha consider the necessary, an
officer authorized by the Chairman or Secretary of the Sabha is entitled to visit the venue of such business or industry
and inspect or request such information or reports.
08. In case of any project/ industry that will be commenced after the date of publishing this sub statute in the Gazette, the
owner or Manager of such project or industry should inform the Sabha about that before 30 days of the commencement
of such project or industry.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1617
09. Any change of a business/industry existed at any venue should be informed to the Chairman or
Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha by the owner or Manager of such business/industry within 30
days of such change.
10. In case a several businesses/ industries or professions are  carried out, it is the duty of the owner of
such businesses/industries to separately provide relevant information as per the Schedule 2.
11. It is an offense to neglect of providing information or reports or providing false information
requested by this sub statute within the due period of time. This sub statute make provisions for
following punishment if guilty by an authorized court of law:
(i) Fine worth not more than Rs.750/= under Pradeshiya Sabha Section 122 (2),
(ii) In case of continuation of any violation, negligence of provisions in this sub statute or providing
false information even after written order by the Secretary or Chairman of Kolonna Pradeshiya
Sabha, they will be subject to a fine for each and every day coming after due date as per Section
122 (2) of Pardeshiya Sabha  Act No. 15 of 1987.
12. Interpretation
Unless the context so required the terms Sabha in this sub statute mean include Kolonna Pradeshiya
Sabha, Chairman mean and include Chairman of Kolonna Pardeshiya Sabha, Secretary mean and
include the Secretary of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha, authorized officer mean and include an officer
authorized in writing by the Chairman or Secretary of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha.
13. Regarding any facts which is subject to this Sub statute is under the authorized of making amendment
time to time of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha.
14. If there arises any misinterpretation pertaining Tamil and English copies, Sinhala copy will be valid.
Schedule No. 01.
* Hotels or places of accommodation approved or registered in the Tourist Board of Sri
Lanka.
* Power houses approved by Board of Investment of Sri Lanka.
* Factories.
* Garments.
* Foreign employment agencies.
* Super markets.
* Registered liquor shops.
* Private transport services firms.
* Driving learning centers.
* All financial institutions that maintain deposits and providing loans.
* Insurance companies.
* Audit firms.
* Private medical laboratories.
* Independent contract firms.
* Auctioneers and brokers.
* Gem traders.
* Concrete workshops.
* Any other business registered under Business Registration Act.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1618
Schedule No. 02
1. Name of the owner :
2. Identity Card Number :
3. Address :
4. Annual valuation of the business venue :
(i) Valuation number :
(ii) Details of Previous year turn over/ income :
5. Type of the business/ industry/ profession :
6. If the business or industry produce goods or services, details of such products :
7. Number of employees employed :
8. If the business/ industry/ profession is registered under other department or institution, such details :
9. Other :
I do certify that the all above information furnished by me are true and correct.
………….
Signature
(Proprietor of the Business/ Industry/ Profession)
Date : …………………..
1. The turn over here means and include all receipts of any business/ industry.
2. The Business means,
* All businesses including any industry or any service firm that provide services for any charge or fee and
independent contractors.
* All factories or institutions.
* Boards and places of professions.
10-1653
KOLONNA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By - Laws
IT is hereby notified that I, the Minister in - charge of the subject of Local Government, by virtue of powers vested in me
under section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, that I have approved the following by - law passed by the Kolonna Pradeshiya
Sabha of Ratnapura District in terms of section 122 and 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha act No. 15 of 1987.
M
AHIPALA H ERA TH,
Minister in - charge of
Subject of Local Government.
06th September, 2016.
SUB STATUTE ON REMOVING, REGULARIZING AND CONTROLLING OF GARBAGE.
01.   This sub statute is called as sub statute on removing, regularizing and controlling of garbage within the area declared
as developed village area of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha.
02.   This sub statute is enacted to prevent, control and regularize garbage within the area of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1619
03. Residents of any place situated within the limit of implementing removal of garbage in the area of Kolonna Pradeshiya
Sabha has to remove their garbage according to following rules:
(i) only garbage bins or bags which are provided by the Sabha or with prescribed standard have to be used for the
removal of garbage.
(ii) Garbage bins supplied by residents according to specifications made by the sabha from time to time or bins
provided by the sabha should be used for the removal of garbage. Damaged bins should not be used for the removal
of garbage.
(iii) Garbage bin mentioned in the above sub section ii has to be given to the garbage tractor or vehicle within the
period of time informed by Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iv) Place in which garbage bins are kept should be maintained in the good manner and necessary measures have to be
taken to close or cover such bins so that insects or mystiques cannot breed.
(v) bags of garbage are daily collected by the labourers of the Sabha within the times published by the sabha from
time to time and it the duty of the residents to bring garbage to the venue prescribed in time.
(vi) Collection or storing garbage which are disposed by the residents must by done in the manner no threat is occurred
to the health or sanitation of the residents in the area.
(vii) No person should remove or dispose garbage onto any street, public or private road, public place, into a river,
canal, water drain or reservoir.
(viii) No person should burn garbage at an open place or residential venue.
04. At any place in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha where there is no proper way of disposing garbage and a large amount of
garbage is collected and disposal of garbage on the request made by any institution should be done sibject to a fee as
mentioned in the schedule No. 01. For this purpose, a request through a format prepared based on the format mentioned
in schedule No. 02 has to be made from Pradeshiya Sabha.
05. Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha reserves the authority to amend from time to time any matter subject to this sub statute.
06. Unless the context so required the term Chairman in this sub statute mean and include the Chairman of Kolonna
Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Institution” means government institutions and private business places.
“Sabha”  means Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha. Resident means resident, lesee and renter.
“Authorized officer” mean Public Health Inspector/ Health Supervisor/ Technical Officer or any other officer who is
deployed in the said duty by the Chairman.
07. Violation of any sub statute included in these sub statutes will be an offence and when some body is guilty by an
authorized court of law he or she will be subject to a fine under section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of
1987.
Schedule No. 01
01. For the removal of garbage quantity between sq. ft. 65 - 125 charges are recovered as follows.
For One turn - Transportation within a distance of 02 km - Rs. 1000.00
Transportation within a distance of between 02 - 05 km - Rs. 1500.00
Transportation within a distance of 06 or more km - Rs. 2000.00
These fees will be subject to amendments made from time to time by Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha. In addition to
these fees, taxes and fees imposed from time to time by the Government will also be recovered.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1620
Schedule No. 02
Request for the removal of garbage.
01. Name of the applicant / Institution
02. Address
03. Amount of garbage collected for a time
(Mention the quantity according to type of garbage)
04. Period of removal
(Once a week / Twice a week)
05.Distance between the places of collecting and removal of garbage.
I hereby agree to removal of garbage under the conditions of Pradeshiya Sabha by paying due fees.
Date: Signature of the applicant/
Officer of the institution
Name & Designation
(Fix rubber stamp if institution)
10-1654
KOLONNA PARDESHIYA SABHA
By Laws
It is hereby notified that I, the Minister in-charge of the subject of Local Government, by virtue of powers vested in me
under section 123 of the Pardeshiya Sabha Act, that I have approved the following by-law passed by the Kolonna Paradeshiya
Sabha of Ratnapura District in terms of section 122 and 123 of Padeshiya Sbha Act No. 15 of 1987.
M
AHIPALA H ERA TH,
Minister in-charge of
Subject of Local Government.
06th September, 2016.
SUB  STATUTE  ON  REGULARIZING  AND  ADMINISTRATION  OF  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  OF  KOLONNA
PRADESHIYA  SABHA
01. This statute is enacted by Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha in order to regularize and administer the public library service
through the provision of various resources and services to improve educational development, interest of reading,
personal discipline and personality, entertainment and creative necessities of people living in the area of Kolonna
Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. This Sub Statute will take effect from the date of approving by the minister and publishing in the  Gazette.
03. Public library of Kolonna Padeshiya Sabha may consist of following sections and services according to the needs of
people living within the area of the Sabha.
(i) Leading section
(ii) Referring section
(iii) Children section
(iv) Periodicals and newspapers section

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1621
(v) Study section
(vi) Book conservation section
(vii) Mobile and branch library service
(viii) Other information services
04. Public Library of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha should have a Librarian who should be responsible for the Proper
maintenance of management of the public library.
05. Supervision and general administration of the public library is assigned to a Library Consultation Committee (hereinafter
called and referred as the Library Committee)
(i) This committee will be annually appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha. It is consisted of following members.
* Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha
* Number of members not more than three appointed among members of the Pradeshiya Sabha
* One representative from each religion so that religions of people living in the area of the Sabha are represented.
* No. of respectable persons not more than three living within the Sabha area whom will be appointed by the Sabha.
* Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
* Community relation Officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha
* Librarian of the main library of the Pradeshiya Sabha
* A Principal of a school in the Sabha area.
* A representative of a community board of the Sabha area.
(ii) Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha should should be officially the President of the committee and he should take
the chair of every meeting of the committee. When the Chairman is absent at the meeting a member who will be
appointed by committee members among committee members should take the chair.
(iii) Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha should be the convener of the committee.
(iv) Librarian of the main library of the Pradeshiya Sabha should be the Secretary of the committee.
(v) Quorum should be 1/3 of the number of members of the committee.
(vi) Member who takes the chair of any meeting has one basic voite while he has one decisive vote when the number
of vote for and against pertaining to certain matter is similar.
06. Obtaining the membership
(i). Every person who expects library services should pay a fee decided from time to time by Sabha decision and
obtain an application from the Librarian and apply the membership through that application form which has to be
attested by a person mentioned below.
* Grama Niladari of the area of residence.
* Justice of the Peace.
* Member of the Prdeshiya Sabha.
* Staff officer of the public service or provincial public service.
* In case of a school applicant, class teacher or Principal of that applicant.
(ii). Applicant must have following qualifications for the membership of the library.
* Applicant should be a resident or property holder or permanent employee within the area of Pradeshiya Sabha to
obtain the membership of the library.
* For the school membership, applicant should be a student of a school or Pirivena who is more than 05 years.

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1622
(iii) Membership fees
* Annual membership fee for an ordinary member is Rupees 115 and it has to be renewed once a year by making a
payment of Rupees 15.
* Membership fee for school members is Rupees 65 and it has to be renewed by making a payment of Rupees 15.
Navertheless membership fee could be decided by the committee from time to time through  a Sabha proposal.
(iv) Guarantors :
* Chairman or member of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
* Religious Chief,
* Justice of the Peace,
* Member of the library committee,
* Provincial Council or public officer who receive an annual salary over 240,00/=.
07. A member of lending section of the library is able to obtain 02 books at a time by the permit issued to him and he or
she is responsible for every book.
08. A book obtained by a member from the lending section has to be returned to the Librarian within 14 days from the
date of issue.
09. When any member neglects to return any book to the Librarian within the period mentioned in Statute 8 in the sub
statute he/she is bound to pay a surcharge of 50 cents per every exceeding day or other amount of surcharge decided
by the Sabha from time to time on the recommendation of the committee.
10. When any member neglects to return any book issued by the lending section within 30 days after the period of 14
days, that book is considered lost.
11. In case of an event of a loss of a book the member has to pay the value of that book and a department fee up to 25% of
that value and a surcharge mentioned in Para 9 of the sub statute. The member should not damage a book issued by
lending section in any manner.
12. It is  the responsibility of every member to inform the Librarian a damage of any book to be lent. In case any member
does not inform the Librarian about such a damage of the book, it shall be deemed that book was issued without any
damage.
13. When the Librarian decides that any book returned by a member is not suitable to issue back that member is bound to
bear the cost of providing such book bace. After that damaged book has to be sealed as ‘Sold’ and given to that
member.
14. (i) No member should alienate a book obtained from the library.
(ii) Membership of any member who violates provisions mentioned in sub statute of
14. (i) above will be canceled.
15. (i) if a member is aware of the fact that a book used by a patient suffering from skin or communicable  disease, such
a book should not be returned.
(ii) When a book obtained from the lending sector has used by a patient suffering from skin or communicable disease,
such a book should be destroyed and the cost there of has to be paid to the Librarian by that member.
16. Once a dispute arises that to which member any book has to be given among a few members, that dispute has to be
solved by the Librarian.
17. A book of the lending section has to be issued at a request of a member and if such book is already issued the Librarian
should take actions in order to write down the name of the applicant/applicants in a waiting list and that book should
be issued to them once it is available.

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1623
18. Lending section is kept opened during 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. everyday except Sunday, Public holidays and any day
decided by the committee after seven days notice to the members for stock taking. But the times and dates of opening
the library could be changed at the discretion of the Sabha.
19.Referring Section
(i). Referring books must be used after signing in the register at the lending section under the permission of the
Librarian.
(ii). No book, magazine or other reading article issued for referring should be brought out of the referring section.
Nevertheless if photo copy service is available, necessary measures have to be taken to provide photo copies of
needy pages of a book or document at the request made by any person under the approval and custody of the
Librarian.
 20. Reading Hall.
(i). Reading hall of the library will be kept open from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. on every day of the week or on the dates
or taimes that are decided by the Sabha. Any person is allowed to use the reading hall and before obtaining that
service they are expected to write their name and address in the register kept at the reading hall.
(ii). No book, magazine, periodical, map or other material belonged to or kept at the reading hall should be damaged
or brought out.
21. No person
(i). Should behave in the indecent manner or create troublesome situation within or around the premises to Kolonna
public library.
(ii). Should damage any building or property of the library or Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iii). Should remain or stay in vain within the premises of the library.
(iv). Should use liquor, smoke or spite within the premises of the library.
(v). Should play with dies or card packs within the premises of the library.
(vi). Should disturb other users of the library by means of shouting, singing or making other noises within the premises
of the library.
(vii). Should bring any kind of animal to the premises of the library.
(viii). Should sleep or take any food within the premises of the library.
(ix). Should enter the library premises in a dirty condition.
(x). Who is or was suffering from any communicable disease or skin disease or involved in helping such a patient
should enter the library premises until the communicable period of that disease is over.
(xi). Should disturb the Librarian or any other person authorized by the Librarian in exercising his power under this
statute.
22. A fee decided by the Sabha could be recovered from non members of the library for the use of referring section and
other sections except the lending section.
23. Annual stock survey.
It is the duty of the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha to conduct an annual stock survey for the library for every year.
Annual survey reports have to be submitted to the Sabha. Recommendation passed by the Sabha should be implemented
within three months from the date of passing.
24. Each and every violation of this sub statute shall be an offence and when a person convicted by a court of law he or she
is subject to a fine not more than a fine mentioned in section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987. In case
such violation is continued  written notice is handed over paying the attention on the said offence by the Chairman or
Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha or any other person authorized by them and if such offence is further continued such
offenders will be subject to a fine for every day of such offence as per section 122 (2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.
15 of 1987.

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'28
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA –28.10.2016
1624
25. Interpretation :
(i) The context so required the term Sabha in this sub statute mean and include Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha,
Chairman mean and include Chairman of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha, Secretary mean and include the Secretary
of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha, authorized officer mean and include an officer authorized in writing by the
Chairman or Secretary of Kolonna Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The term Librarian means a person appointed by the Sabha for the custody of the library or his assistants.
(iii) Community Relation Officer of the Sabha means the officer who has been appointed by the Commissioner
of Local Government for the Community coordination of the sabha.
(iv) The Committee means the Library Consultation Committee.
(v) Respectable persons means educated, intelligent persons living within the  area of Kolonna Pradeshiya
Sabha who dedicated for the social services.
26. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and English texts of this sub statute the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10-1652
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.