

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of January 14, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 18.01.2016)
INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONALS,
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Institute of Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka
To be presented in Parliament by  Hon. Harshana Rajakaruna,  M.P.
for Gampaha District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL
PROFESSIONALS, SRI LANKA
WHEREAS an Institute  called and known as the
“Institute of Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka” has
heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and tranasacting all matters
connected  with the said Institute according to the rules agreed
to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted  the objects and matters for which
it was established, and has applied to be incorporated and it
is for the public advantage to grant the such application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of
Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka  (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of  2016.
2. From and after  date of commencement of this Act, such
and so many person as now are members of  the  Institute of
Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred
to as the “Institute”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of  the
“Institute of Environmental Professionals, Sri Lanka”
(hereinafter referred to as the  “Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to
have and  use a common seal and  to alter  the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to raise and uphold the dignity and reputation of
environmental professionals in Sri Lanka ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of Institute of
Environmental
Professionals’,
Sri Lanka.
25
30
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to disseminate environmental knowledge to the
public ; and
(c) to conserve and enhance the natural and physical
environment of Sri Lanka.
4. The Functions of the Corporation shall be—
(a) to foster communication between environmental
professional and policy makers and to assist in
maintaining a balance between social economic and
environmental goals ;
(b) to identify, assess and to enhance current knowledge
of environmental issues of national and global
interest ;
(c) to encourage and promote interdisciplinary research
with a view towards increasing scientific
understanding of environmental issue ;
(d) to link with electronic online libraries and databases
to disseminate environmental information ;
(e) to promote and to facilitate awareness on
environmental issues and training of scientists and
others ;
(f) to promote informed advocacy in environmental
affairs ;
(g) to provide an enabling platform to discuss
environmental and development related issues ; and
(h) to encourage and to publish environmental
publications.
Functions of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to :—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire mortgage,
pledge, sell and exchange or otherwise dispose of,
any immovable or movable properties of the
Corporation ;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objectives or the exercise of the powers of
the Corporation ;
(c) conduct courses, hold examinations and to issue
certificates pertaining to the attainment of the
objectives of the Corporation ;
(d) invests its funds, and to maintain currrent, deposit,
and savings accounts in any bank or banks
approved by the Council ;
(e) advance or lend, or to borrow money for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner and
upon such security as the Council may think fit ;
(f) prescribe fees, in respect of membership, admission
to membership, and admission to courses and
examinations conducted by the Institute ;
(g) accept grants, gifts donations and bequests in cash
or in kind :
Provides that, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other provisions of this Act, the
Council shall obtain written approval of the
Department of External Resources of the Ministry
of the Minister to whon the subject of Finance is
assigned, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts of
donations.
30
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(h) appoint, employ, transfer, dismiss and exercise
disciplinary action against officers and servants of
the Corporation and to prescribe their terms and
conditions of service ; and
(i) generally, do all such acts and things as are
necessary for, or incidental or conducive to carrying
out or the attainment of the objectives of the
Corporation.
6. (1) The membership of the Corporation shall consist
of the following categories :—
(a) Member ;
(b) Charted Member ;
(c) Fellow Member ;
(d) Associate Member ;
(e) Student Member ;
(f) Hinorary Member ;
(g) Corporate Member ; and
(h) Life Member.
(2) The qualifications for each category of membership
shall be prescribed by rules made under the Act.
(3) The categories of members mentioned under
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (g) & (h) of subsection (1) shall be
eligible to be elected to the Council or any sub-committee of
the Institute and shall be entitled to all the rights and
privileges thereof and shall have the right to vote.
Membership
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
7. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 6 and the
rules made there-under, a person who is eligible for
membership of the Institute shall be enrolled in the
appropriate category, upon payment of a prescribed fee.
(2) Subject to sub-section (3) of this section and rules
formulated there under, the enrolment of a person as a
member of the Institute shall be effective until the thirty-
first day of December of the year of enrolment ; and the
enrolment may be renewed annually upon payment of a
prescribed fee.
(3) Rules may me formulated in terms of this Act for
members to be enrolled on the basis of an annual subscription
or as a life member.
8. (1) Any member of the Institute other than a member
enrolled in the category of a Fellow shall be entitled to use
the instials “M.I.E.P. (Sri Lanka)” after his name altered
members can use C.Env. (Sri Lanka) after their names.
(2) Any member of the Institute enrolled in the category
of a Fellow of the Institute shall be entitled to use the title
“F.I.E.P. (Sri Lanka)” after the name.
(3) No person shall use any title referred to in sub-sections
(1) and (2) unless such person is enrolled in that category.
9. (1) The affairs of the Institute shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Institute,be administerd by a Governing Council
(in this Act referred to as the “Council”).
(2) The Council shall consist of a President,Secretary and
other office bearers elected in accordance with the rules in
force for the time being of the Institute.
(3) The first Governing Council of the Institute shall be
the Governing Council of the Institute holding office on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Fee for
membership
of the
Corporation.
Use of Tilies.
Constitution
of Council.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
Act or
proceeding
of the
Institute
deemed not
to be invalid
by reason of
any vacancy
or defect in
the
appoinment
of a member.
20
25
(4) Any member of the Council who vacates office by
effluxtion of time shall be elegible for re-appointment.
(5) Every member of the Council shall hold office for a
period of one year unless he vacates office earlier by death,
resignation, or by removal.
(6) A member of the Council shall vacate office by
resignation there from or if he ceases to be a member of the
Institute.
(7) In the event of death or of vacation of office by a
member of the Council ; the Council may appoint any other
person, in place of such member, who shall hold office during
the unexpired period of the term of office of such member.
10. No act or proceeding of the Institute shall be deemed
to be invalid by reasons only of the existence of any vacancy
in the Council or defect in the appointment of any member
of the Council.
11. (1) The meetings of the Council shall be held once
at least every one month.
(2) The Secretary shall give at least seven days notice in
writing of every meeting of the Council to every member of
the Council.
(3) The Secretary shall summon a special meeting of the
Council within seven days after being requested in writing
by ten members or by the President of the Council,
notwithstading the provisions of sub-section (2).
Meetings of
the Council.

<!-- page 8 -->

Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
7
5
10
15
20
25
30
(4) The President shall preside at meetings of the Council
and in the absence of the President from any such meeting of
the Council a member of the Council chosen by the majority
of Council members present shall preside at such meeting.
(5) The President, or in his absence, the person presiding
at a meeting in terms of sub-section (4) above shall, in
addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.
(6) Subject to the provisions of this section and any rules
in force, the Council shall determine the procedure in regard
to its meetings and the transaction of business at such
meetings.
12. (1) The Council may, at any general meeting and
by the votes of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting make rules in respect of any matter
required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which
rules are authorized or required by this Act to be made.
(2) Any rule made by the Council may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under sub-section (1) of this section.
(3) The quorum for a general meeting of the Council shall
be twenty five Members.
(4) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by the provisions of sub-section (1) of this section
the Council may make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act and any other written law, in respect
of all or any of the following matters :—
(a) admission, enrolment, registration and expulsion
of members the qualifications and disqualifications
for membership the form and issue fo certificates of
membership the maintenance of a register of
members the waiver or reduction of membership
fees, the effect of non-payment of membership fees
and the rights, privileges and duties of members ;
Meetings of
the Council
and the
power to
make rules.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(b) the terms of office of the Council, eligibility and
the mode of election, the resignation or vacation or
appointment, the registration or vacation of office
and filling of vacancies of members thereof,
delegation of powers and functions of the Council
and appointment of sub-committees and Boards of
the Institure.
(c) summoning or holding of meetings of the Council,
notices and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
thereof and the conduct of business thereat ;
(d) management of the property of the Institute and
the custody of its funds;
(e) formulation of a Code of Professional Conduct ;
(f) procedure of disciplinary inquiries, appointment
of Disciplinary Committees and the providing of
legal assistance thereto, form of complaints, issue
of notices, summoning of any person, maintenance
of the record of the proceedings and reports of such
committees ;
(g) appointing to the staff, officers and servants as may
be necessary for the purposes of the institute ;
(h) dismissal and the exercise of disciplinary control
over such officers and servants.
(i) fixing the wages or salaries of other remuneration
of such officers and servants ; and
(j) determining the terms and conditions of service of
such officers and servants.
(5) The members of the Institute shall be subject to the
rules of the corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 10 -->

Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
9
13. (1) No person shall be enrolled as a member of the
corporation :—
(a) if he has been adjudged by a competent Court to be
of unsound mind ;
(b) if having been adjudged an insolvent of bankrupt,
he has not been granted by a competent Court that
his insolvency of bankruptcy has arisen wholly or
partly  from unavoidable losses or misfortunes ;
(c) if he has been convicted by a competent Court
whether in Sri Lanka or elsewhere, of any offence
involving moral turpitude and punishable with
imprisonment or similar punishment and has not
been granted a free pardon.
(2) The Council shall cancal the enrolment of any member
of the Corporation, if he becomes subject to any
disqualification referred to in sub-section (1).
Provided however, that such cancellation of enrolment
shall not prevent the Council from re-enrolling such person
should he fulfil the requirements for enrolment thereafter.
14. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.
(2) They shall be credited to the Fund of the
Corporation—
(a) all such sums of money as are received by the
Institute in the exercise and discharge of its powers
and functions under this Act ; and
(b) all such sums of money as are received by the
Institute as loans, grants and donations from sources
within or outside Sri Lanka.
5
10
15
20
25
Fund of the
Corporation.
General
disqualification.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(3) All sums of money required to defray any expenditure
incurred by the Institute in the exercise and discharge of its
powers and functions or as are required to be paid out of the
Fund by any provisions of this Act shall be charged on the
Fund of the Corporation.
15. The fiancial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
16. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except by the aurhority of a
resolution of the Council and in the presence of two members
of the Council and of the Secretary or such other person as
the Council shall authorize for that purpose ; who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
17. No member of the Council or officer or servant of
the Corporation shall disclose to any person, except for the
purpose of discharging of his functions under this Act or
when required to do so by a Court under any law, any
information acquired by him in the discharge of his functions
under this Act.
18. Any expense incurred by any person in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any Court in respect
of any act which is done by him or purported to be done by
him under this Act or on the direction of the Council shall, if
the Court holds that the act was done in good faith, be paid
out of the Fund of the Institute.
19. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Institute.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Financial
year of the
Corporation.
Prohibition
on disclosure
of
information.
Accounts and
Audit.
Expenses
incurred by
any person to
be paid by
the
Corporation.
How the seal
of the
Institute is to
be affixed.

<!-- page 12 -->

Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
11
(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by the Council of such
institute.
20. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or  of any body  politic
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act,  and those claiming by, from or under
them.
21. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Institute of Environmentel Professionals,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .