

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.  37.75                                                                                                             Postage  :  Rs. 11.25
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of March 21, 2003
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 17th March,  2003]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
CONSUMER   AFFAIRS   AUTHORITY
 ACT,  No.  9  OF  2003

<!-- page 2 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 20031
Establishment of
the Consumer
Affairs Authority.
[Certified on 17th March, 2003]
L.D.—O. 27/97.
A N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  CONSUMER
A FFAIRS  AUTHORITY  ; FOR  THE  PROMOTION  OF  EFFECTIVE
COMPETITION  AND  THE  PROTECTION  OF  CONSUMERS  ; FOR  THE
REGULA TION  OF  INTERNAL  TRADE  ; FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF
A  CONSUMER  AFFAIRS  COUNCIL  ; FOR  THE  REPEAL  OF  THE
C ONSUMER  PROTECTION  ACT , NO . 1 OF  1979, THE  FAIR  TRADING
C OMMISSION  ACT , NO . 1 OF  1987 AND  THE  CONTROL  OF  PRICES
A CT  (CHAPTER  173) ; AND  FOR  ALL  MATTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
WHEREAS it is the policy of the Government of Sri Lanka
to provide for the better protection of consumers through the
regulation of trade and the prices of goods and services and
to protect traders and manufacturers against unfair trade
practices and restrictive trade practices :
AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka is also
desirous of promoting competitive pricing wherever possible
and ensure healthy competition among traders and
manufacturers of goods and services :
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Consumer Affairs
Authority Act, No. 9  of 2003.
PART I
E
STABLISHMENT  OF  THE  CONSUMER  AFFAIRS  AUTHORITY
2. (1) An authority called the Consumer Affairs
Authority (hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”) is hereby
established which shall consist of the persons who are for the
time being members of the Authority under section 3.
2—H 017420–5,600 (2002/11)
Short title.
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
Chairman and full
time members.
(2) The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. (1) The Authority shall consist of a Chairman and
not less than ten other members who shall be appointed by
the Minister from among persons who possess recognized
qualifications, have had wide experience and have
distinguished themselves in the field of industry, law,
economics, commerce, administration, accountancy, science
or health.
(2) The Chairman and three of the members, selected by
the Minister from among the members appointed under
subsection (1), shall be full time members (hereinafter referred
to as “full-time members of the Authority”).
(3) The members of the Authority other than the
Chairman and the three full time members of the Authority
shall be paid such remuneration as may be determined by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.
(4) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act, shall have
effect in relation to the term of office of the members of the
Authority, the meetings and seal of the Authority.
4. The Chairman and the full time members of the
Authority shall each hold office for a period of three years
from the date of their respective appointments, and shall be
paid for their services such remuneration as may be
determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.
5. The Director-General of the Authority appointed under
section 52, shall act as the Secretary to the Authority.
Constitution of the
Authority.
Director-General
to act as the
Secretary to the
Authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 20033
Delegation of
powers to public
officers.
Objects of the
Authority.
6. The Authority may for the purpose of discharging its
functions under this Act, delegate to any public officer by
name or office such functions vested in, or imposed upon, or
assigned to the Authority by or under this Act, on such terms
and conditions as may be agreed upon between such officer
and the Authority.
7. The objects of the Authority shall be—
(a) to protect consumers against the marketing of goods
or the provision of services which are hazardous to
life and property of consumers ;
(b) to protect consumers against unfair trade practices
and guarantee that consumers interest shall be given
due consideration ;
(c) to ensure that wherever possible consumers have
adequate access to goods and services at competitive
prices ; and
(d) to seek redress against unfair trade practices,
restrictive trade practices or any other forms of
exploitation of consumers by traders.
8. The functions of the Authority shall be to—
(a) control or eliminate—
(i) restrictive trade agreements among
enterprises ;
(ii) arrangements amongst enterprises with regard
to prices ;
(iii) abuse of a dominant position with regard to
domestic trade or economic development
within the market or in a substantial part of
the market ; or
(iv) any restraint of competition adversely affecting
domestic or international trade or economic
development ;
Functions of the
Authority.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) investigate or inquire into anti-competitive practices
and abuse of a dominant position ;
(c) maintain and promote effective competition between
persons supplying goods and services ;
(d) promote and protect the rights and interests of
consumers, purchasers and other users of goods and
services in respect of the price, availability and
quality of such goods and services and the variety
supplied ;
(e) to keep consumers informed about the quality,
quantity, potency, purity, standards and price of
goods and services made available for purchase ;
(f) carry out investigations and inquiries in relation to
any matter specified in this Act ;
(g) promote competitive prices in markets where
competition is less than effective ;
(h) undertake studies, publish reports and provide
information to the public relating to market
conditions and consumer affairs ;
(i) undertake public sector and private sector efficiency
studies ;
(j) promote consumer education with regard to good
health, safety and security of consumers ;
(k) promote the exchange of information relating to
market conditions and consumer affairs with other
institutions ;
(l) promote, assist and encourage the establishment of
consumer organizations ;
(m ) charge such fees in respect of any services rendered
by the Authority ;

<!-- page 6 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 20035
Authority may
undertake studies
on the distribution
of goods and
services.
Authority to issue
directions to
manufacturers or
traders in respect
of price marking,
labelling and
packeting of
goods.
(n) appoint any such committee or committees as may
be necessary to facilitate the discharge of the
functions of the Authority ; and
(o) do all such other acts as may be necessary for
attainment of the objects of the Authority and for
the effective discharge of the functions of such
Authority.
PART II
R
EGULATION  OF  TRADE
9. The Authority may—
(a) undertake such studies in respect of the sale or supply
of any class of goods and services as would ensure
the availability to the consumer of such goods and
services of satisfactory quality at reasonable prices
and in adequate quantities ;
(b) promote, assist and encourage the State or other
organisations including organisations of consumers,
for the purposes described in paragraph (a) ; and
(c) assist and encourage associations of traders to enter
into agreements with the Authority for the purposes
described in section 14.
10. (1) The Authority may, for the protection of the
consumer—
(a) issue general directions to manufacturers or traders
in respect of labelling, price marking, packeting, sale
or manufacture of any goods ; and
(b) issue special directions to any class of manufacturers
or traders, specifying—
(i) the times during which and the places at which,
such goods may be sold ; and

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(ii) any other conditions as to the manufacturing,
importing, marketing, storing, selling and
stocking, of any goods.
(2) Every direction issued by the Authority under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and in at least
one Sinhala, one Tamil and one English newspaper.
(3) Any manufacturer or trader who fails to comply with
any direction issued under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.
(4) Any person who removes, alters, obliterates, erases or
defaces any label, description or price mark on any goods in
respect of which a direction under subsection (1) has been
issued, or sells or offers for sale any such goods from or on
which the label, description or price mark has been removed,
altered, obliterated, erased or defaced, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.
11. Any person who sells or offers to sell any goods above
the price marked on the goods in accordance with a direction
issued under section 10, shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act.
12. (1) The Authority may for the purpose of protecting
the consumer and ensuring the quality of goods sold or services
provided, by Notification published in the Gazette, from time
to time, determine such standards and specifications relating to
the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation and
sale of any goods, and to the supply of any services.
(2) The Authority may by Notification published in the
Gazette adopt such standards and specifications prescribed
by the Sri Lanka Standards Institution established by the
Sri Lanka Standards Institution Act, No. 6 of 1984, relating
to the production, manufacture, supply, storage, transportation
and sale of any goods, and to the supply of any services, as
standards and specifications, to be determined under
subsection (1).
Selling or offering
to sell above the
marked price.
Determining
standards and
specifications
relating to goods
and supply of
services.

<!-- page 8 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 20037
Authority to
inquire into
complaints.
13. (1) The Authority may inquire into complaints
regarding—
(a) the production, manufacture, supply, storage,
transportation or sale of any goods and to the supply
of any services which does not conform to the
standards and specifications determined under
section 12 ; and
(b) the manufacture or sale of any goods which does
not conform to the warranty or guarantee given by
implication or otherwise, by the manufacturer or
trader.
(2) A complaint under subsection (1) which relates to the
sale of any goods or to the provision of any service shall be
made to the Authority in writing within three months of the
sale of such goods or the provisions of such service, as the
case may be.
(3) At any inquiry held into a complaint under subsection
(1), the Authority shall give the manufacturer or trader against
whom such complaint is made an opportunity of being heard
either in person or by an agent nominated in that behalf.
(4) Where after an inquiry into a complaint,  the Authority
is of opinion that a manufacture or sale of any goods or the
provision of any services has been made which does not conform
to the standards or specifications determined or deemed to be
determined by the Authority, or that a manufacture or sale has
been made of any goods not conforming to any warranty or
guarantee given by  implication or otherwise by the
manufacturer or trader, it shall order the manufacturer or trader
to pay compensation to the aggrieved party or to replace such
goods or to refund the amount paid for such goods or the
provision of such service, as the case may be.
(5) An order under subsection (4) shall be made in writing
and be communicated to such manufacturer or trader by
registered post.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(6) Where any manufacturer or trader fails or refuses to
comply with an order made under subsection (4) of this
section, such manufacturer or trader shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and the sum of money due on the order
as compensation or refund may, on application being made
in that behalf by the Authority to the Magistrate’s Court having
jurisdiction over the place of business or residence of such
manufacturer or trader as the case may be, be recovered in
like manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding
that such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which that
court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction, impose.
14. (1) The Authority may enter into such written
agreements as it may deem necessary, with any manufacturer
or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders
to provide for—
(a) the maximum price above which any goods shall
not be sold;
(b) the standards and specifications of any goods
manufactured, sold or offered for sale ;
(c) any other conditions as to the manufacture, import,
supply, storage, distribution, transportation,
marketing, labelling or sale of any goods.
(2) Every written agreement entered into under
subsection (1) between the Authority and any manufacturer
or trader or with any association of manufacturers or traders,
shall be binding on every authorised distributor of such
manufacturer or trader and every member of such association,
as though he was a party to such agreement and whether or
not he was a member at the time of entering into the agreement.
(3) Every manufacturer or trader or any authorised
distributor of such manufacturer or trader or any association
of manufacturers or traders or any member thereof, who
contravenes any provision of any agreement entered into with
the Authority under subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.
Agreement to
provide for
maximum price
&c. of goods.

<!-- page 10 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 20039
Refusal to sell
goods to be an
offence.
(4) Every agreement entered into with the Authority
under subsection (1), shall be registered with the Authority
and shall contain a schedule giving the name and description
of each authorised distributor of such manufacturer or trader
or members of such association, as the case may be.
(5) Every agreement entered into with the Authority
under subsection (1), shall come into force from the date of
such agreement, unless such agreement provides that the
agreement shall come into force on any subsequent date.
(6) Where the Authority thinks fit, it may cause any
agreement made under this section to be published in the
Gazette. Where an agreement is published in the Gazette, the
production of a copy of the Gazette in which such agreement
is published shall, until the contrary is proved, be proof of the
contents of such agreement.
(7) For the purpose of any prosecution under this section,
a certificate given by the Authority that any person is an
authorised distributor of any manufacturer or trader or is a
member of any association of traders or manufacturers shall
be admissible  and be prima facie proof in a court of law that
such person is an authorised distributor of such manufacturer
or trader or a member of such association.
15. (1) No trader who has in his possession or custody
or under his control any goods for  purpose of trade within
Sri Lanka, shall refuse to sell such goods.
(2) In any prosecution of any trader for the contravention
of the provisions of subsection (1), it shall be a sufficient
defence for the accused to prove that —
(a) on the occasion in question, he supplied a reasonable
quantity of the goods, or had not a sufficient quantity
in his possession to supply the quantity;
(b) he carried on business in the goods as a wholesale
trader only, and that the sale of the quantity
demanded by the buyer would have been contrary
to the normal practice of a wholesale business ; or

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(c) the sale of the goods on that occasion in question
would have been contrary to any provisions of any
written law or any general or special direction issued
to him by the Authority under section 10.
16. No trader who has in his possession or custody or
under his control any goods for purpose of trade within Sri
Lanka, shall —
(a) deny the possession of such goods ; or
(b) offer such goods for sale subject to a condition
requiring the purchase of any other goods or the
making of any payment in respect of any service or
to any other condition, other than the condition that
the buyer shall pay the price of such goods forthwith.
17. (1) No trader shall conceal in his place of business
or in any other place, any goods in such quantity as is in excess
of the normal trading requirements of such trader.
(2) No trader shall have in his possession or custody or
under his control in his place of business or in any other place,
any goods in such quantity in excess of —
(a) the quantity required for his personal consumption
and of the members of his household ; or
(b) the requirements of the normal trading activities of
such trader.
(3) No person other than a trader shall have in his
possession or custody or under his control any goods in such
quantity in excess of the normal personal requirements of such
person.
18. (1) Where the Minister is of opinion that any goods
or any service is essential to the life of the community or part
thereof, the Minister in consultation with the Authority may
by Order published in the Gazette prescribe such goods or
such service  as specified goods or specified service as the
case may be.
Denial of
possession of any
goods for
purposes of trade
or the sale of such
goods subject to
any condition to
be an offence.
Hoarding of goods
by any trader or
person to be an
offence.
Increase of retail
or wholesale price
of certain goods
and certain
services.

<!-- page 12 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200311
Director-General
to refer matters to
the Council.
(2) No manufacturer or trader shall increase the retail or
wholesale price of any goods or any service specified under
subsection (1), except with the prior written approval of the
Authority.
(3) A manufacturer or trader who seeks to obtain the
approval of the Authority under subsection (2), shall make an
application in that behalf to the Authority, and the Authority
shall, after holding such inquiry as it may consider
appropriate :—
(a) approve such increase where it is satisfied that the
increase is reasonable ; or
(b) approve any other increase as the Authority may
consider reasonable,
and inform the manufacturer or trader of its decision within
thirty days of the receipt of such application.
(4) Where the Authority fails to give a decision within
thirty days of the receipt of an application as required under
subsection (3), the manufacturer or trader who made the
application shall be entitled to, notwithstanding the provisions
of subsection (1), increase the price :
Provided however, where the delay in giving its decision
within the stipulated period was due to the failure of the
manufacturer or trader to give any assistance required by the
Authority in carrying out its inquiry into the application, the
Authority shall have the power to make an interim order
preventing the said manufacturer or trader from increasing the
price, until the Authority makes its decision on the application.
19. (1) Where it appears to the Director-General that any
goods are being sold or any services are being provided by a
manufacturer or trader at an excessive price or any market
manipulation or other market imperfection exists in respect
of such goods or services provided by such manufacturer or
trader, the Director-General may, in consultation with the
Authority as he may deem necessary and having regard to
whether —

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) the sale of such goods or the provision of such
services is of general economic importance ; or
(b) any category of consumers are significantly affected
by such excessive price,
refer such matter to the Council for  investigation and report.
(2) The Council shall conclude its investigation and submit
its report to the Director-General within two months of such
reference being made to it by the Director-General.
20. (1) Where any reference is made to the Council by
the Director-General under section 19, the Council shall cause
such reference to be brought to the notice of such persons,
who in the opinion of the Council would have an interest in
the proposed investigation to be carried out by it on such
reference, and shall further give such persons adequate notice
of the date on which the investigation is scheduled to
commence.
(2) For the purpose of carrying out an investigation, the
Council may by notice in writing require any person or any
one authorized by such person, to produce such documents
as may be specified in the notice, and at such time and place
as mentioned therein, which are under the custody or control
of such person and which relates to the matter under
investigation.
(3) At the conclusion of an investigation, the Council shall,
subject to the provisions of section 21, cause its decision with
its reasons to be published in such manner as it shall consider
appropriate, and submit a report on such investigation to the
Director-General as required under subsection (2) of
section 19.
(4) Where the Council concludes that the goods are being
sold or the services are being provided at an excessive price,
it shall recommend to the Authority in writing the maximum
price above which such goods should not be sold or such
services should not be provided or the price structure in
accordance with which such maximum price shall be fixed.
Investigation into
a reference made
under section 19.

<!-- page 14 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200313
Undertaking to be
given on a
reference made.
(5) On receipt of the recommendations of the Council
under subsection (4), the Authority shall, by order published
in the Gazette, fix the maximum price above which the goods
shall not be sold or the services shall not be provided. Every
order made under this subsection shall come into operation
on the date of publication of such Order in the Gazette.
(6) Nothing in this section shall be construed as
precluding the Council from proceeding with a subsequent
investigation which relates wholly or partly to the same matter
which was the subject matter of a previous investigation
carried out under this section.
(7) Any person aggrived by an order made by the
Authority under subsection (5) may appeal against such
decision to the Court of Appeal.
(8) Any document produced in compliance with a notice
issued under subsection (2) shall be considered confidential,
and nothing contained in such document shall be disclosed to
any person by the Council, except where it is required to do
so under any law.
21. (1) At anytime before making a recommendation
under subsection (4) of section 20, the Council may accept
any undertaking offered by a manufacturer or trader in respect
of whom the investigation is being carried out, regarding the
price at which the goods shall be sold or services shall be
provided as the case may be, by such manufacturer or trader.
(2) Where an undertaking given under subsection (1) is
accepted, it shall be the duty of the Council to —
(a) give adequate publicity to such undertaking in a
manner it considers appropriate ;
(b) periodically review the implementation of such
undertaking ;
(c) consider whether, by reason of any change in the
circumstances —

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(i) the undertaking has become no longer
appropriate   and as such the person should be
released from his duty to implement the
undertaking ;
(ii) whether any changes should be made to the
undertaking ; or
(iii) whether the existing undertaking should be
replaced by a fresh undertaking ; and
(d) give notice to the person giving such undertaking,
of any failure or shortcoming of such person in
implementing the undertaking.
(3) Where the Council is of the view that action should be
taken under paragraph (c) of subsection (2), the Council shall
issue a notice to the person who entered into the
undertaking, informing such person—
(a) of the changes required to be made to the
undertaking ;
(b) of the requirements of the fresh undertaking which
should replace the existing undertaking ; or
(c) of his release from the duty of implementing the
undertaking.
(4) The Council shall, after issue of a notice under
subsection (3), make a fresh decision—
(a) agreeing to a fresh undertaking, or to the undertaking
being changed, in accordance with the
recommendations made by the Council ; or
(b) agreeing to a fresh undertaking or to the undertaking
being changed as offered by the trader or
manufacturer on his own initiative.
(5) Where an undertaking given by a manufacturer or
trader is accepted by the Council under this section, any
violation of such undertaking by that manufactuer or trader,
shall be an offence under this Act.

<!-- page 16 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200315
Members of the
public,
associations or
organizations to
refer certain
matters to the
Director-General.
Trader to display
price list.
Advisory
reference.
Publication of a
report made under
this Act.
22. (1)  Where goods are being sold or services are being
provided at an excessive price and any member of the public
or any association of persons or any organisation wish the
Council to investigate into the matter, such member of the
public, association or organization, as the case may be, may
request the Director-General to refer the matter to the Council
for investigation.
(2) On receipt of a request under subsection (1) the
Director-General may, where he is of the opinion that it is a
matter which, having regard to the provisions of section 19
should be investigated into by the Council, refer the matter to
the Council for investigation and the provisions of sections
20 and 21 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to,
such investigation.
23. The Minister may, either of his own motion or on
representations made to him by a person or  body of persons,
refer any question relating to the price of any goods or the
charge for any service, to the Authority for examination and
report, and accordingly, the Authority shall examine such
question and send its report to the    Minister within one month
from the date of receipt of such reference.
24. The Authority may, either of its own motion or on
representations made to it by any person or body of persons,
review any question relating to the price of any goods or the
charge for any service and report thereon to the Minister.
25. The Minister may cause to be published any report
made to him under the provisions of this Act, or any
recommendations made in such report, in such manner as he
thinks fit.
26. (1) Every trader shall exhibit conspicuously in his
place of business, a notice specifying the maximum retail or
wholesale price, as the case may be, of goods available for
sale in his place of business other than the price of any goods,
the price of which is marked on the goods itself or on the
wrapper or pack containing it or marked in any other manner
as may be required by any law.
Authority to
review questions
relating to prices
of goods &c.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(2) A complete list of the price of goods available for sale
shall be kept within the place of business at all times for
inspection whenever required.
27. Every trader shall, register with the Authority on
payment of an annual fee of a sum not exceeding rupees one
hundred thousand as may be determined by the Minister, in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
28. Every trader who sells any goods shall on demand,
issue to the purchaser thereof, a receipt setting out—
(a) the date of the sale;
(b) the quantity of goods sold ;
(c) the price paid for such quantity;
(d) nature of the transaction, that is to say, whether the
sale was wholesale or retail; and
(e) any other requirements that may be imposed under
any law relating to the issue of receipts by a trader.
29. (1) Every trader shall keep in conspicuous place in
his place of business, a notice board for the display of any
notice, direction or warning issued by the Authority under
this Act.
(2) Every trader shall affix or cause to be affixed on such
notice board any notice, direction or warning issued to such
trader by the Authority under this Act.
(3) Any person who removes, alters, obliterates, erases or
defaces such notice, direction or warning other than a person
acting under the direction or authority of the Authority, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act.
30. No trader shall, in the course of a trade or business,
engage in any type of conduct that is misleading or deceptive
or is likely to mislead or deceive the consumer or any other
trader.
Registration of
traders.
Trader to issue
receipts to
purchasers.
Trader to furnish
notice board.
Misleading or
deceptive conduct.

<!-- page 18 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200317
31. Any trader who, in the course of a trade or business,
in connection with the supply or possible supply of goods or
services or in connection with the promotion by any means
of the supply or use of goods or services—
(a) falsely represents that goods or services are of a
particular standard, quality or grade, or that goods
are of a particular style or model ;
(b) falsely represents that goods are new ;
(c) represents that goods or services have sponsorship,
approval, performance, characteristics accessories,
uses or benefits they do not have ;
(d) represents that such trader has a sponsorship approval
or affiliation he does not have ;
(e) makes false or misleading statements concerning the
existence of, or amounts of  price reduction or price
increase ;
(f) makes false or misleading statements concerning the
need for any goods, services, replacements or
repairs ; or
(g) makes false or misleading statements concerning the
existence or effect of any warranty or guarantee,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
32. (1) In every contract for the supply of goods or  for
the provision of services by any person in the course of a
business of supply of such goods or provisions of such services
to a consumer, there is an implied warranty that—
(a) the services will be provided with due care and skill ;
(b) that any materials supplied in connection with
provision of such services will be reasonably fit for
the purpose for which they are supplied ;
(c) the goods supplied or services provided will be in
conformity with the standards and specifications
determined under section 12 of this Act ; and
False
representations.
Warranties in
relation to the
supply of  goods
or services.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(d) the goods supplied will be reasonably fit for the
purpose for which they are supplied.
(2) Where a trader or any person other than a trader
supplies any goods or provides any service to a consumer in
the course of a business and the consumer, expressly or by
implication, makes known to the trader or other person of
any particular purpose for which the goods or services are
required or the result that he desire the service to achieve,
there is an implied warranty that the services provided under
the contract for the provision of such services and any
materials supplied in connection with those services will be
reasonably fit for that purpose or are of such a nature and
quality that they might reasonably be expected to achieve that
result, except where circumstances show the consumer does
not rely, or that it is unreasonable for him to rely, on the trader’s
or such other person’s skill or judgement.
(3) A consumer aggrieved by the breach of an implied
warranty as provided for in subsection (1) or (2) may make a
complaint to the Authority in writing against such breach
within one month of the supply of such goods or the provision
of such services as the case may be, or the supply of materials
supplied in connection with the provision of those services.
(4) At any inquiry held into a complaint made under
subsection (3), the Authority shall give the trader or other
person against whom the complaint is made, an opportunity
of being heard either in person or by an agent on his behalf.
(5) Where after the inquiry the Authority is of opinion
that a breach of an implied warranty has taken place, it shall
order the trader or other person to pay compensation to the
aggrieved party or refund the amount paid for the supply of
such goods or provision of such services as the case may be,
and for the supply of any materials in connection with the
provision of those services, within such period as shall be
specified in the order.
(6) An order under subsection (5) shall be made in writing
and communicated to such trader or other person by registered
post.

<!-- page 20 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200319
(7) Where a trader or any other person against whom an
order is made under subsection (5) fails or refuses to pay such
compensation or to refund the amount required to be paid as
the case may be, within the period specified in the order, such
sum may, on application being made in that behalf by the
Authority to the Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction over
the place of business or residence of the trader or such other
person against whom the order was made, be recovered in
like manner as a fine imposed by such court, notwithstanding
that such sum may exceed the amount of a fine which that
Court may, in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.
33. At the request of the Minister, the Authority shall
carry out a public sector and private sector efficiency study
and submit a report to the Minister. It shall be the duty of the
Minister to place such report before Parliament.
PART III
PROMOTION  OF  COMPETITION  AND  CONSUMER  INTEREST
34. (1) The  Authority may either of its own motion or
on a complaint or request made to it by any person, any
organization of consumers or an association of traders, carry
out an investigation with respect to the prevalence of any anti-
cometitive practice.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Authority to complete an
investigation under subsection (1), within one hundred days
of its initiation.
35. For the purpose of section 34, an anti-competitive
practice shall be deemed to prevail, where a person in the
course of business, pursues a course of conduct which of itself
or when taken together with a course of condut pursued by
persons associated with him, has or is intended to have or is
likely to have the effect of restricting, distorting or preventing
competition in  connection with the production, supply or
acquisition of goods in Sri Lanka or the supply or securing of
services in Sri Lanka.
Public efficiency
reports.
Anti-competitive
practice.
Authority to carry
out investigations
into anti-
competitive
practices.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
36. (1) The Authority may give to all persons including
representatives of associations or organisations of consumers
interested in a matter which forms the subject of an
investigation under section 34, an opportunity of being heard
and of producing such evidence, oral or documentary, as in
the opinion of the Authority is relevant to such matter.
(2) For the purpose of conducting an investigation under
section 33, the Authority shall have all the powers of a District
Court—
(a) to issue notices and require the attendance of any
witness ;
(b) to require the production of documents or records ;
and
(c) to administer any oath or affirmation to any witness.
(3) Where any person—
(a) without sufficient reason publishes any statement or
does anything during the progress or after the
conclusion of any investigation, which may bring
the Authority or any member thereof into
disrepute ; or
(b) interferes with the lawful process of the Authority ;
or
(c) in the course of an investigation—
(i) fails without cause, to appear before the
Authority at the time and place specified in
any notice issued by the Authority to such
person ; or
(ii) refuses to be sworn or affirmed or having been
duly sworn or affirmed refuses or fails without
cause, to answer any questions put to him
relating to the matter being investigated by the
Authority ; or
Provisions
relating to an
investigation
under section 34.

<!-- page 22 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200321
Authority to
make an
application to the
Council.
Council to
entertain
applications made
by any person or
association of
traders.
(iii) refuses or fails without cause, to produce and
show to the Authority any document or record
which is in his possession or control, and which
in the opinion of the Authority is relevant to the
matter being investigated by the Authority,
such person shall be guilty of an offence of contempt
against or in disrespect of the Authority and shall be punishable
for such offence by the Court of Appeal.
(4) Where the Authority determines that a person had
committed any offence of contempt against or in disrespect
of its authority, the Authority may cause the Director-General
to transmit to the Court of Appeal a certificate setting out its
determination and every such certificate shall be signed by
the Chairman of the Authority.
(5) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offence
of contempt which the Court of Appeal may think fit to take
cognisance of as provided in subsection (3), any document
purporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to the
Court of Appeal under subsection (4), shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts stated in the determination set out therein,
and be conclusive evidence that such determination was made
by the Authority.
37. (1) Upon the conclusion of an investigation under
section 34, the Authority may make an application to the
Council for purpose of determining on such matter.
(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall be
made in writing and shall be in such form as may be prescribed
for that purpose.
38. Where upon conclusion of an investigation by the
Authority under section 34, the Authority decides not to make
an application to the Council under section 37 in respect of
such investigation, the person, any orgnisation of consumers or
association of traders, as the case may be, on whose complaint
or request such investigation was caried out, may by application
in writing addressed to the Council, request the Council to—

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) call upon the Authority to submit to the Council its
report on the investigation ; and
(b) hear and determine such application, where the
Council is of opinion that there is sufficient material
in the report to warrant the Council to take up such
application for determination.
PART IV
C
ONSUMER  AFFAIRS  COUNCIL
39. (1) There shall be established for the purpose of this
Act a Council to be  known as the “Consumer Affairs Council”.
(2) The Council shall consist of the following persons who
shall be appointed by the Minister :—
(a) one person who has had wide experience in the field
of commercial law ;
(b) one person who has had wide experience in the
management of business enterprises ; and
(c) an economist with wide experience in trade practices
and consumer affairs.
(3) The members of the Council shall hold office for a
period of three years and the Minister shall nominate one of
the members to be its Chairman.
(4) The members of the Council shall be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister, in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
(5) There shall be appointed a Secretary to the Council
who shall be responsible for maintaining records of all
proceedings of the Council, and for sending out any notices
required to be sent by the Council under this Act.
Establishment and
constitution of a
Consumer Affairs
Council.

<!-- page 24 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200323
Function of the
Council.
Order to be made
by the Council.
40. (1) The function of the Council shall be to  hear and
determine all applications and references made to it under
this Act.
(2) Where a decision of the Council is not unanimous,
the decision of the majority of the members shall be deemed
to be the decision of the Council.
41. (1) Where an application is made to the Council under
section 37 or section 38, as the case may be, the Council shall,
on being satisfied that —
(a) an anti-competitive practice exists but such anti-
competitive  practice does not operate or is not likely
to operate against public interest, by order made in
that behalf, authorise such anti-competitive
practice ; or
(b) an anti-competitive practice exists and that it operates
against public interest, by order made in that behalf,
provide for —
(i) the termination of such anti-competitive
practice in such manner as may be specified
in the order ; and
(ii) such other action as the Council may consider
necessary for the purpose of remedying or
preventing the adverse effects of any anti-
competitive practice.
(2) In determining for the purposes of this section, whether
any anti-competitive practice operates, or is likely to operate,
against public interest, the Council shall take into account all
matters which appear to the Council to be relevant to the matter
under investigation and shall have special regard to the
desirability of —

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) maintaining and promoting effective competition
between persons supplying goods and providing
services ;
(b) promoting the interests of consumers, purchasers and
other users of goods and services in respect of the
price and quality of such goods and services and the
variety of goods supplied and services provided in
Sri Lanka ; and
(c) promoting through competition the reduction of
costs, the development and use of new techniques
and products and facilitating the entry of new
competitors into existing markets.
(3) Where an application is made to the Council under
section 37 or section 38, as the case may be, it shall be the
duty of the Council to make its order on such application,
within one month of its receipt.
42. The Authority may cause to be published any order
made by the Council under section 41, in such manner as it
thinks fit.
43. (1) The Council shall have the power to issue notices
and examine witnesses at any inquiry or investigation
conducted by the Council. Every notice shall be issued under
the hand of the Secretary to the Council.
(2) A notice may be issued by delivering it to the person
named therein, or if that is not practicable, by leaving it at the
last known place of abode of that person.
(3) Every person to whom a notice is issued shall
attend before the Council at the time and place mentioned
therein, and shall give evidence or produce such
documents, records or other things as are required of him and
are in his possession or power, according to the tenor of the
notice.
Publication of an
order made under
section 41.
Power to issue
notices to
witnesses.

<!-- page 26 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200325
Evidence.
Failure to obey a
notice issued or to
give evidence &c.
44. (1) The Council shall for the purpose of any inquiry
or investigation under this Act have power —
(a) to procure and receive all such evidence written or
oral, and to examine all such persons as witnesses,
as it may think necessary or desirable to procure,
receive or examine ; and
(b) to require the evidence, whether written or oral of
any witness to be given on oath or affirmation and
such oath or affirmation to be that which would be
required of that witness if he was giving evidence in
a court, and to administer an oath or affirmation to
every such witness.
(2) In the conduct of proceedings under this Act, the
Council shall not be bound by any of the provisions of the
Evidence Ordinance.
45. If any person upon whom a notice is issued under
section 43 —
(a) fails without cause which in the opinion of the
Council is reasonable, to appear before the  Council
at the time and place mentioned in the notice ;
(b) refuses to be sworn-in or affirmed, or having been
duly sworn-in or affirmed, refuses or fails without
cause which in the opinion of the Council is
reasonable, to answer any questions put to him
relating to the matters being inquired or investigated
into by the Council ; or
(c) refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinion
of the Council is reasonable, to produce to the
Council any document or other thing which is in his
possession or power and which is in the opinion of
the Council necessary for arriving at the truth of the
matters to be inquired or investigated into,
such person shall be  guilty of the offence of contempt against
or in disrespect of, the Council.

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
46. (1) Any act or omission in contravention of the
provisions of section 45 shall constitute an offence of contempt
against, or in disrespect of the Council, if such  act or omission
would if done or omitted to be done in   relation to the Court
of Appeal, have constituted an offence of   contempt against,
or in disrespect of the authority of such Court.
(2) Where the Council determines that a person has
committed an offence of contempt against or in disrespect of
its authority, the Council may cause its Chairman to transmit
to the Court of Appeal a certificate setting out such
determination. Every such certificate shall be signed by the
Chairman of the Council.
(3) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offence
of contempt which the Court of Appeal may think fit to take
cognisance of as provided for in this section, any document
purporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to such
Court under subsection (2), shall—
(a) be received in evidence, and be deemed to be such a
certificate without further proof unless, the contrary
is proved; and
(b) be evidence that the determination set out in the
certificate was made by the Council on the facts
stated in the determination.
(4) In any proceeding taken as provided for in this section
for the punishment of any alleged offence of contempt against
or in disrespect of the Council, any member of the Council
may be summoned or examined as a witness and any such
proceeding shall be heard and disposed of within  three months
of the receipt of the certificate referred to in subsection (2).
47. Every person who gives evidence before the Council
shall in respect of such evidence, be entitled to all the privileges
to which a witness giving evidence before a court of law is
entitled to in respect of evidence given by him before such
court.
Punishment for
offence of
contempt.
Privileges of
witnesses.

<!-- page 28 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200327
Procedure to be
laid down by the
Council.
48. The Council may determine the procedure to be
followed in the conduct of any inquiry or investigation before
such Council.
PART V
F
UND  OF  THE  AUTHORITY
49. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority —
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from
time to time by Parliament for the use of the
Authority ;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority by way of fees or otherwise in the
discharge  of its  functions ;
(c) the proceeds from the sale of any goods forfeited
under this Act ;
(d) one-third of every fine imposed for the commission
of any offence under this Act ;
(e) all such sums of money as may be made available to
it by way of grant or donations ; and
(f) all such sums of money as are credited or
transferred to the Fund under section 59 or
section 73.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund —
(a) remuneration payable to the members of the
Authority and of the Council ;
Fund of the
Authority.

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) such sums as the Authority may consider     necessary
for the promotion, assistance and encouragement of
consumer organizations and the administration and
development of such organizations ;
(c) such sums as the Authority may consider necessary
for consumer education and the dissemination of
information relating thereto, and for any purpose
connected with or incidental to the furtherance of
such education ; and
(d) such sums of money as may be required to defray
the expenses incurred by the Authority and the
Council in the exercise, discharge and
performance of its powers, functions and duties
under this Act.
50. (1) The Financial year of the Authority shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Authority.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in respect of the audit of the accounts of
the Authority.
51. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of
1971, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial control
and accounts of the Authority.
PART VI
STAFF  OF  THE  AUTHORITY
52. (1) The Authority may with the approval in
writing of the Minister, appoint a Director-General to the
Authority (in this Act referred to as the “Director-General”).
(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1)
shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority, and shall
at all times act under the directions of the Authority.
Financial year
and the audit of
accounts.
Director-General
of the Authority.
Application of
Part II of the
Finance Act, No.
38 of 1971.

<!-- page 30 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200329
(3) Director-General shall be paid such remuneration as
may be determined by the Authority in consultation with the
Minister.
(4) Whenever the Director-General is by reason of illness
or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause, unable to
perform the duties of his office, the Authority may, with the
approval in writing to the Minister, appoint some other person
to act in his place, during such absence.
53. The Authority may appoint such number of Directors,
Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors and other officers,
servants and advisers as are necessary for the performance of
the work of the Authority and of the Council, who shall be
remunerated at such rates as may be determined by the
Authority in consultation with the Minister.
54. (1)   At the request of the Authority, any officer in
the public service may, with the consent of that officer and
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Authority for such period as may be
determined by the Authority, with like consent, or with like
consent be permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply  and in relation to him.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to him.
(4) Where the Authority employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,  service
to the Authority by that person shall be regarded as service to
the Government for the purpose of discharging the obligations
under such agreement.
Appointment of
officers, servants
and advisers to the
Authority.
Appointment of
public officers to
the staff of the
Authority.

<!-- page 31 -->

30 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
PART VII
G ENERAL
55. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
provisions of this Act, the Authority may, if it is satisfied after
such inquiry as it may deem necessary that any person has
contravened any of the provisions of this Act or any direction
given thereunder, in the case of the first contravention, send
to such person a warning in writing.
(2) A warning under subsection (1) shall be sent by the
Authority by registered post.
56. (1) The Authority may, for the proper   discharge of
its functions under this Act, require the manufacturers,
importers, distributors and exporters of any goods or
services—
(a) to maintain records in respect of such
matters as the Authority may consider
necessary for  the proper discharge of its functions
under this Act and in such form as may be determined
by the Authority; and
(b) to furnish to the authority returns in respect of
such matters as the Authority may consider
necessary for the proper  discharge of its functions
under this Act, at such intervals and in such form as
may be determined by the Authority.
(2) It shall be the duty of all manufacturers, importers,
distributors and exporters who are required under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) to maintain records, to preserve the
records being so maintained, for a period not exceeding six
years.
Power of
Authority to send
warning.
Power to require
maintenance of
records and the
furnishing of
returns.

<!-- page 32 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200331
Power of
Authority to call
for information.
Power of entry,
inspection and
search.
57. (1) The Authority or any person authorised in that behalf
by the Authority may, by notice in writing require any person
within such period as shall be specified in the notice, to furnish
any information or to produce any document as shall be specified
in such notice, which the Authority may consider necessary for
the proper discharge of its functions under this Act, and it shall
be the duty of any person who receives such notice to comply
with such requirement within the time specified in such notice,
notwithstanding the provisions of any written law which may
prohibit such person from disclosing such information or from
producing such document :
Provided however, that nothing in this subsection shall be
read and construed as enabling the Authority or any person
authorised in that behalf by the Authority, by notice to require
any person to furnish any information or to produce any
document, if the disclosure of such information or the production
of such document is prohibited by any provision of any law
providing for the imposition and recovery of any tax.
(2) No information contained in a return furnished under
section 56 and no information furnished or the contents of a
document produced in compliance with the terms of a notice
issued under this section, shall be published or communicated
by the Authority to any other person except with the consent
of the person furnishing such return or information, or
producing such document, as the case may be, or in the course
of the discharge of its functions by the Authority.
58. (1) The Authority or any other officer authorised in
writing in that behalf by the Authority may, for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the provisions of this Act or any regulation
made thereunder are being complied with, have the power on
reasonable grounds and on production, if so required, his
credentials —
(a) to enter, inspect and search at all reasonable hours of
the day the premises in which any manufacturer or
trader is carrying on his business or any other premises
where any goods are being stored or exposed for sale ;

<!-- page 33 -->

32 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) to seize and detain any goods found in such premises in
contravention of the provisions of section 16 or 17 ; and
(c) to inspect, take copies of or seize and detain any
records or documents required to be kept by or under
this Act or any other law in respect of such business.
(2) Any goods seized and detained under paragraph (b)
of subsection (1),  shall be produced in court, and on conviction
of such manufacturer or trader, be forfeited and disposed of
in such manner as may be determined by court, and any money
realised shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.
59.  (1) Where any goods seized and detained under
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 58, is of such
perishable nature, as in the opinion of the Authority render their
immediate sale necessary or advisable, the Authority shall give
not less than three days notice of the sale of such goods by an
advertisement published in one Sinhala, Tamil and English
newspaper each circulating in Sri Lanka and thereafter cause
such goods to be sold.
(2) The proceeds of a sale under subsection (1) of any
goods, shall be credited to a special account to be maintained
for that purpose by the Authority, and where the person from
whom the goods were seized is acquitted or discharged
subsequently by the court, the amount realised from the sale
of such goods shall be given to such person.
(3) Where the court convicts the person from whom the
goods were seized, the money realised from the sale of such
goods and lying to the credit of the special account referred
to in subsection (2), shall be credited to the Fund of the
Authority.
60. (1) Any person who. —
(a) fails or refuses to furnish .—
(i) a return when required by the Authority to do so
under section 56 ; or
Sale of perishable
goods.
offences and
Penalties.

<!-- page 34 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200333
(ii) any information or to produce any document
when required to do so by a notice sent under
section 57;
(b) knowingly makes any false statement in any return
furnished by him under this Act, or knowingly
furnishes any false information when required by the
Authority to furnish any information ; or
(c) obstructs any officer acting in the exercise of his
powers under section 58,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall on
conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable —
(i) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees one thousand and not exceeding
rupees five thousand or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding three months or
to both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a
first offence, and to a fine not less than rupees two
thousand and not exceeding rupees ten thousand or to
an imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or
(ii) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees five thousand and not exceeding
rupees ten thousand in the case of a first offence, and
to a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and not
exceeding rupees twenty thousand in the case of a
subsequent offence.
(2) (a)  Any person who fails or refuses to comply with
an order made under paragraph (b)  of subsection (1) of section
41 or acts in contravention of such order, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall on conviction after trial before
a Magistrate be liable —

<!-- page 35 -->

34 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(i) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees five thousand and not exceeding
rupees fifty thousand or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a
first offence, and to a fine not less than rupees ten
thousand and not exceeding rupees one hundred
thousand or to an imprisonment of either description
for a term not exceeding two years or to both such
fine and imprisonment in the case of a subsequent
offence ; or
(ii) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees fifty thousand and not exceeding
rupees one million in the case of a first offence, and
to a fine not less than rupees one hundred thousand
and not exceeding rupees two million in the case of
subsequent offence.
(b) The court may in addition, order such persons to refrain
from carrying on the activities in respect of which an order
has been made under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section
41 for such period as may be determined by such court or
until such person complies with the order made under that
paragraph.
(3) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act by
reason of a contravention of the provisions of section 15 or
section 16 or section 17 shall, on conviction after trial before
a Magistrate, be liable —
(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees one thousand and not exceeding
rupees ten thousand or to an imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a first
offence, and to a fine not less than rupees two thousand
and not exceeding rupees twenty thousand or to an

<!-- page 36 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200335
imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or
(b) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupees
fifty thousand in the case of a first offence, and to a
fine not less than rupees one hundred thousand and
not exceeding rupees two hundred thousand in the case
of a subsequent offence.
(4) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act by
reason of a contravention of the provisions of section 18 shall,
on conviction after trial before a Magistrate, be liable —
(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees five thousand and not exceeding
rupees fifty thousand or to an imprisonment of either
discrpition for a term not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a first
offence, and to a fine not less than rupees ten thousand
and not exceeding rupees one hundred thousand or to
an imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or
(b) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than rupees fifty thousand and not exceeding
rupees one million in the case of a first offence, and
to a fine not less than rupees one hundred thousand
and not exceeding rupees two million in the case of a
subsequent offence.
(5) Every person who acts in contravention of any
provision of this Act, (other than the provisions referred to in
subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of this section) or any
requirements imposed under any such provision, or any
regulations made under section 72, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and shall, on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate, be liable —

<!-- page 37 -->

36 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than rupees one thousand and not exceeding
rupees ten thousand or to an imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment in the case of a first
offence, and to a fine not less than rupees two thousand
and not exceeding rupees twenty thousand or to an
imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment in the case of a subsequent offence ; or
(b) where such person is a body corporate to a fine not
less than rupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupees
one hundred thousand in the case of a first offence,
and to a fine not less than rupees twenty thousand and
not exceeding rupees two hundred thousand in the case
of a subsequent offence.
(6) The Authority may publish or cause to be published
in such manner as it shall deem fit, the names and addresses
of all persons convicted under this Act.
(7) Where any offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then —
(a) if the body of persons is a body corporate,
every director and officer of such body corporate ;
and
(b) if the body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm,
shall be deemed guilty of that offence :
Provided that no such director, officer or partner shall be
deemed guilty of that offence if he proves that such
offence was committed without his knowledge or that he
exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such
offence.

<!-- page 38 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200337
Obtaining samples
for purpose of
ensuring
compliance with
standards and
specifications.
61. (1) The Authority may where it has reason to believe
that any goods that are being sold do not conform to the
standards and specifications laid down under section 12 of
this Act—
(a) authorize an officer in writing to obtain a sample of
such goods —
(i) from any premises in which a manufacturer or
trader of such goods are carrying on his business ;
(ii) from any premises where any such goods are
being stored or exposed for sale ; or
(iii) from any vehicle in which such goods are being
transported ; and
(b) issue a directive to the manufacturer or trader from
whose possession such sample was obtained, to refrain
from selling or exposing for sale the goods concerned
for a period to be specified in the directive, so however
such period shall not exceed a period of six weeks
from the date of the issue of such directive.
(2) It shall be the duty of the officer who obtained the
sample to forthwith submit it to an approved analyst for
purpose of determining whether such goods conforms to the
standards and specifications laid down under section 12, and
the said approved analyst may, except in exceptional
circumstances, submit his report to the Authority within a
period not exceeding one month of the receipt of the sample.
(3) On receipt of the report of an approved analyst, the
Authority shall —
(a) where it discloses that the goods concerned conforms
to the standards and specifications laid down under
section 12, forthwith remove the restriction imposed
by the directive issued under subsection (1) ; or

<!-- page 39 -->

38 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) where it discloses that the goods do not conform to
the standards and specifications laid down under
section 12 of this Act and that such non conformity
has resulted in the goods concerned being rendered
unfit for any use or consumption, seize and detain such
goods or consignment of goods as the case may be.
(4) Where any goods or consignment of goods are seized
and detained under paragraph (b) of subsection (3) from any
manufacturer or trader as the case may be, such manufacturer
or trader shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(5) In a prosecution for an offence under this section, a
certificate issued under the hand of an officer authorised by
the Director-General in writing to analyse any goods for the
purpose of this section, stating the ingredients or the
composition of the goods in relation to which the offence is
alleged to have been committed, shall be admissible in
evidence and shall be prima facie proof of the statements made
therein.
(6) A prosecution for an offence under this section shall
not be instituted except by or with the written sanction of the
Director-General.
(7) For the purpose of this section, an “approved analyst”
means a person who is qualified to perform such function
and approved by the Director-General.
62. (1) Where in a conviction for an offence under
subsection (4) of section 61 it is proved that the non-
conformity with the standards and specifications has rendered
the goods or consignment of goods unfit for any use or for
consumption, then —
(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the High Court of
the relevant Province established by Article 154P of
the Constitution, against the relevant conviction within
the time allowed therefor ; or
General forfeiture.

<!-- page 40 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200339
Priority to be
given for cases
under section 61.
Protection for
action taken under
this Act.
(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the High Court of
the relevant Province established by Article 154P of
the Constitution, against the relevant conviction, and
the conviction is affirmed,
the court shall order that such goods or consignment of goods
be forfeited to the State to be destroyed in such manner as the
court may direct.
(2) Where in an action for an offence referred to in
subsection (1), the accused is acquitted for the reason that it
was not proved to the satisfaction of the court that the non-
conformity with the standards and specifications has rendered
the goods or consignment of goods unfit for any use or
consumption, then —
(a) if no appeal has been preferred to the High Court of
the relevant Province established by Article 154P of
the Constitution, against the relevant acquittal within
the time allowed therefor ; or
(b) if an appeal has been preferred to the High Court
of the relevant Province established by Article
154P of the Constitution, against the relevant
acquittal and the acquittal is affirmed by the Court of
Appeal,
the court shall order the release of goods or consignment of
goods seized.
63. Every court shall give priority to the disposal of any
case filed under section 61 before such court, and to the
hearing of any appeal from any conviction against any order
imposed on such conviction.
64. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted—
(a) against the Authority for any act which in good faith
is done or purported to be done by the Authority
under this Act ; or

<!-- page 41 -->

40 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(b) against any member, Director-General, Director,
Deputy Director, Assistant Director, officer, servant
or adviser of the Authority or any member of the
Council, for any act which in good faith is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or on the
directions of the Authority or the Council as the case
may be.
65. (1) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any
suit or prosecution brought by or against the Authority before
any court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, and
any costs paid to or recovered by the Authority in any such
suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the
Authority.
(2) Any expenses incurred by any member,
Director-General, Director, Deputy Director, Assistant
Director, officer, servant or adviser of the Authority or any
member of the Council in any suit or prosecution brought by
or against such person before any court, in respect of any act
which is done or purported to be done by such person under
this Act or on the directions of the Authority or Council shall,
if the court holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid
out of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expenses are
recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.
66. All members of the Authority and the Council,
Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant
Directors, officers, servants and advisers of the Authority shall
be deemed to be —
(a) public servants within the meaning of, and for the
purposes of the Penal Code ; and
(b) public servant within the meaning of section 136 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
for the purpose of instituting proceedings in respect
of offences under this Act.
Expenses to be
paid out of the
Fund.
Members of the
Authority and the
Council and
officers and
servants of the
Authority deemed
to be public
servants.

<!-- page 42 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200341
The Authority and
the council deemed
to be Scheduled
Institutions within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.
Rewards to certain
persons.
Offences to be
cognizable
offences.
Certain officers to
be peace officers.
Regulations.
67. The Authority and the Council shall be deemed to
be Scheduled Institutions within the meaning of the Bribery
Act and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.
68. Where any offence under this Act is committed by
an agent or servant of any manufacturer or trader, such offence
shall be deemed to have been committed by such manufacturer
or trader, unless he proves that such offence was committed
without his knowledge.
69. Where any person is convicted of any offence under
this Act or where any goods are seized and ordered to be
forfeited under this Act, the Authority may pay —
(a) to the person who provided the information leading
to such conviction or the seizure and forfeiture of such
goods ; and
(b) to any person who was concerned in the detection of
such offence or effecting the seizure and forfeiture of
such goods,
such amount as it may deem reasonable, as a reward.
70. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, every offence
under this Act, shall be deemed to be a cognizable offence
within the meaning and for the purposes of that Code.
71. The Director-General, Directors, Deputy Directors
and Assistant Directors of the Authority shall be deemed to
be peace officers within the meaning of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 for the purpose of exercising
any of the powers conferred upon peace officers by that Code.
72. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorised by this Act to be made.
Principal liable for
offences of agents
and servants.

<!-- page 43 -->

42 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) prescribing the manner in which meetings of the
Authority shall be convened ;
(b) prescribing the manner of conduct of meetings of the
Authority ;
(c) prescribing the persons by whom, and the manner in
which, the expenses of witnesses notified to attend
inquiries and investigations held by the Authority and
the Council are to be paid.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(5)  Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded, shall be published
in the Gazette.
73. (1) (a) The Consumer Protection Act, No. 1 of 1979
is hereby repealed.
(b) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act—
(i) (aa) every scheme of distribution published
under section 3 of the repealed Act ;
(bb) every general direction issued by the
Commissioner of Internal Trade under
section 6 of the repealed Act ;
Repeal of
Consumer
Protection Act,
No. 1 of 1979,
Fair Trading
Commission Act,
No. 1 of 1987,
Control of Prices
Act, (Chapter
173) and savings.

<!-- page 44 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200343
(cc) every standard and specification
determined by the Commissioner of
Internal Trade under section 8 of the
repealed Act ; and
(dd) every written agreement entered into by the
Commissioner of Internal Trade with any
manufacturer, trader or any association of
manufacturers or traders under section 10
of the repealed Act,
and in force on the day prior to the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be
a scheme published, direction issued, standard and
specification determined and written agreement
entered into by the Authority ;
(ii)all moneys lying to the credit of the Consumer
Protection Fund established under section 33A of
the repealed Act on the day immediately prior to the
date of commencement of this Act, shall stand
transferred with effect from that date, to the Fund
established under this Act ;
(iii) every regulations made by the Minister under section
34 of the repealed Act and in force on the date of
commencement of this Act and which is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall be
deemed to be regulations made under this Act, and
may accordingly be amended, added to or rescinded,
by regulations made under this Act ;
(iv) all suits and prosecutions instituted under the
repealed Act by or against the Attorney-General as
representing the Department of Internal Trade in his
official capacity, in any court or tribunal and pending
on the day prior to the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be deemed to be suits and prosecutions
instituted by or against the Authority and may be
continued accordingly ;

<!-- page 45 -->

44 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(v) all decrees and orders entered or made by any
competent court in favour of or against the Attorney-
General as representing the Department of Internal
Trade in his official capacity and remaining
unsatisfied on the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to have been entered or made in
favour of or against the Authority and may be
enforced accordingly ; and
(vi) all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred
and all matters and things engaged to be done by
with or on behalf of the Department of Internal Trade
shall be deemed to have been incurred, and engaged
to be done by, with or on behalf of the Authority.
(2) (a) The Fair Trading Commission Act, No. 1 of 1987
is hereby repealed.
(b) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act—
(i) all moneys lying to the credit of the Fund established
under section 30 of the repealed Act, on the day
immediately prior to the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be transferred to the Fund of the
Authority established under this Act ;
(ii) all inquiries and investigations pending before the
Fair Trading Commission on the day prior to the date
of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to
be inquiries and investigations pending before the
Authority under the provisions of this Act, and may
accordingly be continued and concluded before such
Authority under the provisions of this Act ;
(iii) all requests made under section 18 of the repealed
Act and all questions referred to the Fair Trading
Commission under the repealed Act and pending
before such Commission, on the day prior to the date
of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to

<!-- page 46 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200345
be requests made and questions referred to the
Authority under this Act, and may accordingly be
inquired into and examined by the Authority under
the provisions of this Act ;
(iv) all orders made and reports submitted by the Fair
Trading Commission under the provisions of the
repealed Act, shall be deemed to be orders made,
and reports submitted by the Authority under the
provisions of this Act ;
(v) all suits and prosecutions instituted by or against
the Fair Trading Commission in any court or
tribunal and pending on the day prior to the
date of commencement of this Act shall be
deemed to be suits and prosecutions instituted by or
against the Authority and may be continued
accordingly ;
(vi) all decrees and orders entered or made by any
competent court in favour of or against the Fair
Trading Commission and remaining unsatisfied on
the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
deemed to have been entered or made in favour of
or against the Authority as the case may be, and may
be enforced accordingly ;
(vii) every regulation made by the Minister under the
repealed Act and in force on the date of
commencement of this Act and which is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall be
deemed to be a regulation made under this Act and
may accordingly be amended, added to, or rescinded
by regulations made under this Act ;
(viii) all officers and servants of the Commission on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act—

<!-- page 47 -->

46 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(a) who are offered employment with the
Authority and accepts such offer, shall be
employed therein on such terms and conditions
as are not less favourable than the terms and
conditions of employment that were applicable
to them on the day immediately preceding the
date of commencement of this Act ; or
(b) who are not offered employment with the
Authority or who are offered such employment
and who do not accept such offer, shall be
entitled to the payment of such compensation
as may be determined by the Minister ; and
(ix) all debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred
and all contracts and agreements executed or entered
into and all matters and things engaged to be done
by, with or for the Fair Trading Commission shall
be deemed to have been incurred, executed, entered
into and engaged to be done by, with or for the
Authority.
(3) The Control of Prices Act, (Chapter 173) is hereby
repealed.
74. From and after the commencement of this Act,
every reference to “Price Control Inspector” in any written
law, shall be read and construed as a reference to the relevant
officer of the Authority, assigned by the Authority to
perform the functions relating to the regulation of the pricing
of goods.
75. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“consumer” means any actual or potential user of any goods
or services made available for a consideration by
any trader or manufacturer ;
“Council” means the Consumer Affairs Council established
by section 39 of this Act ;
Interpretaion.
Reference to
“Price Control
Inspector” to be a
reference to
relevant officer in
the Authority.

<!-- page 48 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200347
“fuel” includes all petroleum products in liquid or gaseous
form, oil, other gases, coal or lubricants ;
“goods” means any food, drink, pharmaceutical, fuel and
all other merchandise ;
“local authority” means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council, Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any law
to exercise, perform and discharge, powers, duties
and functions corresponding to or similar to the
powers, duties and functions exercised, performed
and discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;
“price” means a charge of any description ;
“Provincial Council” means a Provincial
Council established under Chapter XVIIA of the
Constitution ;
“manufacturer” means any person who—
(a) makes any article or any goods ;
(b) assembles or joins any article or any goods
whether by chemical process or otherwise ; or
(c) adapts for sale any article or any goods ;
 “service” means service of any description which is made
available to actual or potential users, and includes—
(a) banking, financing, insurance, shipping and
entertainment ;
(b) the construction, production, manufacture,
supply, storage, maintenance, repair, treatment,
cleaning, processing or alteration of goods ;

<!-- page 49 -->

48 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
(c) services in connection with the import, export
or distribution of goods  ;
(d) the transportation of goods and passengers ;
(e) the cleaning of buildings and building premises ;
(f) the sale and supply of any utility services including
electricity, water, gas and telecommunication ;
(g) the provision of information technology and
communications ;
(h) professional services such as accounting,
auditing, legal, medical and health, surveying,
architecture and engineering.
“trader” means any person who—
(a) sells or supplies goods wholesale to other
persons ;
(b) sells or supplies goods at retail rates to
consumers ;
(c) imports goods for the purpose of sale or supply ;
(d) provides services for a consideration.
76. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
77. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in the preceding provisions of this Act, the provisions of this
Act relating to anti-competitive practices, shall not apply to
the supply of goods or services by any person who is supplying
such goods or services under an agreement entered into with
the government and which is in force on the date of
commencement of this Act, during the period of its validity as
specified in that agreement as on such date of commencement.
Sinhala text to
prevail in the
event of any
inconsistency.
Exemption of
existing
agreements.

<!-- page 50 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200349
Leave or absence
of members.
Term of office of
members.
Vacation of office
by death
resignation or
removal.
S
CHEDULE Section 3(4)
1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as
a member of the Authority—
(a) if he is, or becomes a Member of Parliament, any provincial council
or any local authority ;
(b) if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country,
found or declared to be of unsound mind ;
(d) if he is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment imposed
by any court in Sri Lanka or any other country ; or
(e) if he had been removed from membership of the Authority for
misconduct.
2. Every member of the Authority other than the chairman and the full-
time members shall, unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a term of three years from the date of his appointment
and unless he has been removed from office, be eligible for reappointment :
Provided that a member appointed in place of a member who had vacated
office, by death, resignation or removal, shall hold office for the unexpired
term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
3. (1) The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, remove
from office any member of the Authority, other than the chairman or a full-
time member for misconduct or for physical or mental incapacity. A member
in respect of whom an Order is made under this paragraph shall be deemed
to have vacated office on the date of publication of the Order in the Gazette.
(2) The removal of any member under sub-paragraph (1) shall not be
called in question in any court.
4. A member of the Authority other than the chairman or a full-time
member may at any time resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed
to the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted
by the Minister in writing.
5. In the event of the vacation of office, by death, resignation or removal,
by any member of the Authority, the Minister may, having regard to the
provisions of section 3 appoint another person to succeed such member.
6. Where a member of the Authority, other than the chairman or a full-
time member is by reason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for
a period not less than three months, is temporarily unable to perform his
duties, it shall be the duty of such member to inform the Minister in writing
of such inability. Thereupon, the Minister may having regard to the provisions
of section 3, appoint some other person to act in his place during such period.
Disqualification
from appointment.
Termination of
appointment of
members.
Resignation of
members.

<!-- page 51 -->

50 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
7. (1) If the Chairman or any one of the full-time members are by reason
of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily unable to perform
the duties of his office, the Minister may appoint another member of the
Authority to act in his place.
(2) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette remove the
Chairman or any one of the full-time members of the Authority from office
for misconduct or for physical or mental incapacity. Such person in respect
of whom an Order is made under this paragraph shall be deemed to have
vacated office on the date of publication of the Order in the Gazette.
(3) The Chairman or any one of the full-time members may at any time
resign from the office of Chairman or full-time members as the case may be
by letter addressed to the Minister. Such resignation shall take effect upon it
being accepted by the Minister in writing.
8. (1) The Chairman of the Authority shall, if present preside at every
meeting of the Authority. In the absence of the Chairman from any such
meeting, one of the full-time members present shall preside, and in the absence
of, the Chairman and all the full-time members from any meeting of the
Authority, the members present at such meeting shall elect one of the members
present, to preside at such meeting.
(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall be four
members.
(3) The Chairman, or in his absence the member presiding at any
meeting of the Authority shall have, in addition to his own vote, a casting
vote.
(4) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph and any regulation made
under section 71 the Authority may regulate the procedure in regard to its
meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.
9.  No act, decision or proceeding of the Authority shall be deemed invalid
by reason only of the existence of a vacancy among its members or any
defect in the appointment of any member thereof.
10. (1) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of the
Chairman.
(2) The application of the seal of the Authority shall be authenticated by
the signature of the Chairman or some other member of the Authority
authorised to authenticate the application of such seal.
Termination of
appointment of
Chairman.
Meetings of the
Authority.
Seal of the
Authority.
Proceedings act or
decision not to
deemed invalid by
reason of any
defect in the
appointment.

<!-- page 52 -->

Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 200351
Disclosure of
interest by
members.
11. A member of the Authority who is directly or indirectly interested
in any matter which forms the subject matter of any proceeding of the
Authority or of any decision proposed to be made by the Authority, shall
disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting of the Authority and such
member shall not take part in any proceeding or decision in respect of such
matter.

<!-- page 53 -->

52 Consumer Affairs Authority  Act, No.9 of 2003
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.