

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
   
 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 210
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 210
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"386 - 2024 uehs ui 22 jeks nodod - 2024'05'22              
 No. 2,386 - WEDNESDA y , MAy  22, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  14th June 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31st May 2024.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 Gangani Liyanage,  
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
209 - B 082572 - 353 (05/2024)
Page Page


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'22
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka –22.05.2024
210
Land Development ordinance notices
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL 'S  
DePARTmenT  
notice for cancellation of the Grants, issued under the 
sub section (4) of Section 19 of the Land Development 
ordinance (Section 104) 
i, Liyanage Upul Janaka Perera Divisional Secretary of 
the Divisional Secretariat of Walallawita in the District 
of Kalutara in Western Province, hereby inform that the 
actions are being taken to cancel the grant given in terms of 
Section 19 (4) of the Land Development Ordinance by the 
H/E president on 22
nd November 1966 bearing No. R 8286 
to Walallavita Kankanamge Agos Singheo and registerd on 
7
th  October 1967 Under the No. L.D.O. 4/255 at Matugama 
District register office under the section 104 of the same 
ordinance as it has been reported that there is no successor 
for the Land, mentioned in below Schedule owing to the 
reason either non availability of a person who legally entitles 
for the successin, of he/she dislike for being a successor 
once  person is available. in case any objection, with this 
regard are available this should be informed me in written 
before 14.06.2024.
Schedule
  The portion of state Land, containing in extent about 04 
Acres, 02 Roods, 06 Perches, out of extent marked Lot 255 in 
the blocking out of plan, bearing No : FVP 89 made by/in the 
diagram bearing No made by and kept in charge of Surveyor 
General which situated in the Village called Gulavita belongs 
to the Grama Niladhari Division of 789, Gulavita North in 
Walallavita pattu coming within the area of authority of 
Walallawita Divisional Secretariat in the administrative 
District of Kaluthara as bounded by Halwalakele.
 On the North by   :    Not mentioned;
 On the East by       :    Not mentioned;                    
 On the South by     :    Not mentioned;
 On the West by       :    Not mentioned;
 L. U. Janaka Perera,
 Divisional Secretary,
 Walallawita.
 
26th October, 2023.
05-279
miscellaneous  Land notices
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL’S  
DePARTmenT
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/76054.
Ref. No. of Provincial  Land Commissioner : NCP/PLC/
L09/23/04.
Notification made under State Land Regulation                   
no. 21 (2)
IT is hereby noticed that Mr. Lafir Mohammed Riaz has 
requested the state land allotment in extent of about 40 Perches 
depicted in the sketch prepared by the Colonization Officer and 
situated in 189, Kotaleeya Grama Niladhari Division which 
belongs to Thamankaduwa Divisional Secretary's Division in 
the Polonnaruwa District of North Central Province on lease 
for Commercial Purposes.
02. the boundaries of the land requested are given below :
     
 On the North by      : By road to the School and waste 
    canal and reservation;
 On the East by        : Waste canal and reservation;
 On the South  by     : Main road and reservation;
 On the West  by    : By road to the School and 
    reservation;
 
03.  the requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions  :
 (a)  Term of lease : thirty (30) years (from  13.05.2024 
onwards).
  Annual amount of the lease.- in the instances where 
the valuation of land in the y ear 2024 is less than Five 
Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000),  2% of the  market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of 
the Chief Valuer. in the instances where the valuation 
of land in the y ear 2024 is more than Five Million 
Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the market value of 
the land in the said year, as per the valuation  of the 
Chief Valuer. this amount of the lease must be revised 

<!-- page 3 -->

  III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'22
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka –22.05.2024
211
in every Five years and the revision shall be added a 
20% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Not levied.
 (b) the lessees must, within a period of one year from 
the date of commencement of the lease, develop the 
said land to the satisfaction of the  Provincial Land 
Commissioner/Divisional Secretary;
 
 (c)   the lessees must not use the said land for any 
purpose whatsoever other than an commercial 
purposes; 
 
  (d)  this lease shall also be subject to other special conditions 
imposed by the Provincial Land Commissioner (North 
Central)/ Divisional Secretary/ institutions relevant to 
the Project and other institutes;
 (e) Existing/ constructed buildings must be maintained in 
a proper state of repair;
 (f) if the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
  (g)   No permission will be granted until expiry of 05 years 
from  13.05.2024 for any subleasing or assigning;
 (h)  Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto  lapse.
 (i)  in case of non-payment of lease, a penalty interest of 
10% will be charged on the lease in arrears;
 (j)  Must be subject to the conditions of Urban Development 
Authority and Department of Agrarian Development;
  
 if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within  
06 weeks of  the herein Gazette  publication to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be leased 
out as requested.
  
 K. G. P. Saumya, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
“Mihikatha Medura”, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
20
th  May, 2024.
05-289
PRiNtED   At  tHE  DEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LANKA .