

<!-- page 1 -->

293
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.07'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 30.07.2021
wxl 2"239- 2021 cQ,s ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.07'30
No. 2,239 – FriDAY , 30 JulY 2021
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AtteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. No-
tices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th August, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th August, 2021.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January 2021
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
293- B 82253 - 353 (07/2021)
 Page Page
 laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 294
N. B.  (i)  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2,238 of 22.07.2021 were not published.
 
Note.–  (i) Human Rights Organization (incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of September 16th of July, 2021.
 (ii) Balangoda Ananda Maitreya Foundation (incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 16th of July, 2021
 (ii) Samadhi Meditation and Yoga Centre (incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of 16th of July, 2021


<!-- page 2 -->

294
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.07'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 30.07.2021
miscellaneous notices
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The InSTITuTe of DRAfTInG TechnoLoGISTS SRI LAnkA
I, Gamini Waleboda, do hereby give notice under the standing order No. 53 (1) of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, That I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An Act to incorporate the Institute of Drafting 
Technologists Sri Lanka"
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said institute which has the following objects : -
(a) To promote and foster the advancement of Drafting Technology including techniques and skills thereof;
(b) To secure uniformity in the vocation of Drafting Technology, and modify, supervise, advise and control the 
Drafting Technology Education in Sri Lanka in consultation with the Tertiary and V ocational Education 
Commission (hereinafter referred to as "the TVEC;
(c) To conduct and promote courses in Drafting Technology provided that the Institute shall not at any time 
exceed any authority given to it by the TVEC to conduct such courses accredited by the TVEC pertaining to 
Drafting Technology;
etc.
 
 
GAMINI WALEbODA,
 Member of Parliament, 
 Ratnapura District.
07-691