

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2313$33 - 2023 ckjdß ui 04 jeks nodod - 2023'01'04
No. 2313/33 -  WEDNESDAY ,   JANUARY  04,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
1A- PG 6154 - 1006 (01/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
MEDIA   GUIDELINES   UNDER  ARTICLE   104B (5)(A)   OF   THE   CONSTITUTION   OF   THE 
DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA
THE Media Guidelines made by the Election Commission under Article 104 B(5)(A) of the Constitution of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as ﬁ nally amended by the 21st Amendment to the Constitution, are as follows-: 
 Extraordinary Gazette Noti ﬁ cations No. 2165/71 dated 06.03.2020, No. 2178/24 dated 03.06.2020 and No. 2184/51 dated 
17.07.2020 that published media guidelines are hereby rescined.
 NIMAL G. PUNCHIHEWA, S. B. D IV ARATNE, M. M. M OHAMED,
 Chairman, Member, Member,
 Election Commission. Election Commission. Election Commission.
 K. P. P. PATHIRANA, P. S. M. C HARLES,
 Member, Member,
 Election Commission. Election Commission.
At Election Commission,
Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya,
on this 4th day of January 2023.  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
2A
Schedule 01
01. Committee of (Permanent) Representatives for enforcing and recommending media guidelines & general matters 
1.1 Every media institution shall provide accurate, balanced and impartial information in broadcasting or televising 
or publishing its news bulletins and any other programme related to political affairs. In this regard, the Election 
Commission shall appoint a Permanent Representative Committee to monitor and ensure that the following media 
guidelines issued by the Commission are properly adhered to and to make observations and recommendations on 
compliance with the guidelines. The Committee shall act in accordance with the directions and instructions of 
the Election Commission which shall take necessary decisions upon the recommendations of such Committee. 
The composition and members of the Committee will be announced by the Commission after the announcement 
of the dates for an election.
1.2 In these guidelines “period of an election” means the period commencing on the making of a Proclamation or 
Order for the conduct of a referendum or for the holding of an election, as the case may be, and ending on the 
date on which the result of a poll taken at such referendum or election, as the case may be, is declared.
Schedule 02
02.  Guidelines for Electronic Media Institutions 
2.1 All telecasting, and broadcasting shall be neutral and impartial in their reporting of matters relating to an election, 
and shall not act in a manner which discriminates against any contesting political party, independent group or 
candidate or confers a special bene ﬁ t to any such party, group or candidate, in allocating airtime on radio or 
television for a political party, independent group or candidate.
2.2. Editorials published in the newspapers shall not be commented on by electronic media promoting or prejudicing 
any political party, independent group or candidate as opinions in such commentaries may be confused and biased. 
Whenever an editorial opinion is broadcast or telecast, an affected party shall be given a similar opportunity to 
broadcast or telecast material to counter such opinion.
2.3. Every presenter of programmes and announcer on television and radio channels shall refrain from expressing 
personal views, on programme where newspaper headlines and cartoons are presented which may promote or 
prejudice one party.
2.4. It shall be the responsibility of the news and current affairs divisions of all electronic media institutions not 
to broadcast or telecast any programme or supplement during the period of an election, if such programme, 
supplement or news item is inconsistent with the election laws and media guidelines of the Election Commission.
2.5. Where any material covering an incident or event is broadcast or telecast during the period of an election/poll 
with comments of one candidate, any other political party or independent group having an interest in such event 
or likely to be affected by that incident or event should also be given an opportunity to express the views on 
such incident or event.
2.6. The names of the scriptwriter, announcer and editor of any documentary programme or any other special 
programme broadcast or televised during the period of an election/poll which is directly connected with such 
election/poll shall be disclosed when such programme is broadcast or telecast. In the event of any such media 
institution retaining the right not to disclose such particulars, the person in charge of such programme shall be 
held responsible for the contents thereof. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
3A
2.7. A media institution shall not utilize air time redundant to make allegations against any candidate contesting at 
an election/poll if the allegations cannot be substantiated. If any political party, independent group or candidate 
claims that another political party, independent group or candidate or supporter thereof has made any false and 
prejudicial statement against a political party, independent group or candidate that party, group or candidate 
shall be given an opportunity to counter the same.
2.8. Any news or programme covering any of ﬁ cial function or event related to any crime that is likely to promote 
or demote any political party, independent group or candidate is telecast or broadcast, even if such news or 
programme is not related to any election/poll, every media institution if publishing such news or programme 
shall consult the parties involved therein for clarity.
2.9. Where during the period of election/poll coverage is given by radio or television to opinions or views expressed 
by the President or the Prime Minister or any Minister, it shall be treated as coverage given to the political party 
to which such person belongs. Therefore, any nominated leader of a rival party political contesting the election/
poll shall also be given equal coverage free of charge in similar programmes. 
2.10. No candidate shall be specially or favorably treated in the allocation of airtime on radio or television, to 
promote the election of such candidate or to cause prejudice to another candidate.
2.11. No lecture, interview, or such other programme with public of ﬁ cers shall be broadcast or telecast, during the 
period of an election/poll, promoting any contesting candidate or causing disadvantage to another candidate.
2.12. No photographs or statements of public of ﬁ cers not entitled to political rights and of of ﬁ cers in active service 
in security forces and police as well as of retired of ﬁ cers of security forces and police taken or made in their 
uniforms while in active service should be telecast or broadcast over electronic media in a manner promoting 
or demoting any party or candidate. 
2.13. Every electronic media institution shall act in a reasonable manner in selecting participants for panel discussions 
so that the composition of the panel is balanced. Every media institution shall refrain from conducting programmes 
which cause disadvantage to any participant by conducting the programme in a language in which such participant 
is not proﬁ cient. Interviews with participants shall be conducted in a language that the participant is proﬁ cient 
in. Information obtained through vague and incoherent questions should not be published, or such questions 
should not be asked. At the outset, a participant in the programme should be warned not to make statements 
which are unethical or harmful to communal harmony, and if such statements are made while the discussion is 
in progress, the programme should be discontinued forthwith.
2.14 In any phone-in programme, every caller shall be given fair opportunity to pose questions which are not unethical, 
not harmful to religious or communal harmony and are consistent with the laws relating to elections. Every 
person conducting such phone-in programmes shall be answerable for any biased phone-in programme.
2.15. If the chairperson, member of the board of management, director or any journalist of any electronic or print 
media institution is actively involved in political activities and where any such involvement may result in a 
conﬂ ict of interest in providing balanced broadcasting, telecasting or publishing, such person shall inform in 
writing the management of the institution, the following: -
(a)   the involvement of such person in political activity;
(b)   the position held by such person in the institution; and
(c) the extent of involvement of such person in arranging and conducting programmes.
2.16. Where any person holding any position in any recognized political party is also holding a dominant ofﬁ ce such 
as the chairman, member of the board of directors, chief executive or chief editor of any media institution and, 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
4A
where such person is also a candidate at an election/a poll or the party to which such person belongs is directly 
or under a recognized alliance contesting at such election/poll, he shall cease to engage in the duties assigned 
to him in such media institution. Further, if such person is contesting as a candidate or holding of ﬁ ce in a 
contesting party at an election/a poll, he shall not be involved in moderating any programme in any television 
or broadcasting institution which is of political in nature and, in the case of print media, such person shall not 
publish articles on political matters through that media institution.
2.17. Where any participant of a political party refuses to participate in a discussion or an interview in any media 
institution without assigning any reason for such non-participation, such media institution shall not display an 
empty chair or use similar means to emphasize such non-participation. It is recommended that a simple and 
direct announcement be made about the absence of the participant.
2.18. Any electronic media which broadcasts the result of an opinion poll on any election/poll shall broadcast the 
name of the organization which conducted such poll, the purpose of the research/opinion poll, the organization 
or the person which commissioned and funded such poll, the methodology employed, the size of the sample, 
margin of error and the period of ﬁ eldwork.  Further, the broadcaster or publisher shall state that such poll 
reﬂ ects a public opinion only at the time of such opinion poll.
2.19. Where any candidate makes any statement to promote the candidature of another candidate of a party or group, 
to which such candidate does not belong, no publicity shall be given to such statement by way of broadcasting 
or telecasting such statement.
2.20. No Photographing or videotaping shall be carried out at any polling station or postal voting centre without the 
due permission of the Election Commission. No unauthorized photo or video shall be published or broadcast 
in the newspapers, or over electronic, print or social media. Even photographs and video footage taken after 
obtaining the permission of the Election Commission should be published or aired only after the closure of the 
poll. 
2.21. Any advertisement, quiz programme, entertainment programme, any programme relating to development 
activities or any such activities, ﬁ lm, teledrama, musical show or any other programme of such nature televised 
or broadcast prior to the date of the election/poll, conducted by or featuring any candidate or promoting or 
demoting any candidate or party or an independent group shall not be telecast, broadcast or published during 
the period of silence which operates just before the date of the election/poll. 
2.22. The “silence period” in relation to the election campaign is the period commencing 48 hours before the date 
on which the election/poll is scheduled to be held and ending on the date when the results are announced. No 
propaganda activity or advertising whatsoever promoting or demoting any political party or candidate shall be 
carried out during this period. However, footage of public meetings held for the promotion of political parties 
or candidates on the day before the start of the silence period may be aired only on one occasion on radio 
and television during their news bulletins on the day following the meeting, in such manner that all parties or 
candidates contesting the election receive an equal time slot. Also, news reports on ﬁ nal-day meetings may be 
published in the newspapers circulating on the day following such meetings in such a manner that no party or 
candidate receives special treatment.  
2.23. Every electronic media institution shall refrain from broadcasting or telecasting material that may promote or 
induce hatred and intolerance among Sri Lankan people on various grounds including religious beliefs, faith, 
language, ethnicity, customs and caste.
2.24. Every electronic media institution shall avoid broadcasting or telecasting propaganda activities that promote 
hateful politics among political activists and within society.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
5A
2.25. Every electronic media institution shall refrain from repeat-telecasting any statement made previously by any 
candidate or a supporter about another candidate of another political party, without the consent of the declarant 
and shall honour a request made by the declarant not to repeat such statements made by him previously.
2.26. A media institution shall not give coverage to anonymous notices or material and to notices or material under 
the names of fake organizations or persons. The responsibility in this regard shall lie with the respective media 
institutions.
2.27. A media institution and the person making any statement or reading the news, as the case may be, shall be 
equally accountable with regard to the publishing, broadcasting or telecasting of incorrect statements or news 
and shall be subject to legal proceedings that may arise in this regard.
2.28. Electronic media institutions shall refrain from publishing unof ﬁ cial results until the election/poll results are 
ofﬁ cially announced by the Election Commission. 
2.29. All government and semi-government electronic media institutions shall refrain from the use of state property 
and funds to promote any political party, group or candidate or act so as to cause damage to any institution or 
to government revenue. Private media institutions also should act accordingly. In the event of a breach of this 
guideline, in addition to the penalties speciﬁ ed in the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka, disciplinary action as may be speci ﬁ ed by the institution concerned, may be instituted against those 
responsible.
2.30. The proprietors of all electronic media shall adhere to these guidelines and ensure that the respective institutions 
owned by them observe such guidelines.
2.31. It shall also be the responsibility of the administrators of social media sites and owners of Cable Television 
channels to follow these guidelines as applicable to them, during the period of an election/a poll.
2.32. It is not only the duty but also the responsibility of the proprietors of electronic media institutions and 
administrators and users of social media to adhere to these guidelines, as the observance of these guidelines is 
essential to ensure a free and fair election/poll.
2.33. All electronic media institutions should refrain during the period of an election/poll from broadcasting statements, 
speeches or audio tapes by politicians or other persons appreciating acts of violence, violation of election laws 
and illegal acts, or in a manner that causes disturbances and acts of violence among social groups. 
2.34 It shall be the responsibility of every electronic media institution to adhere to and abide by the ethics pertaining 
to media.
2.35. Electronic media institutions shall refrain from publishing or airing any statement, report or propaganda made 
on any media, whether in print, radio, television or internet / social media, on matters covered or not covered 
by these media guidelines if they violate the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or 
any election/ poll or other law in force in the country.
Schedule 03
03.  Guidelines for Print Media Institutions 
3.1 All print media shall be neutral and impartial in their reporting of matters relating to an election/poll, and shall 
not act in a manner which discriminates against any contesting political party, independent group or candidate or 
confers a special beneﬁ t to any such party, group or candidate, in allocating space in newspapers for a political 
party, independent group or candidate.
3.2 It shall be the responsibility of all print media institutions not to broadcast or telecast any programme or 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
6A
supplement during the period of an election/poll, if the programme, supplement or news item is inconsistent 
with the election laws and media guidelines of the Election Commission. 
3.3 Where any material covering an incident or event is published during the period of an election/poll with comments 
of one candidate, any other political party or independent group having an interest in such event or likely to be 
affected by that incident or event should also be given an opportunity to express the views on such incident or 
event.
3.4 Where during the period of election/poll coverage is given by radio or television to opinions or views expressed 
by the President or the Prime Minister or any Minister, it shall be treated as coverage given to the political party 
to which such person belongs. Therefore, equal space should be given to any nominated leader of a rival party 
political contesting the election/poll to publish his special statements and to all political parties, independent 
groups and candidates in publishing articles on their propaganda campaigns. 
3.5 No candidate shall be specially or favourably treated in the allocation of space in newspapers, to promote the 
election of such candidate or to cause prejudice to another candidate.
3.6 No articles or other supplements on lectures, or interviews conducted for public of ﬁ cers shall be published, 
during the period of an election/poll, promoting any contesting candidate or causing a disadvantage to another 
candidate.
3.7  No photographs or statements of public of ﬁ cers not entitled to political rights and of ofﬁ cers in active service 
in security forces and police as well as of retired of ﬁ cers of security forces and police taken or made in their 
uniforms while in active service should be telecast, broadcast or published over electronic, print or other media 
in a manner promoting or demoting any party or candidate.
3.8  Every print media institution shall act in a reasonable manner in selecting participants for panel discussions 
so that the composition of the panel is balanced. Every print media institution shall refrain from conducting 
and reporting on discussions which cause disadvantage to any participant by conducting the programme in a 
language in which such participant is not proﬁ cient. Reporting on interviews with participants shall be done in 
a language that the participant is pro ﬁ cient in. Information obtained through vague and incoherent questions 
should not be published, or such questions should not be asked. At the outset, a participant in the programme 
should be warned not to make statements which are unethical or harmful to communal harmony, and if such 
statements are made while the discussion is in progress, such statements should not be reported.
3.9 If the chairperson, member of the board of management, director or any journalist of any print media institution 
is actively involved in political activities and where any such involvement may result in a conﬂ ict of interest in 
providing balanced broadcasting, telecasting or publishing, such person shall inform in writing the management 
of the institution, the following: -
(a) the involvement of a such person in political activity;
(b) the position held by such a person in the institution; and
(c) the extent of involvement of a such person in arranging and conducting programmes.
3.10 Where any person holding any position in any recognized political party is also holding a dominant of ﬁ ce such 
as the chairman, member of the board of directors, chief executive or chief editor of any media institution and, 
where such person is also a candidate at an election/a poll or the party to which such person belongs is directly 
or under a recognized alliance contesting at such election/poll, he shall cease to engage in the duties assigned 
to him in such media institution. Further, if such a person is contesting as a candidate or holding of ﬁ ce in a 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
7A
contesting party at an election/a poll, he shall not be involved in moderating any programme in any television 
or broadcasting institution which is of political in nature and, in the case of print media, such person shall not 
publish articles on political matters through that media institution.
3.11 Any print media that publishes the result of an opinion poll shall publish the name of the organization which 
conducted the poll, the organization or the person that commissioned and funded such poll, the purpose of the 
poll, the methodology employed, the size of the sample, margin of error and the period of ﬁ eldwork.  Further, 
the broadcaster or publisher shall state that such poll reﬂ ects a public opinion only at the time of such opinion 
poll.
3.12 Where any candidate makes any statement to promote the candidature of another candidate of a party or group, 
to which such candidate does not belong, no publicity shall be given to such statement by way of broadcasting 
or telecasting such statement.
3.13 No Photographing and publishing of any polling station or postal voting centre without the due permission of 
the Election Commission. No unauthorized photo or video shall be published in the newspapers, or over print 
media. Even photographs and video footage taken after obtaining the permission of the Election Commission 
should be published only after the closure of the election/poll. 
3.14 Any advertisement, quiz programme, entertainment programme, any programme relating to development 
activities or any such activities, or any other programme of such nature conducted prior to the date of the 
election/poll, by or featuring any candidate or promoting or demoting any candidate or party or an independent 
group shall not be published during the period of silence which operates just before the date of the election/
poll. It is considered vital that a period of silence prevails just before the date of the poll to enable the voter 
to contemplate and, consider the pros and cons of various policies announced and promises made by political 
parties and candidates during the election campaign. 
3.15 The “silence period” in relation to the election campaign is the period commencing 48 hours before the date 
on which the election/poll is scheduled to be held and ending on the date when the results are announced. No 
propaganda activity or advertising whatsoever promoting or demoting any political party or candidate shall be 
carried out during this period. However, footage of public meetings held for the promotion of political parties 
or candidates on the day before the start of the silence period may be aired only on one occasion on radio 
and television during their news bulletins on the day following the meeting, in such manner that all parties or 
candidates contesting the election receive an equal time slot. Also, news reports on ﬁ nal-day meetings may be 
published in the newspapers circulating on the day following such meetings in such a manner that no party or 
candidate receives special treatment.  
3.16 Every print media institution shall refrain from publishing material that may promote or induce hatred and 
intolerance among Sri Lankan people on various grounds including religious beliefs, faith, language, ethnicity, 
customs and caste.
3.17. Every print media institution shall avoid publishing propaganda activities that promote hateful politics among 
political activists and within society.
3.18 A print media institution shall not give coverage to anonymous notices or material and to notices or material 
under the names of fake organizations or persons. The responsibility in this regard shall lie with the respective 
media institutions.
3.19. Every print media institution shall refrain from republishing any statement made previously by any candidate 
or a supporter about another candidate of another political party, without the consent of the declarant and shall 
honour a request made by the declarant not to repeat such a statement made by him previously.
3.20 A print media institution and the person publishing or making any statement as the case may be, shall be 
equally accountable with regard to the publishing, of incorrect statements or news and shall be subject to legal 
proceedings that may arise in this regard.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.01.2023
8A
3.21 All print media institutions shall refrain from publishing unof ﬁ cial results until the election/poll results are 
ofﬁ cially announced by the Election Commission. 
3.22 All government and semi-government print media institutions shall refrain from the use of state property and 
funds to promote any political party, group or candidate or to cause loss to government revenue or act so as to 
cause damage to any institution. In the event of a breach of this guideline, in addition to the penalties speciﬁ ed 
in the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, disciplinary action may be instituted 
against those responsible.
3.23 The proprietors of all print media shall adhere to these guidelines and ensure that the respective institutions 
owned by them observe such guidelines.
3.24. It shall be the responsibility of all print media institutions to adhere to these guidelines during the period of an 
election/poll.
3.25 It is not only the duty but also the responsibility of the proprietors of media institutions and administrators and 
users of social media to adhere to these guidelines, as the observance of these guidelines is essential to ensure 
a free and fair election/poll.
3.26 All print media institutions should refrain during the period of an election/poll from publishing news, statements, 
or speeches by politicians or other persons appreciating acts of violence, violation of election laws and illegal 
acts, or in a manner that causes disturbances and acts of violence among social groups. 
3.27 It shall be the responsibility of every print media institution to adhere to and abide by the ethics pertaining to 
media.
3.28 Media institutions shall refrain from publishing any statement, report or propaganda made on any media, whether 
in print, radio, television or internet / social media, on matters covered or not covered by these media guidelines 
if they violate the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or any election or other law 
in force in the country.
EOG  01 - 0060
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.