

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of November 20, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 23. 11. 2015)
ATHARAGALLA UNITED COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Mayantha Dissanayake,
M.P. for Kandy District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 13.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’ s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ATHARAGALLA UNITED COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Atharagalla United Community Development Foundation”
as heretofore been established for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Atharagalla United
Community Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Atharagalla United Community Development Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted members of the Atharagalla United Community
Development Foundation shall be a body Corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the Atharagalla
United Community Development Foundation and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Atharagalla
United
Community
Development
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
3. (1) Main objective of the Foundation is to make well
aware of the philosophy, general intentions, general
principles and development programs of the Foundation to
the people and implementing them by introducing,
promoting and encouraging the minds of the people through
self-reliance and collectivism.
(2) Providing equal investment opportunities and
guidance for various institutions and organizations presently
operating in Sri Lanka.
(3) Making of policies and plans to provide following
basic necessities of the people and taking leadership to
evaluate the outcome of the proceeding:—
(a) Environment;
(b) Water ;
(c) Clothing;
(d) Food;
(e) Housing;
(f) Health;
(g) Education;
(h) Development of Cultural and Spiritual values.
(4) Dedication to build up a prosperous Sri Lanka while
improving the moral spiritual values of the people.
(5) Initiating programmes for the conservation and to
avoid the pollution of environment.
(6) To act as the Co-ordination organization with other
all institutions currently operating in Sri Lanka.
4. All the members of the Foundation should make every
effort to comply with the following general policies:—
(1) Should be honest, virtuous and generous at all times;
(2) Always avoid party politics in order to preserve the
repute of the Foundation;
General
objectives of
the
Corporation.
General
Policies of
the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) To achieve the objectives gradually for a simple
way of living;
(4) Attempt to build up non-violent society which filled
with general ownership, co-operation, kindness and
sympathy instead of life that filled with greed of
wealth, competition, hatred and lust;
(5) Accepting the methods that are been used to
accomplish the real objectives of the Foundation
are genuine and authentic;
(6) Dedication to transform Sri Lanka to a holy land
and to restore our country to become the granary
with the blessings of Meththa, Karuna, Muditha
and Upekkha by introducing and initiating
almsgiving, pleasant speech, benevolent conduct
and equity; the four noble treats of our inherited
religious culture within the community;
(7) Affirming to honour the decisions taken by the
Executive Committee and Board of Directors of
the Foundation and also to resign from the
membership with his own will if the Executive
Committee deprived the membership;
(8) On realizing that the Foundation has initially
rendered a voluntary service to build socially,
politically and economically developed society at
rural and urban levels and to take great care to
strengthen them further by following the paths of
equality and justice without exploiting the public;
(9) Make every effort in order to come into existence
our country as a Socialist Republic composed of
rural and urban communities enriched with
scientific knowledge and high spiritual values and
also for the existence of the world as a United
Common States Union based on Peace Co-
operation, Independence of nations and realizing
that world peace and the highest satisfaction helps
to achieve positive results;
35

<!-- page 5 -->

Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
(10) Conducting meetings with friendly discussions
cooperatively and effectively in a pleasant
atmosphere and set an example for the other various
organizations in Sri Lanka.
5. Following terms should be included in regarding the
membership:—
(1) There are no limits for the membership;
(2) The appointment of Clergymen and State Officers
as Invited Members by the Director Board of the
Foundation for rendering a valuable service to the
society is opened to anyone whom qualified for a
such position;
(3) The application for the membership when
forwarded along with the member fees to the
Secretary, the Director Board shall decide the
offering of membership;
(4) In obtaining the membership it is considered that
the members have accepted the policies, affirmation
and objectives of the Foundation;
(5) The President and the Director Board have powers
to grant, reject, deprive and removal of membership
of the Foundation;
(6) Even though the Director Board is not bound to
show causes to the membership relating the
disciplinary acts, they should submit the identical
decisions at a General Meeting for confirmation;
(7) Membership consists of 05 categories. They are
child membership, youth membership, ordinary
membership, lifetime membership and invited
membership;
Membership.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(8) The children over 07 years and under 14 years are
child members, the youths over 14 years and less
than 26 years are youth members, the persons over
26 years are considered as ordinary members, the
persons who pay the membership fees under the
rule No. 6 (iv) are considered as life time members
and the persons who are invited are known as
invited members;
(9) None of the members could acquire any personal
benefits through the membership of the Foundation.
6. (i) A child member has to pay Rs. 1/- per year for
the membership.
(ii) a youth member has to pay Rs. 6/- per year for
the membership.
(iii) an ordinary member has to pay Rs. 24/- per
year for the membership.
(iv) the membership obtained by paying Rs. 240/-
or paying the said amount in 3 installments
within a year, is considered as a lifetime member.
(v) the members are liable to pay the membership
fees but is allowed to donate the fees to the
Foundation at their sole discretion.
(vi) the child, youth and ordinary members should
pay their membership fees every year before
31st of January to renew the membership.
(vii) No member can demand or request any
contribution or any other payments made
previously to the Foundation if his membership
is ceased or deprived by the Director Board or
when leaving the Foundation at his/her own
will.
Membership
Fees.

<!-- page 7 -->

Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
7. The following particulars should include to the
Register of the Membership:—
(1) Name of the member, his permanent address, date
of membership;
(2) The secretary should maintain a record with the
date of ceasing the membership and any other
relevant details of the member.
8. (1) The Director Board consisting of not exceeding
15 members who have been elected from all categories of
the membership at an Annual General Meeting will govern
the Foundation according to the rules and regulations of the
constitution.
(2) The Director Board should be selected as follows :—
(a) 02 child members;
(b) 03 youth members;
(c) 03 mothers selected from the ordinary members;
(d) 06 adult members selected from the clergymen,
lifetime members and invited members;
(e) 03 members selected from the ordinary or youth
members.
(3) If a member of the Director Board performs his duties
that incompatible to the rules and conditions of the
constitution, he or she could be removed from the office by
2/3 majority of votes of members at a general meeting. The
decision taken at the general meeting is final and the member
has no rights to take action against the verdict in any court
of law.
20
25
Registration
of
Membership.
Director
Board.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
9. The Director Board should carryout the duties as
follows :—
(1) The Director Board of the Foundation must be
assembled at least once a month;
(2) The quorum of Director Board meeting shall be 07
members;
(3) At the end of the Annual General Meeting it is
compulsory to hold the first meeting of the Director
Board on the same day to elect the President,
General Secretary and the Treasurer of the
Foundation;
(4) The President has every right to take decisions
pertaining to the general activities of the
Foundation;
(5) Suitable date of the month should be fixed by the
Director Board for the meeting;
(6) Meeting of the Director Board should be held by
giving 3 days written notice prior to the meeting.
10. Under the orders of this constitution and any other
existing written law—
(1) Have powers for purchasing, vesting, rent or leasing,
construction or procurement of buildings and land
by any other means if required;
(2) Procurement of land, buildings, equipments, or
donations in cash or bank loans in various ways
and of the usage and investment of them for the
benefit of the Foundation;
(3) Implementing other programmes in relevant to the
objectives of the Foundation;
Rules of the
Director
Board.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
8
5
10
15
20
25
(4) Admitting, suspension and depriving of
Membership;
(5) Assigning the Duties to officials and carry out the
disciplinary control over them;
(6) Filling of the vacancies  of the posts of President,
the Secretary and the Treasurer of the Director
Board;
(7) Establishing sub-committees, assign them the duties
and also dissolving of sub-committees;
(8) Organizing gramodaya activities carrying out by
various organizations and engaged in assigning and
removing of full time workers, matrons of pre-
schools, cooks, female health assistants, maternity
hospital aides and gramodaya workers;
(9) The Secretary shall deal with all correspondence,
records of all members, programmes and all
documentary related works and to preserve them;
(10) Assignment of Accredited Auditors who are
approved by the official ordinance act to audit all
account statements;
(11) Presenting of audited, certified Audit Accounts
records at the general meeting;
(12) Establishing cordial relationship with other
Benevolent Associations;
(13) Informing the Secretary to summon Annual General
Meetings, Special General Meetings and Normal
General Meeting.
11. (1) The President :
(i) The President shall chair the meetings ;
Duties of the
Director
Board
Members.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(ii) He should examine all the activities and directing
the meetings ;
(iii) Present decisions taken by the Executive
Committee at the General Meetings ;
(iv) Removal of members upon the decisions of the
Executive Committee.
(2) The Secretary :
(i) Summoning of General Meetings, Annual General
Meetings, Director Board meetings, Maintaining
the records of the Director Board and the
Foundation, signing of the documents of the
Foundation and performing other tasks as per the
instructions of the Executive Committee ;
(ii) Keeping all the documents under the custody of
the Secretary and preserving them ;
(iii) The Secretary should submitted the particulars of
the membership to the Registrar of Associations
every year before 30th of June.
(3) The Treasurer :
(i) Treasurer is responsible of the security of all
accounts and funds of the Foundation and should
make the expenses as per the orders of the Director
Board and on the instruction of the President;
(ii) Maintaining of credit and payment records clearly;
(iii) Maintain inventories of all equipments, various
other items, property and so forth of the Foundation;
(iv) All cash of the Foundation must be compulsorily
deposited in a bank that is accepted by the Director
Board and shall be used whenever it is necessary ;

<!-- page 11 -->

Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
10
5
10
15
20
25
(v) Presenting of Annual Accounts statements to the
Director Board and General Meetings ;
(vi) The certified accounts sheets should be submitted
to the Registrar of Associations before 30th of June
every year.
12. The President and the Director Board should have
powers to appoint sub committees for the following purposes
whenever necessary :—
(a) shramadana camps, educational seminars, savings
and credit accounts, general marketing, exhibitions,
child welfare activities, educational tours, tree
planting and home gardening projects and economy
development projects ;
(b) inquiring on unruly behavior for using or handling
the Foundation in disorderly manner by a member
when reported ;
(c) other activities in compliance with the constitution
of the Foundation ;
(d) minimum of three members from the Director Board
should be included for a committee and the others
could be appointed from the members of the
Foundation ;
(e) the President and Director Board have powers to
dissolve a Sub Committee when required and to
appoint a new Sub Committee as an alternative.
13. (1) There are three types of meetings in which
Annual General Meeting that is summoned by the President
and the Director Board, and the Special General Meetings
and General Meetings that are summoned by the President
are been hold by the Foundation.
Appointing
of sub-
committees
General
Meetings of
the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 12 -->

11Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
(2) At the Annual General Meeting, presenting and
approval of the minutes of the last meeting, annual reports
of the Secretary, annual accounts reports and Statements of
the Treasurer and electing Director Board are the main
subject matters.
(3) The Special General Meetings which been summoned
on the approval and decisions of the Director Board are
liable to make amendments, revisions and additions of the
rules and conditions of the constitution only.
(4) The Special General Meeting summoned by the
President upon the written request made by a minimum of
06 members of the Director Board, in order to take a decision
on  a special matter will be held, only to discuss the particular
matter.
(5) Discussion on various useful subjects is taking place
at the General Meetings called up by the President or the
Director Board.
(i) Annual General Meetings must be held before 31st
August of every year.
(ii) The President should chair all the general meetings .
(iii) The quorum of any general meeting of the
association shall be 50 members or two-thirds of the
membership.
(iv) All the members are eligible for the membership of
general meetings and they have every right to participate
them.
(v) All general meetings should be held by notifying the
members, 14 days prior to the meeting date.
14. (1) There must be a fund for the Foundation. The
membership fees, donations, contributions made by local
institutions, the income received from movable and stable
5
10
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 13 -->

Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
12
properties of the Foundation and the aids offered by the
state, private insitution of the area and non-governmental
organizations are included for the fund and should deposited
them to the Foundation Account in a Bank or Banks specified
by the President and the Director Board.
(2) For rehabilitation, improvement or development and
conservation of the properties of the Foundation, the
organization has rights to raise a fund or to establish a sinking
fund.
(3) From this Fund—
(a) expenses for the Director Board for their own
activities under certain categories;
(b) to make some essential payments for the employees
of the Foundation;
(c) for the expenses on various activities of the
Foundation carried out by the officers and other
voluntary employees;
(d) expenses on Postal fees, telegrams, telephone calls,
stationery and printing works;
(e) payments for meritorius activities from the funds
reserved be the Director Board;
(f) charges for Auditing;
(g) payments for the purchasing of office furniture and
equipments;
(h) two office bearers must signed the cheques and one
must be the Treasurer and other should be either
the President or the Secretary of the Foundation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 14 -->

13Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
15 (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall begin
in 01st of April every year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor.
In this Section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such Institute.
16. Corporation should have powers to purchase any
item when required and to receive any donation, awards of
any movable or stable property and to use them for the welfare
of the Corporation. Similarly under the prevailing condition
at any period, the Corporation must have the powers to sell,
pawn, lease, hire, exchange or to remove the aforementioned
items.
17. There should be a frank (Seal) decided by the
Chairman and the Director Board for the Corporation and
will be used to stamp any document by the President, the
Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporation and any of the
two office bearers must place their signature as an evidence
of their presence.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Audit and
accounts.
Frank of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 15 -->

Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
14
5
10
15
20
18. (1) The rules and regulations of the constitution,
should not be amended, removed and shall not be approved
by other than not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting to the motion at a special general meeting
summoned for the particular purpose.
(2) For any amendments or removals of the rules of the
constitution, the Secretary of the Foundation or on his
absence the chairperson must make a proposal regarding the
particular subject at a General Meeting.
19. If any dispute arisen among the membership and
the Foundation due to any sort of activities of the Foundation,
then the Secretary should forward the matter to the Director
Board. On consideration the Director Board and the President
will give the final verdict that is never been questioned in a
court of law and the members are liable to accept the decision
and to act accordingly.
20. Except the persons covered by this bill and to the
rights of the others whom possessed or influenced by
aforesaid persons, no any other person of the republic or
anyone attached to the state sector or corporation will be
affected or will be influenced on their rights by this Act.
21. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Dispute
among the
members of
the
Corporation.
Protection of
the rights of
the people.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Amendment
of rules and
regulations
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Atharagalla United Community Development
Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .