

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 3021
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"102 – 2018 foieïn¾ ui 14 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'12'14
No. 2,102 –  FRiday ,  dEcEmbER 14, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th January, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st december, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3019-b 81476- 5,403 (12/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3020
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3021
Posts – vacant
v ACANCIES fOR SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  NAvAL  
fORCE CADET OffICERS 
VacaNciES exist  in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force 
for Cadet Officers.
2. applications are invited from male candidates 
possessing the qualifications for following branches : 
(a) Executive branch, 
(b) Engineering branch,
(c) Logistics branch, 
(d) Electrical/Electronic Engineering branch, 
(e) Naval infantry
3. Basic Educational Qualifications :
(a) Having passed the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in 
06 subjects with two credits including mathematics 
and English in not more than two sittings. 
(b) Having passed the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination with 
3 subjects in one sitting.
(1) Executive branch - Having studied biology, 
Physics, chemistry and 
combined mathematics 
for the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination. 
(2) Naval infantry - Having studied 
commerce, technology 
or in arts Stream for 
the G. c. E.  (a/L) 
Examination. 
(3) Logistics branch - Having studied in 
commerce Stream 
for the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination.
(4) Engineering branch  Having studied physics,
 Electrical/Electronic  c ombined mathematics,
 Engineering branch  chemistry for the 
   G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination.
(c) Having obtained not less than 30 marks for the 
common General test at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination. 
(d) Having obtained minimum qualifications for 
university entry based on the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination results. (a certified copy of the 
reulsts sheet issued by the commissioner General 
of Examinations should be sent along with the 
application form)
4. Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions 
for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force :
 (a) Nationality   :- Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Age :- Should not be, less than 18 years 
and more than 22 years as at the 
closing date for applications.
 (c) Height  :- Should not be below 168cm (5 
feet 7 inches)
 (d) Weight :- Should not be below 52kg.
 (e) Chest :- Should not be below 81cm (32 
inches)
 (f) Color vision :- STD II
 (g) Visual  Acuity :- Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles and lenses)
 (h) Civil Status :- Candidates should be unmarried. 
No Cadet Officer will be 
permitted to get married during 
the period of training and for a 
period of one year from the date 
of commissioning.
5. Conditions of service :-
 (a) candidates will be enlisted into the Sri Lanka 
Regular Naval Force as Cadet Officers and will 
undergo a basic training course. Upon successful 
completion of the basic training with respect to 
the branch for which the enlistment is made, the 
Cadet Officers will be Commissioned as Acting 
Sub Lieutenant. 
 (b) Cadet Officers will be required to undergo training 
at any place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided 
by the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy in 
consultation with the ministry of defence. 
 (c) all the enlistees shall be subject to laws and 
instructions which are empowered by the existing 
Naval act, Naval orders and memoranda of the 
Naval act and which may hereafter be imposed 
and given respectively. 
 (d) In the event that a cadet officer voluntarily 
terminates his candidature during the training, 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3022
written approval should be obtained in this regard 
as per procedures of the Sri Lanka Navy and his 
mother/father or guardian will be required to 
refund to the Government of Sri Lanka all expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Government of Sri 
Lanka on account of such Cadet Officer. 
 (e) If at any time during his training a Cadet Officer 
is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable 
to qualify for a commission due to the reasons of 
misconduct or due to causes within his control, he 
will be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Navy 
all expenses incurred on his training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with 
the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy acting on 
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka. 
 (f) accidents during the training period and                     
long-term disabilities will be covered by the 
insurance already implemented at the Sri Lanka 
Navy and the Sri Lanka Navy shall not be 
liable for any special compensation payment or 
responsibility.
6. Pay and Allowances.- the payments will be made with 
effect from 01.01.2018 as per the management Services 
circular No. 12/2017. accordingly, 
 (a) basic Salary - Rs. 25,682.00
 (b) cost of Living - Rs. 7,800.00
 (c) Uniform cleaning - Rs. 255.00
  allowance
 (d) Hardline allowance - Entitlement after the basic 
  (operational areas)   training
 (e) Hardline allowance - Entitlement after the 
  (Non-operational  basic training
  areas)
 (f) additional - Special allowance 
  allowances  Rs. 1,000 
   - Special additional 
allowance Rs. 3,000 
 (g) Qualification pay - Rs. 637.50 
Note.– The basic salary of the Cadet Officer is                        
Rs. 32,380 as at 01.01.2020 and the basic salary 
will be revised annually as follows :
 01.01.2018 Rs. 25,682.00 adjustment   
  allowance 
   Rs. 3,080.00
2019.01.01 Rs. 29,031.00 n/a
2020.01.01 Rs. 32,380.00 n/a
7. Entitlement to facilities, allowances and privileges 
during and after the training period. 
(a) three sets of Railway warrants per year will be 
issued free of charge (for officer, spouse and 
children if applicable)
 (b) an additional set of Railway warrants or 
imbursement of bus fare for officers living in the 
base to visit their homes and return to the base. 
(for areas in which Naval bus transport service is 
not available).
 (c) Uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free 
of charge.
 (d) medical facilities will be provided free of charge.
 (e) the enlistees will be provided with food and 
accommodation facilities. 
 (f) Married officers can apply for Government 
married quarters based on the vacancies available 
and married officers who do not occupy married 
quarters will be entitled to a rent allowance of           
Rs. 1,600.00 upto Rs. 4,250.00 
8. Instructions to applicants :-
 (a) additional subjects will not be considered as            
G. C. E. (O/L) educational qualifications and the 
enlistment procedure will give special attention 
to individual achievements at the national and 
international level sports activities. 
 (b) applications that do not meet the basic 
qualifications and educational qualifications 
mentioned in Section 3 and 4 above will be 
rejected without any notice. 
 (c) Enlistees will be given the opportunity to follow 
degree courses offered by the General Sir John 
Kotelawala defence University or local/foreign 
degree courses. 
 (d) any candidate who may have a special skill to the 
service may be considered at the discretion of the 
commander of the Sri Lanka Navy even though 
the candidate may not have the requisite height/
chest/weight. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3023
 (e) the selected candidates will be required to 
comply with regulations and articles already made 
or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the 
Language Policy of the Official Language Act, 
No. 33 of 1956.
 (f) applications should be in the form of the specimen 
given below and should be completed clearly 
in detail and in handwriting. duly completed 
applications should be forwarded to Senior Staff 
Officer (Recruitment), P. O. Box 593, Navy 
Headquarters, colombo under registered cover 
on or before 1200 hrs. on 25th January 2019. 
applcations that are not sent by registered post 
will not be accepted. the top left hand corner of 
the envelope containing the application should 
bear "Post of Cadet Officer". Applications received 
after the closing date and time and applications that 
do not comply with the requirements stipulated in 
the Gazette Notification will not be entertained. 
For further information please visit the website, 
www.navy.lk or call 011-2215154. 
 (g) No notice will be given regarding the rejected 
applications. any complaint with regard to 
loss or delay of an application will not be 
considered. moreover receipt of the application 
will not be acknowledged.
 ( h) candidates who are in Public Service/
corporations/boards/civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through the 
Heads of departments/corporations/boards/
civil Establishments with a certificate to the 
effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
 (i) candidates will be required to produce the originals 
of the following documents in the interviews or 
any other occasion :-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a 
certified copy ;
 (2) Certificates of educational qualifications 
required for the branch applied for;
 (3) School Leaving certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladari Certificate obtained within six 
months;
 (5) Certificates of professional/technical experience 
(if any) gained from a recognized institution ;
 (6) Three recent character certificates. One 
certificate should be from principal of the 
school last atten ded and the other certificate 
should be from a responsible person who 
knows the applicant for more than two years or 
the present employer (if currently employed) ;   
 (7) Certificates of sports activities, cadetting etc.. 
 (8) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview, he should produce his National 
identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons. 
 (i) applications of candidates who fail to produce the 
documents when requested will not be considered.
 (j) Original certificates or original documents should 
not be enclosed with the application form and the Sri 
Lanka Navy will not be responsible for the safety of 
the originals, if sent by post. 
 (k) any statement  in the application which is found 
to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to 
disqualification or dismissal when the false statement 
is revealed before the selection or after the selection, 
respectively. 
9. enlistment Procedure :-
 (a) Candidates who fulfill the above requirements 
should pass a preliminary medical test conducted 
by the Sri Lanka Navy. On arrival for the first 
interview, height, vision and weight will be 
measured. candidates whose height, vision and 
weight are below the standards specified in the 
Gazette Notification will not be interviewed. 
candidates so passed will be required to undergo 
a Physical Endurance test as mentioned below. 
candidates who pass the Physical Endurance test 
shall have to appear in an interview as prescribed 
by the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy. the 
candidates thus selected shall appear before an 
interview board consisting of the commander of 
the Sri Lanka Navy and a representative of the 
ministry of defence. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3024
 (b) Requirements to pass the Physical Endurance 
Test :
exercise Rounds Time (Minutes/
Seconds)
1,600m run 
Push up 
Sit up 
arm bending 
Standing 
  board Jump
Rope              
   climbing
Shuttle Run
–
25 or more
25 or more
05 or more
242cm or 
   more
–
–
06-08 minutes
02 minutes
02 minutes
02 minutes
 
–
–
11 seconds 
 (c) candidates selected for the interview will be 
infromed about the date, time and place of such 
interviews in writing and by post to the address 
given. travelling or other expenses will not be 
paid in this respect. 
 (d) Candidates likely to be qualified after the final 
interview will be required to present themselves 
before a Sri Lanka Navy medical board.
 (e) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving him a testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
on the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
 (g) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
 (h) Validity of the certificates of educational and 
professional qualifications produced by the 
candidates will be verified in co-ordination with 
the department of Examinations. 
 (i) Reports on security clearance of all candidates 
will be subject to re-examination by the Naval 
Headquarters. 
10. the commander of Sri Lanka Navy reserves the 
power to take final decisions on enlistment process of 
Cadet  Officers in the Sri Lanka Navy and upon national 
security, military and administrative requirements of the Sri 
Lanka Navy, final decision in making changes to the above 
requirements and conditions will be at the discretion of the 
commander of Sri Lanka Navy. 
Note : This Gazette notification is published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English. in the event of any 
inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English 
texts of this Gazette  notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 SS 
Ranasinghe,WWV ,RWP,VSV ,
 USP, ndc,psc. aoWc
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters,
P.o. box 593,
colombo 01.
aPPLicatioN FoR SRi LaNKa REGULaR NaVaL 
FoRcE - cadEt oFFicER
01. Nationality :––––––––––.
 (State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if registration, quote number and date 
of certificate)
02. Branch applied for (according to  priority) :––––––––––.
03. Full Name (as per the National Identity Card) :–––––––.
04. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Postal Address :––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
08. Age :
 Years :––––––––. Months :–––––––.Days:––––––––. 
(As at 25th January 2019):
09. Height :––––––––––, (cm) 
 Chest :–––––––––,(cm) Weight :––––––––––, (kg)
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––––.
11.  District :––––––––––.
12. Electorate :––––––––––.
13. Grama Niladhari Division :––––––––––.
14.Telephone Number :––––––––––.
15. Civil Status :––––––––––.
16. Gender :––––––––––.
17. School Attended :––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3025
18. Particulars of School and/or University attended :
  Name of Type of Year of Subjects passed 
  School/ examination examination (including
  University   Grading)
    G. c. E (o/L)
    G. c. E. (a/L) 
    Other :
19.  Particulars of employment after leaving School/
university (if applicable) :
  Name and address Nature of Period of Service
  of employer employment To            From
20. Particulars of Parents:-
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present 
   Birth  Address
Father
mother
21.  Any Special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
22.  details of available achievements in sports (Give details 
about competitions and sports teams with dates and 
achievements reached) :–––––––––.
23. other achievements at School/University or in outside 
organizations (Give details with dates) :––––––––––.
24. any previous service in the armed Forces or V olunteer 
Force or cadet Corps or Boy Scouts Organization :–––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy 
Force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give 
details and the outcome of such applications :––––––––.
26. Have you had a conviction or received a suspended 
sentence by a civil or military court, if so give details 
:––––––––––.
27. if employed in a Government department or in the 
Public Sector/board/corporation (including the central 
Bank, State Banks, Universities, Civil Organizations 
controlled by the Government, companies etc.) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials :
  Name  Designation Postal Address
29. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
i declare on my honour that aforesaid details given by 
me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will 
be adopted and the regulations which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in the 
Sri Lanka Navy, published in the Gazette of the Government 
of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
Date :––––––––––.
12–433 
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, hOmE 
AffAIRS AND JuSTICE
Field / Office based officers in the Department of 
Community based Corrections – Segment 2 
Recruitment (Open) to the Post of Community 
Correction Officers -2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitable Sri Lankan citizens 
to fill 04 (four) vacancies (for the offices of Kebithigollewa, 
Hingurakgoda, Siyambalanduwa, Wellawaya) existing in 
the Post of Community Correction Officer Grade II in the 
department of community based corrections. applications 
prepared according to the specimen form of application 
appended at the end of this notification should be sent to 
reach the commissioner, department of community based 
corrections, No. 35/a, dr.N.m.Perera mawatha, borella, 
colombo 08 on or before the date mentioned below by 
registered post. the top left corner of the envelope containing 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3026
the application should clear ly bear the words “Recruitment 
to the Post of Community Correction Officer”.  
(a)  closing date of application is 2019/01/15.
Note.- complaints made on the loss or delay of 
applications and other connected letters in the post 
will not be considered. the damages caused due 
to delay in the submission of applications until the 
closing date shall be borne by the applicant. 
01. Method of Recruitment.–  Recruitment to the 
vacancy shall be based on the marks of a structured 
interview conducted by an interview panel appointed by 
the commissioner of the department of community based 
corrections. the effective date of the appointments will be 
determined as per the decision of the commissioner of the 
department of community based corrections.
02. Conditions for engagement in service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
will be subject to any policy decision taken by 
the Government regarding the pensions scheme 
in future. you should contribute to the Widows’/ 
Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) this appointment is subject to 3 years probation 
period and First Efficiency Bar Examination 
shall be passed within 03 years from the date of 
recruitment.
 (iii) Shall acquire the relevant proficiency in other 
official language in addition to the language 
in which the officer joined the service, within 
five years from the date of recruitment to the 
post as per the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014. Officers who joined the service 
in a language medium which is not an official 
language shall acquire the proficiency in 
the prescribed language within three (03) 
years from the date of recruitment  and shall 
acquire the proficiency in the other official  
language within five (05) years from the date of 
recruitment. Shall acquire the Second Language 
Proficiency related to Category II. 
 (iv) this appointment shall be subject to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
Financial Regulations of the Government and 
other departmental orders.
03. Salary scale.– in terms of the Public administration 
circular No. 3/2016, mN5-2016 be the initial salary scale. 
Rs. 34,605-10 x 660-11 x 755-15 x 930-Rs. 63,460/- 
(Salary shall be paid according to the Schedule ii of 
the Public administration circular No.03/2016).   
04. Educational Qualifications and Professional 
Qualifications.– Shall have obtained a special degree in 
criminology / special degree in Sociology   from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission
oR
a degree in law (LLb) or an attorney-at-Law of the 
Supreme court.
05. experience.– Prior Experience obtained related 
to the relevant field will be considered as an additional 
qualification. 
06. Age Limit.– Shall be not less than 21 years of age and 
not more than 35 years as at the closing date of application.
07. Qualifications.– Every candidate shall be physically 
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island and to 
perform the duties of the post.
Other Qualifications :
• Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka 
• Shall be of an excellent character 
• Shall have satisfied the qualifications mentioned in 
the Notice of calling applications / Gazette in all 
aspects for the recruitment to the post.
08. Structured interview.– marks will be given by an 
interview panel appointed by the commissioner of the 
department of community based corrections.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3027
09. Marking scheme of the Structured interview:  
Subject Marks Maximum 
Marks
01.
02.
03.
04.
05.
06.
Additional Educational Qualifications
i. Post Graduate degree in Sociology / criminology / Law
ii. other Post Graduate degrees
iii. Post Graduate diploma courses
iV . diploma courses (duration of which more than 01 year)
V . diploma courses (duration of which more than 09 months)
Additional Professional Qualifications
I. Diploma obtained from government recognized institution related 
to drug Prevention /  Social Works / counseling  or  criminology                         
(05 marks per each ) 
II. Certificate courses on Social Works/ Drug Prevention and Counseling  
(03 marks per each)
 
Language Proficiency
i. degree followed in other language other than mother language by 
a University or an institution recognized by the University Grants 
commission
ii. diploma course on English / tamil / Sinhala (10 marks per one language 
other than mother language – for two languages 15 marks)
III. Certificate courses on English / Tamil / Sinhala ( 05 marks per one  
language other than mother language – for two languages 10 marks)
Experience obtained related to the relevant field
(Experience related to rehabilitation /Probationary / Social welfare / Law / 
Community Correction) Shall be confirmed by acceptable documents.  
i. 05 years or more than that
ii. 04 years or more than that 
iii. 03 years or more than that
iV . 02 years or more than that
V . 01 year or more than that
Vi. 06 months or more than that
knowledge on Computer 
I. Diploma obtained from government recognized institution duration of 
which is not less than 12 months.
II. Certificate Course duration of which not more than 09 months or not 
less than 06 months.
III. Certificate Course duration of which more than 03 months.
IV . Other certificates related to  computer Literacy
Performance at the interview 
25
20
15
10
05
10
15
15
10
30
25
20
15
10
05
15
10
05
03
05
25
10
15
30
15
05

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3028
10. Applications should be in the form of the specimen appended at the end of this notification and prepared on A4 
size paper .The applicants  shall fill the applications in their own handwriting . Applications not complying with the specimen 
form of application appended at the end of this notification shall be rejected without any acknowledgement. It would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application from. Receipt of application shall not be acknowledged.
Note:
 I. If any candidate unable to furnish the original copies of the certificates mentioned in the application on 
request, the application will be rejected.
 II. The officers in Public Service / Provincial Public Service and Government Corporations should submit 
applications through their heads of departments / institutions.
 iii. Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, circulars issued from time to time concerning the 
Public Service and the conditions in the amendments made there to shall be applicable for this post. 
  (in the event of any inconsistency between   Sinhala, tamil and English texts of the Gazette, the text in the 
Sinhala Language shall prevail.)      
 R.P.S. samankumaRi,
 commissioner.
department of community based corrections,
04th december, 2018.                    
                                                                                                                  For office use 
REcRUitmENt  to  tHE  PoSt  oF  commUNity  coRREctioN  oFFicER  (GRadE ii)  oF  dEPaRtmENt 
oF  commUNity  baSEd  coRREctioNS  (oPEN) – 2018
01. Personnel Information :
 1. Full Name ( Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
   Full Name (English) :––––––––––––––.
 2. Name With Initials ( Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
   Name with Initials (English) :––––––––––––––.
 3. Permanent Address ( Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
   Permanent Address (English) :––––––––––––––.
 4. Gender (Male / Female)  :––––––––––––––.
 5. Marital Status (Single / Married)  :––––––––––––––.
 6. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––––.
    Date of Birth :   Year :                                         Month :                               Date : 
 7. Age as at the closing date of application :-
        Years :––––––––––––––.    Months :––––––––––––––.    Days :––––––––––––––.
 8. Telephone No. :––––––––––––––.
02. Educational Qualifications :
   Degree :––––––––––––––.
   Name of the University :––––––––––––––.
  Effective date of the degree :––––––––––––––.
No. Qualification Name of the Institute effective date of the 
qualification

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2018
3029
03. Other Educational Qualifications :
No. Qualification Name of the Institute effective date of the 
qualification
04. Professional Qualifications : 
No Qualification Name of the Institute effective date of the 
qualification
05. Other Qualifications : ........................................................................................................................................................
06. Experience : .......................................................................................................................................................................
07. Certification of the Applicant :
 i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that if any 
of the particulars in this application is found to be false or incorrect before selection my application will be rejected 
and i am liable to be  dismissed from service without any compensation if any such information is found to be false or 
incorrect after selection.
  ––––––––––––––––––––,
                                                                                                    Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––––.
08. Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant :
i certify that the applicant mr/mrs/miss …………………………………… is known to me personally and he/she 
placed his/her signature on ………………………….. in my presence .
                                                                                                        ––––––––––––––––––,                                                              
                                                                                                                Signature of the attester.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :––––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––––.
(Place rubber stamp)
09. Certification of the Head of the Department /Institution :
 mr./mrs./miss. ............................ submitting the application is employed in this institution  and holds a permanent 
and pensionable/ temporary post  and i hereby state that he/she can / cannot be released from service if selected.
                                                                      
                                                                    ––––––––––––––––,
                                                                       Signature of the Head of the department /institute.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––––––.
D e p a r t m e n t /  I n s t i t u t e  : – – – – – – – – – – – – – – .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
(Place rubber stamp)
12–492
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.