

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3056
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 3054
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"999 – 2016 foieïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'12'23
No. 1,999 –  fRiday ,  dEcEmbER  23, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th January, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 30th  december, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
3051
Note.–  (i) Palitha thewarapperuma foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of december 16, 2016.
 (ii) Study centre for the advancement of technology and Social Welfare (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement 
to the part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of december 16, 2016.
 (iii) Polonnaruwa buddhist Society (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of december 16, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3052
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3053
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3054
Posts – vacant
JuDICIAL  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Applications are called for in terms of the muslim 
marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the 
Recruitment of Chairman and members for the board 
of Quazis
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply. 
any muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized 
University or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an 
institution recognized by the ministry in charge of muslim 
Religions and cultural affairs or a holder of the al-alim 
certificate issued by the Department of Education or an 
Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar qualification 
or a retired public servant who has held office in staff grade. 
a person currently holding a permanent post in the 
public service (other than Judicial Officer) shall not be 
eligible to apply. 
applicants should be married and over 40 years, of age 
physically fit and of good character and standing in the 
community and possessing a sound knowledge of the law 
relating to muslim marriage and divorce. 
Specimen application for the appointment of chairman and memberS for the board of QuaziS under the muSlim 
marriage and divorce act (chapter 115) aS amended by actS, no. 1 of 1965 and no. 32 of 1969
      district :
 1. Name with initial :
     eg. abdur Rahman m. i.
 2. full Name  :
     eg. mohammadu ishaq abdur Rahman
 3. Permanent Residence :
 4. Postal address :
 5. date of birth : d d    m m    y y      y    y 
the chairman of the board of Quazis will be paid 
a monthly allowance of Rs. 15,000 and a travelling 
allowance of Rs. 3,750 per meeting subject to a maximum 
of Rs. 15,000 per month and a member of the board of 
Quazis will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 12,000 and 
a travelling allowance of Rs. 2,000 per meeting subject to 
a maximum of Rs. 8,000 per month. 
applications, as per specimen below, should be sent by 
Registered Post to reach me on or before 22nd January, 
2017with words “board of Quazis” written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope. originals of documents 
should not be forwarded with the application. 
 
anandhi Kanagaratnam,
 Senior assistant Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission. 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
P. o. box 573, 
colombo 12, 
06th december, 2016. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3055
 6. age :
 7. Race :
 8. Religion :
 9. N. i. c. No. : 
 10. Phone No. :
 11. Academic Qualification : 
  1. ........................................... .......................................................................................................................................
  2. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  3. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  4. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  5. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
 12. Professional Qualification : 
  1. ........................................... .......................................................................................................................................
  2. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  3. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  4. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
  5. ...................................................................................................................................................................................
 13. Language which can read and write : 
 14. does the applicant posses knowledge of muslim Law ? :  y es  No
 15. are you married ? :   y es  No
 16. are you an attorney-at-Law ? :  y es  No
 17. if so, date of enrolment :  d   d    m    m    y     y     y    y
 18. Past and Present occupation (with date) : 
 From To Occupation Place
 19. Value of Possessed by assets : Rs.
 20. monthly income :  Rs.
 21. amount of debts if any :  Rs.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3056
 22. Were you actively engaged in politics during the last ten years ? :  y es  No
 23. are you an income tax payer ? :   y es  No
 24. Were there criminal cases against you ? or are there any pending criminal cases ? :     yes  No
 25. Particular of court convocation if any :
 26. Personal referees (they should be responsible person who known you well) : 
   Name : Name :
   
   address : address :
   Phone No. : Phone No. :
   
   occupation : occupation : 
   Period during which he has known you : Period during which he has known you : 
i truly and sincerely attest that the above information furnished by me is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
  –––––––––––––,
  yours faithfully. 
date :–––––––––––.
Note :  Attach all copies of the relevant certificates with this Application. 
12–1024
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
ThIRD  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION   
fOR  ThE  OffICERS  IN  GRADE  I  Of  SRI  
LANkA  TEChNOLOGICAL  SERvICE - 2016
(ThREE mONTh CERTIfICATE COuRSE ON 
mANAGEmENT)
IT is hereby notified that the aforesaid course shall be 
commenced on may 2017 as a weekend course to be 
conducted for on Saturdays for 15 weeks, by the faculty 
of management Studies and commerce University 
of Sri Jayawardhanapura as per the minute of Sri 
Lanka technological Service published by the Gazette 
extraordinary of the Government No. 1930/12 dated 
01.09.2015. 
02. (i) this course shall be conducted in English medium 
at the faculty of management Studies and 
commerce of University of Sri Jayawardhanapura 
and a final examination will be held for each 
subject at the end of the course. on the results of 
the said examination the passing of the course is 
determined and the applicants who have passed 
this course are treated as completed the Efficiency 
bar Examination mentioned above. the applicants 
shall be subjected to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the dean of the faculty with regard to 
selection of officers for the course, conducting the 
course, conducting the examinations and issuing 
the results, issuing certificates and granting 
concessionary periods. they shall be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by the University 
of Sri Jayawardhanapura and provisions of the 
Establishments code for violation of the rules and 
regulations imposed by the University. 
 (ii) you shall be informed with regard to the rules 
and regulations imposed by the University of 
Sri Jayawardhanapura and the course by the 
University at the beginning of the course. 
03. the specimen application for this course is published 
at the end of this notification. Applicants should prepare 
their own applications according to the specimen. in case 
where the officer belongs to the Sri Lanka Technological 
Service under the central Government, application of such 
officer shall be sent through the Head of the Department 
and in the meantime the officers in Sri Lanka Technological 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3057
Service under the Provincial Public Service shall send 
their applications through the Secretary of the Provincial 
Public Service commission in the Provincial council 
where they serve. the applications should be sent through 
registered post to dean, faculty of management studies 
and commerce, University of Sri Jayawardhanapura, 
Gangodawila, Nugegoda before 31st of January 2017. 
“Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade I 
of Sri Lanka technological Service - 2016 (three month 
certificate course on Management)” shall be indicated 
in top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is forwarded. the dean is empowered to 
reject the applications received after the closing date of 
applications without any inquiry. 
04. Identity.– candidates shall be required to prove their 
identity to the satisfaction of the dean of the faculty of 
management Studies and commerce of University of Sri 
Jayawardhanapura. for this purpose, one of the following 
documents shall be kept at the possession of the applicants 
at the beginning and also during the course in order to 
submit on requirement :
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons. 
 (b) identity card issued by the respective institution 
; or
  a  document issued by the respective institution 
to prove the identity. 
05. Application : 
 (i) applications should be prepared in a paper of 
a4 size. the application could be typewritten, 
but it should be filled in correctly and legibly in 
candidate’s own handwriting. at the occasions 
where it is specially mentioned, the applications 
shall be filled in the language medium specially 
mentioned. Special attention should be paid to 
the name of the officer, since the name is used as 
it is indicated in the application at all occasions 
within the course duration. if the said particulars 
are changed within the course duration, it should 
be informed to the dean, faculty of management 
Studies and commerce of University of Sri 
Jayawardhanapura in writing along with the 
recommendations of the Head of the Department. 
 (ii) Please indicate the title of the examination 
appearing in the specimen in English langauge as 
well, on both Sinhala and tamil appliction forms. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen 
and that have not been perfected properly will be 
rejected without notice. it is the responsibility of 
the candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the notification and further it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form. 
 (iii) a stamp size photograph of the applicant shall be 
pasted in the cage on the top right hand corner of 
the original application and another stamp size 
photograph shall be attached to the application. 
06. Course fee and examination fees :
 (i) The officers appearing for this course shall pay 
either by a cheque issued by the employer or 
by a bank draft of amount of Rs. 17,500 to the 
current account of the faculty development 
fund of the faculty of management 
Studies and commerce of University of Sri 
Jayawardhanapura No. of 097100140002229 
at People’s bank, Gangodawila branch. the 
receipt obtained by the candidate depositing the 
relevant amount shall be submitted to the dean of 
faculty of management Studies and commerce 
of University of Sri Jayawardhanapura one 
week before the commencing date of the course. 
institutional charges, printing fees, examination 
fees, allowances for resource providers and 
charges for coordination are included in the 
above amount. 
 (ii) If the officers who are unable to complete the 
examination of the course at the first occasion 
wish to sit for the examination at the consequent 
sittings, they are required to pay a registration 
fees of Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 per each subject. 
When making these payments, the instructions 
of the dean of the faculty of management 
Studies and commerce of University of Sri 
Jayawardhanapura shall be followed. 
 (iii) Under no circumstances, the course fee shall 
be refunded. the examination fee shall not 
be allowed to transfer in respect of any other 
examination or course or officer.
07. Requirement to follow the course : 
 (i) All the officers shall pass the Third Efficiency 
Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Sri 
Lanka technological Service before the lapse 
of five (05) years from the date of promotion 
to Grade i. 
 (ii) The officers who have completed five (05) 
years from the date of promotion to Grade 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3058
i of Sri Lanka technological Service as 
at 01.06.2013 shall be exempted from the 
requirement of passing the Third Efficiency 
bar Examination. 
Note.– Kindly note to pay the attention of the Head 
of the department regarding the seniority of each 
officer and the matters indicated in Para. 7 i and 
7 ii above. 
08. Selection for the course.– When officers are selected 
for the course, priority shall be given depending on the 
order of the seniority of the appointment of the officers 
who were promoted to Grade i of Sri Lanka technological 
Service. 
09. All the officers who have submitted applications 
shall be included in the data base maintained by the dean 
of the faculty of management Studies and commerce of 
University of Sri Jayawardhanapura and 800 persons shall 
be selected annually for the course. a list of names of the 
applicants who are selected for the course shall be published 
on the web side of the ministry of Public administration 
and Management. and it will be informed to the officers 
selected by the University of Sri Jayawardenapura. 
applications shall be called again for the course by a 
Gazette Notification only at the instances where sufficient 
number of applications has not been submitted. 
10. Syllabus of the course : 
 Serial Syllabus Number  Credit
 No.  of Hours
   Credits 
 01 Public finance management 02 30
 02 Human Recourse 02 30
  management  (basic theories)
 03 Conflict Management (Practical 02 30
  application of the theories on 
  Conflict Management in 
  achieving the goals and 
  objectives of the organization)
 
  04 organizational behavior 02 30
 05 Project Report 02 30
  a  research paper either on an 
  issue in the professional field of 
  candidate or the professional 
  field itself
   10 150
11. the decision of the Secretary to the ministry of 
Public Administration and Management shall be the final 
with regard to any matter not referred to herein. 
 J. J. rathnaSiri, 
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Public administration and 
 management. 
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07, 
08th december, 2016. 
(the Gazette Notification and the specimen application 
can be downloaded at www.pubad.gov.lk)
Specimen Application 
 Affix a stamp size 
 photograph here
(Official use only)      
THIRD  EffICIENCy  BAR  ExAMINATION   fOR 
THE  OffICERS  IN  GRADE I  of  SRi  LaNKa  
TECHNOLOGICAL  SERvICE - 2016
(Three Month Certificate Course on Management)
01. (a) Name with initials (indicate the initials at the end 
of the name) :––––––––––––––. 
  (in English block capital letters 
  eg. : GUNAWARDHANA M. G. B. S. K.)
 (b) Name in full :––––––––––––––. 
  (in English block capital letters)
 (c) Name in full :––––––––––––––. 
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
02. indicate whether you belong to Provincial Public 
Service, if not to which public service you belong :
 (Public Service - 10/Western Provincial Public Service 
- 01/central Provincial Public Service - 02/Southern 
Provincial Public Service - 03/Northern Provincial 
Public Service - 04/Eastern Provincial Public Service - 
05/North Western Provincial Public Service - 06/North 
central Provincial Public Service - 07/Uva Provincial 
Public Service - 08/Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public 
Service - 09)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3059
03. designation (in English block Letters) :––––––––. 
04. Sub department/division to which you belong :
 (in English block Letters) :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
05. department to which you belong :
  (in English block Letters) :–––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
06. Official Address : 
 (in English block capital letters) :––––––––––––. 
 (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––––. 
07. Personal address :
 (in English block capital letters) :––––––––––––. 
 (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––––. 
08. E-mail :––––––––––––––. 
09. t elephone Number :
 Official :
 Personal :
10. Gender :
   male    - m
   female - f
   (indicate the relevant letter in the cage)
11. National identity card No. : 
 (Affix a copy of the National Identity Card signed by 
the candidate to the effect that it is a true copy)
12. (i)  date of birth : 
  y ear : month : date :
 (ii) date of promotion to Grade i :
  y ears : months : days :
 (iii) active service period in Grade i as at 31.01.2017 : 
  y ears : months : d ays :
   (Submit the copy of the letter of promotion to 
Grade i signed by the candidate to the effect that it 
is a true copy as an attachment)
 (iv) Service period in Grade i as at 01.06.2013 : 
  y ears : months : d ays :
i declare that the foregoing particulars are correct and i 
am bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the dean 
of the faculty of management Studies and commerce, 
University of Sri Jayawardhanapura with regard to 
conducting the course, examination and issuing results and 
the rules and regulations specified in the Establishments 
code.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate. 
date :––––––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature 
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss .............................
....... who is an officer working at my office and is known 
to me personally placed his/her signature before me on 
......................  .
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester and  
 official stamp. 
date :––––––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
i hereby certify that the particulars mentioned in 
paragraphs 01 to 12 are accurate and the candidate is an 
officer in Sri Lanka Technological Service who is eligible 
to follow this course as per the note in paragraph 07 and it 
is possible for the department to pay the prescribed course 
fee. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department  
 and  Official Stamp.
date :––––––––––––––.
Check List :
 (a) a  copy of the National identity card signed by  
the candidate to the effect that it is a true copy is 
attached.
 (b) A stamp size photograph is affixed on the top  
right hand corner of the application. 
 (c) a  stamp size photograph is attached with the 
application. 
 (d) a  copy of the letter of promotion to grade i  signed  
by the candidate to the effect that it is  a true copy 
is attached.
12-1010

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3060
mINISTRy  Of  hEALTh,  NuTRITION 
AND  INDIGENOuS  mEDICINE  OPEN 
RECRuITmENT  TO  ThE  POSTS  Of 
"vACCINATION  fIELD  ASSISTANT"  AND 
"ANImAL  uNIT  CONTROLLER" - 2016
aPPLicatioNS are called from eligible Sri Lankan 
male applicants to fill 09 vacancies exist in the post of 
"Vaccination field assistant" and 04 Vacancies in the post 
of "animal Unit controller" in the institutions including 
Public Health veterinary Service Institute in Narahenpita 
which is under the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous medicine. 
2. Educational Qualifications relevant to the post :
 
 (a) Should have passed six (06) subjects with 
4 credit passes for Sinhala/ tamil/English 
language and mathematics and 2 other 
subjects in one sitting at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination ; 
and
 (b) Should have passed at least one subject (except 
common General test) at the G. c. E. (a/L) 
examination. 
3. experience : 
 (a) Vaccination Field Assistant.- should have 
experience not less than one year in a 
Government institution or a Private institution 
affiliated to the Government (should prove by 
certificates).
 (b) Animal unit Controller.- Should have obtained a 
certificate that you have worked as a community 
leader or a scout for a period of not even than 
one year. 
4. Vocational Qualifications : 
 
 (a) Vaccination field assistant.- not applicable. 
 (b) animal Unit controller.- Should have obtained 
a certificate that you have experience in 
controlling dogs for a period of one year 
obtained by a government institution or an 
institution affiliated to the Government or a 
Private institution. 
5. Other Qualifications :
 (a) male applicants who should be not less than 
18 years and not more than 30 years of age by 
25.01.2017.
 (b) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
 (c) Should be excellent in character. 
 (d) Should have satisfied the qualifications required 
to recruit to the post as at the closing date of 
application in all respects. 
 (e) Should be fit physically and mentally to serve in 
any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of 
the post. 
6. Method of Application : 
 (a) applications should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form of application appended 
to this notification using both sides of a paper 
of size a4 and numbers from 01.0 to 5.1 should 
appear on the first side of the page and numbers 
from 5.2 to 8.0 should appear on the second side. 
the application should be perfected in the hand 
writing of the candidate. 
 (b) if apply for both posts, preferences for the two 
posts must be mentioned clearing in the relevant 
place. 
 (c) the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 500 to the 
credit of the account of "director General 
of health Services collection of Exam fees"                      
No. 7041318 of the bank of ceylon, traprobane 
Branch should be affixed so as not be detached, on 
the place where it is mentioned "Receipt" in the 
application. (Please keep a copy of the receipt).
 (d) candidate's signature in the application should be 
attested by a Principal of a Government School 
or a Justice of the Peace or a commissioner for 
oaths or a Notary Public or an attorney-at-Law, 
or a Commissioned Officer in the Armed forces 
or an officer holding a Gazette of post in the 
Police Service or an officer holding a permanent 
post in the public service who gets an annual 
consolidated salary more than Rs. 334,452.
 (e) the words "Recruitment for the Post of 
........................... - 2016" should be mentioned on 
the top left hand corner of the envelope of size 
9"x4" in which the duly completed application is 
enclosed and it should be sent to reach director 
(administration) 03, ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous medicine "Suwasiripaya",                  
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero 
mawatha, colombo 10 under registered post on 
or before 23.01.2017.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3061
7. Employees in Government or Semi Government Services should submit applications through their Head of 
the department. 
8. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged and applications which will be received after the closing 
date will be rejected. the applications which are not complying to the above terms and the relevant specimen form given 
in this notification will be rejected without any notice. 
9. Method of Recruitment.- the applicants who obtain the highest marks on the basis of the results of written 
examination which is conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine will be 
recruited for Grade iii of the relevant post according to the number of vacancies after referring them to an interview which 
is held to inspect the physical fitness and qualifications of candidates. 
10. Details of Written examination : 
Question paper Syllabus Duration Maximum
Marks
Minimum
Pass Mark
1. General knowledge testing logical explanation and general 
knowledge in relation to the field
02 hours 100 40%
2. intelligence test testing the candidate's ability of understanding 
the meaning, qualification and co-relation 
between the time and space through the 
conclusions and responses of candidates to the 
problems given in  terms, numbers and pictures
01 1/2 hours 100 40%
11. Identity of Candidates.- candidates who have completed application in all respects will only be called for the 
written examination. following documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination :
 (a) National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons.
 (b) Valid passport. 
 (c) Valid driving license.
12. Terms of engagement and conditions of service : 
 (a) y ou should be subject to the policy decision taken by the Government in future in respect of salary 
scheme assigned to you. 
 (b) this post is probation for a period of three (03) years.
 (c) y ou should obtain the proficiency in other official language in addition to the language you entered 
the service within 05 years from the date of appointment in terms of Public administration circular 
01/2014 and circulars indicated thereto. 
 (d) y ou should pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years. 
 (e) Selected applicants shall be subjected to the recruitment procedure of management assistant                                 
Non-technical Segment 2 Service category and amendments made thereto from time to time, 
Establishments code, financial Regulations, Procedural Rules issued by the Public Service commission 
and orders and regulations issued by the Government. 
13. the numbers of appointments will be decided considering the number of existing vacancies. accordingly, 
if the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, decides to grant permanent appointments to the post of 
Vaccination field assistant and animal Unit controller, actions will be taken to appoint the candidates to the class 
iii of the said posts in terms of the conditions in the scheme of recruitment. this post is entitled for the salary scale of             
mN-01-2016 Rs. 27,140 -10x300 - 11x350 - 10x495 - 10x660 - Rs. 45,540 in terms of Public administration circular  
No. 03/2016 and the salary will be paid according to the provisions mentioned in the circular.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3062
14. Applications which are not in compliance with the specimen form of application not satisfied required 
qualifications, not paid the fees properly, furnished not incomplete particulars and delayed are rejected without any notice. 
complains on misplaced or delay of applications are not accepted. 
15. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in 
the application. If the above certificates are proved to the counterfeit, actions will be taken to refer to the Criminal 
investigation department for legal actions, to cancel the appointment and to enter his name in the black list of those who 
are not permitted to be re-employed in the Public Service after taking legal actions against him. 
16. The decision of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine's will be final on 
any matter covered or uncovered by this Gazette notification. Secretary of Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine will make the final decision to fill all the vacancies or to fill the some of vacancies. 
17. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
"Suwasiripaya", 
Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous medicine, 
colombo 10, 
17th November, 2016. 
Specimen form of Application
CALLING  APPLICATIONS  fOR  THE OPEN  COMPETITIvE  ExAMINATION  TO  RECRUIT  TO  THE 
PoStS  of  V acciNatioN  fiELd  aSSiStaNt aNd  aNimaL  UNit  coNtRoLLER  iN  GRadE  iii of 
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANT  NON-TECHNICAL  SEGMENT - 2 (MN-01-2006(A)  SERvICE  CATEGORy  
IN  PUBLIC  HEALTH  vETERINARy  SERvICE  WHICH  IS  UNDER  THE  MINISTRy  Of  HEALTH,  
NUtRitioN  aNd  iNdiGENoUS  mEdiciNE - 2016
medium for the Post :       applied to the post and the preference
 Sinhala - 1        Post Preference
 t amil - 2  Vaccination field assistant
 English - 3  animal Unit controller
 (mentioned the relevant number in the cage)
01.   (a) Name of the applicant with initials (in block capitals) eg.- mr. SiLVa a. b. 
    mr./mrs./ms. :–––––––––––.
   (b) Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
   (c) Name in full (in Sinhala or tamil) :–––––––––––.
02.   (i) Permanent address (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
   (ii) Permanent address (in Sinhala or tamil) :–––––––––––.
   (iii) district of Residence :–––––––––––.
   (iv) t elephone No. :–––––––––––.
   (v) address to which the admission for the examination should be posted -(in English block letters) :––––––––.
03.   (i) date of birth : y ear : month : date :
   (ii) National identity card Number :
   (iii) age as at the closing date of applications : y ears : months : days :

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.12.2016
3063
04.   (i) Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka : y es No        (mark P in the relevant cage)
05. Educational Qualifications (Relevant certificates should be attached) : 
  (i)  G. c. E. (ordinary Level) Examinations : y ear :–––––––––––. index No. :–––––––––––.
No. Subject Result No. Subject Result
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
 
  (ii)   G. c. E. (advanced Level) Examinations : y ear :–––––––––––. index No. :–––––––––––.
No. Subject Result No. Subject Result
1. 3.
2. 4.
   (iii) Experience :  y es  No            (mark P in the relevant cage) 
    Give relevant particulars :––––––––––.
   (iv) v ocational Qualifications (Relevant to the post of Animal Unit Controller) :   yes   No  
    (mark 
P in the relevant cage) 
    Give relevant particulars  :–––––––––––.
06. Have you ever been convicted before a court of law ?  yes        No           (Mark 
P in the relevant cage)
       Give relevant particulars, if yes :–––––––––––.
07. Certificate of the applicant : 
i hereby certify that the particular furnished herein are true and correct to my knowledge and belief, and that 
receipt obtained by paying examination fees is affixed. I accept that if any information herein found to be incorrect or false 
prior to selection my application will be rejected and if so found after selection i am liable to be dismissed from service 
without any compensation. 
Affix here the receipt obtained by paying the fees. Keep a photocopy of the receipt
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the signature of the applicant
i certify that mr./mrs./miss .................................... is known to the personally and he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence on .............................
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attestor. 
date :–––––––––––.
full name of the attestor :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Should be authenticate with the official stamp).
12-903
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  Of  GOvERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.