

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2416$10 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 24 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2024.12.24
No. 2416/10  -  Tuesday,   december  24,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6957 - 19 (12/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ThE  uRbAN  DEvELOPmENT  AuThORITY  LAw  No. 41  Of 1978
Order under Section 3
by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 3 of the urban development authority Law No. 41, 1978,1 anura 
Karunathilaka, the Minister of Urban Development, Construction and Housing being opinion that area specified in  
Column I of the Schedule here to and having the metes and bounds specified in the corresponding entry in column II of that 
schedule is suitable for development, do by this Order, declare such area to be an urban development area for the purpose 
of that section.
 
 A
nurA KArunAthilAKA, (m.P)
 minister of urban development, construction and Housing.
ministry of urban development, construction and Housing,
12th Floor,
sethsiripaya stage II,
battaramulla,
17th december, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.2024
2a
Column I
according to the Extraordinary Gazette Notification of 
the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka No. 100/4 
and dated 04.08.1980, declared as an urban development 
authority area, balangoda Town, balangoda, Pallekanda 
and Kirimetitenna, in the divisional assistant Government 
division of balangoda and in the Grama Niladhari division 
of morahela in the divisional assistant Government 
agent’s division of Imbulpe in the ratnapura district in the 
Province of sabaragamuwa and the Extraordinary Gazette 
Notification of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka No. 1741/5 and dated 17.01.2012, declared as an 
urban development authority area, No.256a  balangoda 
Town Grama Niladhari division , Part of No.256 balangoda 
Grama Niladhari division, Part of No.250b dehigastalawa 
division, Part of No.255c Thalangama Grama Niladhari 
division, Part of No.256c Tumbagoda Grama Niladhari 
division, Part of 256b Kiridigala Grama Niladhari division, 
Part of 255b Kumaragama Grama Niladhari division, 
Part of 264d Oluganthota Grama Niladhari division, Part 
of 255a  allepola Grama Niladhari division, Part of 250 
Kirimatithanna Grama Niladhari division, Part of 254F 
bulathgama Grama Niladhari division in addition of 
remaining part of 256 balangoda Grama Niladhari division, 
remaining part of 250b dehigastalawa Grama Niladhari 
division, remaining part of 255c Talangama Grama 
Niladhari division, remaining part of 256c Tumbagoda 
Grama Niladhari division, remaining part of 256b 
Kiridigala Grama Niladhari division, remaining part of 
255b Kumaragama Grama Niladhari division, remaining 
part of 255a  allepola Grama Niladhari division, remaining 
part of 250 Kirimatithanna Grama Niladhari division, 
remaining part of 254F bulathgama Grama Niladhari 
division, remaining part of 252b Wikiliya Grama Niladhari 
division, remaining part of 250a  Thotupalathanna Grama 
Niladhari division including the total area described in 
column II hereof.
scHeduLe 
Expansion of balangoda urban Development Area
Column II
North:
From the starting point where the center line of the rassagala 
road intersects the Western boundary of bulathgama Grama 
Niladhari division to Northwestwards, eastwards and 
southeastwards along the Western, Northern and eastern 
boundaries of the said Grama Niladhari division to the point 
where it meets the eastern boundary of bulathgama Grama 
Niladhari and the Northern boundary of Tumbagoda Grama 
Niladhari division. Thence along the Northern boundary of 
Tumbagoda Grama Niladhari division to southeastwards to 
the point where it meets the eastern boundary of Tumbagoda 
Grama Niladhari division and Western border of Kiridigala 
Grama Niladhari division. Thence along the Western and 
Northern borders of Kiridigala Grama Niladhari division to 
southeastwards to the point where it meets the boundaries 
declared by the urban development authority Extraordinary 
Gazette No. 1741/5 dated 17.01.2012. Thence along with the 
boundaries declared by the said Extraordinary Gazette to the 
point where it meets the eastern boundary of the Kiridigala 
Grama Niladhari division..
East:
From the last mentioned point, southeastwards and 
southwards along the eastern boundary of the Kiridigala 
Grama Niladhari division to the point where it meets the 
Northern and eastern boundaries of the dehigastalawa 
Grama Niladhari division. Thence along the eastern 
boundary of the dehigastalawa Grama Niladhari division 
to southeastwards to the point where it meets the Northern 
boundary of the Thotupalatenna Grama Niladhari division. 
Thence along the Northern and eastern boundaries of 
the same Thotupalatenna Grama Niladhari division to 
eastwards and southwards to the point where it meets 
the Northern boundary of the Wikiliya Grama Niladhari 
division. Thence along the Northern boundary of the said 
Wikiliya Grama Niladhari division to southeastwards to the 
point where it intersects the center line of the balangoda-
Kalthota main road.
South:
From the last mentioned point, along the eastern and 
southern boundaries of the Wikiliya Grama Niladhari 
division to southwards and Northwestwards to where 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.12.2024
3a
Column I Column II
it meets the eastern boundary of the Talangama Grama 
Niladhari division. Thence along the eastern, southern and 
western boundaries of the said Talangama Grama Niladhari 
division to southwards, W estwards and Northwards until 
to the point where it meets the W estern boundary of the 
ellepola Grama Niladhari division. Thence along the 
W estern boundary of the said Grama Niladhari division to 
Northwards to the point where it intersects the center line of 
the colombo-balangoda main road.
West:
From the last mentioned point intersecting the colombo 
balangoda road, along the western boundary of ellepola 
Grama Niladhari division to the Northeastwards to the 
point where it meets the southern boundary of balangoda 
Grama Niladhari division to Westwards and Northwards 
along the southern and Western boundaries of balangoda 
Grama Niladhari division to the point where it meets the 
southern and Western boundaries of Tumbagoda Grama 
Niladhari division. Thence along the Western boundary of 
the Tumbagoda Grama Niladhari division to Northwards 
and Northwestwards to the point where it meets the southern 
boundary of the bulathgama Grama Niladhari division. 
Thence along the southern and Western boundaries of the 
bulathgama Grama Niladhari division to W estwards and 
northwards up to the starting point where it intersects the 
center line of the rassagala road.
 scHeduLe  (Contd.)
EOG 12 - 0236
PrintED A t thE DEPArtMEnt  OF GOVErnMEnt  PrintinG,  Sri lAnKA.