

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2400$40- 2024 iema;eïn¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2024.09.06
No. 2400/40  -  Friday,  September 06,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
TAX  APPEALS  COmmISSION  ACT,  No. 23 Of 2011
rULeS made by the tax appeals Commission under section 8 of the tax appeals Commission act, No. 23 of 2011 as last 
amended by act, No. 20 of 2013.
 Justice  P. W. D. C. Jayathilake, 
 the Chairman,
 tax appeals Commission. 
Colombo,
4th, September, 2024.
Rules (amendment)
   rules made by the tax appeals Commission under section 8 of the tax appeals Commission act, No. 23 of 2011 
and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1760/4 dated 28 may 2012 is hereby amended as follows:
 1. by the insertion, immediately after sub rule (2) of rule 12, of the following sub rules: -
“(3) all the specific issues on which the appeal is based shall be clearly stated in the petition of appeal 
submitted by the appellant.
1a - pG 6865 - 24 (09/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.09.2024
2a
(4) the written submissions submitted to the Commission by the appellant and the respondent shall clearly 
and in unambiguous terms indicate the facts on which they rely on, to prove their respective cases before the 
Commission.
(5) Where the appellant relies on any document in support of his appeal, certified copies of such documents 
shall be  submitted along with the petition of appeal.
(6) at the hearing of the appeal –
 (a) the appellant shall not be allowed to present before the Commission any matter or matters not 
specified in or not revealed by the petition of appeal, unless permission therefor has first been 
obtaine d from the Commission;
 (b) the respondent shall not be allowed to present any fact which has not been disclosed, either in the 
determination or in the administrative review decision of the Commissioner-General of inland 
revenue, which is the subject matter of the appeal or in the written submissions filed before the 
Commission by the respondent in support of such determination or the administrative review 
decisi on as the case may be:
     provided however, where the Commission is satisfied with the reasons given by the 
respondent as to why the respondent failed to disclose such facts in such determination or in 
such administrative review decision, or in such submissions, the Commission may allow such 
facts to be p resented before it; and
 (c) only one representative of the appellant or the respondent as the case may be, shall be permitted 
to make submissions before the Commission during a particular session on behalf of the appellant 
or the respondent as the case may be, and such representative shall by himself or herself conclude 
his or her submissions as the case may be , for the day.
(7)  the Commission may allow the appellant to file counter written submissions in response to written 
submissions filed by the respondent if request is made therefor by the appellant at the time of calling the 
appeal:
  provided however, at the hearing of the appeal or thereafter the appellant shall not be permitted to 
present any document to counter any matter presented by the respondent in his written submissions unless 
prior approval of the Commission has been obtained therefor. 
(8) When the Commission makes its determination on the appeal submitted by the appellant, if any 
member of the Commission has a view different to that of the other two members of the Commission on 
any matter which is the subject of such determination, such member may express such view as a dissenting 
decision.
(9) the determination of the Commission shall be deemed to be the decision reached by the consent of the 
majority of the members of the Commission.”.
 2. by the insertion, immediately after rule 14, of the following:
“14a. the attire of the representatives of the appellant and the respondent who appear before the 
Commission to make their respective submissions to the Commission shall be the business attire or any formal 
attire :
provided however, the attorneys -at- Law who appear before the Commission to represent the appellant or 
the respondent as the may be, shall follow the dress code specified in the “attire of Judges and attorneys-at-
Law rules, 1978”(as amended),made by the Supreme Court under article 136 of the Constitution . 
eOG 09 - 0057 
PRiNteD at  the DeP aR tMeNt  OF GOVeRNMeNt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi laNka.