

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 9.50  Postage  :  Rs. 4.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 09, 2004
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 6th January, 2004]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
LOCAL TREASURY BILLS (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  1  OF  2004

<!-- page 2 -->

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
1
Short title.
Amendment of
section 6 of the
Local Treasury
Bills Ordinance
(Chapter 417).
Insertion of new
sections 7
A , 7B
and 7C  in the
principal
enactment.
2 —H 19293 — 5,650 (09/2003)
[Certified on 6th January, 2004]
L. D. — O. 45/2003.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  LOCAL  TREASURY  BILLS ORDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Local Treasury Bills
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2004.
2. Section 6 of the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance
(Chapter 417) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the substitution for the
words “at the Treasury in Colombo when the Treasury Bills
fall due” of the words “when the Treasury Bills fall due :
Provided however that if the day on which a Treasury Bill
falls due is a day on which the Central Bank is not open for
business, payment shall be made in accordance with such
procedures as may be prescribed.
3. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 7 of the principal enactment, and
shall have effect as sections 7
A , 7B  and 7C  of that enactment :—
7A . Without prejudice to anything
contained in this Ordinance particularly the
provisions of sections 8, 9, 10 and 11, the
Central Bank shall regulate, supervise and
monitor the primary dealers and the designated
non dealer bidders with respect to their
transactions in Treasury Bills issued in the form
of written certificates.
7
B . The Minister may, by notification
published in the Gazette and in two local
newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and English,
notify the public of a day, from which, Treasury
Bills may be issued in the form of Scripless
Treasury Bills.
“Central
Bank to
supervise or
to monitor
the transac-
tions of
primary
dealers and
non dealer
bidders.
Issue of
Scripless
Treasury
Bills

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
7C . (1) The Central  Bank may by
notification published in the Gazette and in
two local newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and
English, require the holders of Treasury Bills
issued in the form of written certificates having
a specified date of maturity, if they so desire, to
surrender such Bills for conversion into
Scripless Treasury Bills in accordance with such
procedure as may be prescribed. Such Treasury
Bills shall upon conversion into Scripless
Treasury Bills be deemed to be Scripless
Treasury Bills issued under this Ordinance.
(2) Nothing contained in subsection (1)
shall be construed as affecting or discharging
the liability of the Government under this
Ordinance in respect of a Treasury Bill which is
not converted into a Scripless Treasury Bill as
provided for in subsection (1).”.
4. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that subsection and
the substitution therefor of the following
paragraph :—
“(b) the period within which the maturity proceeds
paid on Scripless Treasury Bills in such
accounts shall be paid to  customers or persons
entitled thereto;”;
(2) in paragraph (e) of that subsection by the substitution for
the words “pledged or encumbered.”; of the words “pledged
or encumbered;”;  and
(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (e) of
that subsection of the following new paragraph :—
“(f) the furnishing of information to the Central
Bank, the manner, means and periods at which
such information shall be furnished to the
Central Bank.”.
Conversion
of Treasury
Bills issued in
the form of
written
certificates.
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
3
 
5. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section  is substituted therefor :—
9. (1) The Central Bank, may in writing
appoint any primary  dealer or other person to
be a direct participant who shall be entitled to
maintain accounts in respect of Scripless
Treasury Bills as are specified in subsection (2).
(2) A direct participant shall maintain in a
depository referred to in the Monetary Law Act,
Securities Accounts to hold Scripless Treasury
Bills and other scripless securities to which such
direct participant has title and to record the
interest of such direct participant in Scripless
Treasury Bills and other Scripless securities in
accordance with the rules and regulations made
under the Monetary Law Act.
(3) The Central Bank shall pay to a direct
participant the maturity proceeds on Scripless
Treasury Bills in respect of which such direct
participant is recorded as owner in accounts
maintained by a direct participant under
subsection (2) on the day such maturity proceeds
become payable.
(4) The Central Bank may inspect and take
copies of any books, records or accounts
maintained by a direct participant relating to
or affecting any Scripless Treasury Bills held
in its own account or in the case of a dealer
direct participant, with respect to its own
account as well as those held in customers’
accounts. The direct participant and its officers,
directors, employees, servants and agents shall
furnish to the Central Bank all such books,
records correspondence or any other document
as may be required by the Central Bank and
shall provide the Central Bank with all such
assistance as it may require to perform the duties
imposed on the Central Bank by this Ordinance
in respect of issue of Scripless Treasury Bills.
‘Direct
Participants.
Replacement of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
The provisions of this section shall apply to
any book, record, accounts and correspondence
maintained in an electronic form.
   (5) In the event of the Government
incurring any liability or making payment of
any maturity proceeds with respect to a Scripless
Treasury Bill and where such liability arises or
such payment is made in consequence or by
reason of any default of a direct participant or a
dealer direct participant, such participant shall
be liable on demand by the  Government, to
indemnify the Government with respect to such
liability or payment.
(6)   For   the   purpose   of   this     section
“default” includes —
(a) any negligence or failure on the part of a direct
participant or a dealer direct participant in
carrying out of any function or the discharging
of any duty assigned to or imposed on, him ,by
this Ordinance or by any other written law in
relation to any matter dealt with by this
Ordinance ; and
(b) any act or omission on the part of direct
participant or dealer direct participant
which constitutes an offence under this
Ordinance or any other written law in
relation to any matter dealt with by this
Ordinance —
(i) whether or not there has been any
prosecution in respect of such offence; or
(ii) whether such act or omission was by
the direct participant or the dealer
direct participant or by any director,
officer, employee or agent of such
direct participant or dealer direct
participant.’.

<!-- page 6 -->

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
5
6. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7),
(8) and (9) of that section and the substitution therefor of the
following subsections :—
“(2) A dealer direct participant shall, in addition
to maintaining accounts required to be maintained
under subsection (2) of section 9, maintain in a
depositary referred to in the Monetary Law Act,
accounts in respect of each of its customers to hold
Scripless Treasury Bills and other scripless securities
to which each such customer has title and to record the
interests of each such customer in Scripless Treasury
Bills and other scripless securities in accordance with
the regulations and rules made under the Monetary
Law Act.
(3) The Central Bank shall pay to a dealer direct
participant, in addition to the payments referred to in
subsection (3) of section 9, the maturity proceeds on
Scripless Treasury Bills in respect of which a customer
or such dealer direct participant is recorded as owner
in accounts maintained by such dealer direct participant
under subsection  (2), on the day such maturity
proceeds become payable.
(4) No person other than a dealer direct participant
may transact in Scripless Treasury Bills on behalf of
any other person. Any person other than a direct
participant and the Central Bank desiring either to
make a transfer or to take a transfer of Scripless Treasury
Bills shall do so only through a dealer direct participant.
(5) A dealer direct participant shall maintain books
and records to enable it to perform and discharge its
duties and functions under this Ordinance and to
discharge its obligations to its customers and shall
comply with directions, if any, issued by the Central
Bank for such purpose.
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
(6) Upon receipt by a dealer direct participant of
any amount by way of payment from the Central Bank
in terms of subsection (3) in respect of Scripless Treasury
Bills held in a customer account, the dealer direct
participant shall pay such amount, within the time
specified in any direction issued by the Central Bank,
to the customer or to any other party entitled to such
payment by law or in terms of a written agreement to
which the dealer direct participant and the customer
are party.
(7) If a dealer direct participant is unable, for any
reason to effect payment to a customer or to a party
entitled to payment in terms of subsection (6), within
the time specified in any directions issued by the
Central Bank, the dealer direct participant shall within
such period as may be specified in such directions,
transfer the sum remaining unpaid to a prescribed
account of the Central Bank and shall provide the
Central Bank with such information as may be required
by the Central Bank with regard to the payment and
the customer or other party, as the case may be.
(8) The sums of money transferred to a prescribed
account of the Central Bank in terms of subsection (7)
shall be paid to persons entitled thereto and any monies
lying unclaimed shall be dealt with or disposed of by
the Central Bank in such manner as is prescribed by
regulations made for such purpose.
(9) A dealer direct participant shall, except to the
extent required for the proper conduct of its business
and administration, maintain confidentiality in respect
of accounts maintained for a customer and any matter
connected therewith and shall not disclose to any
person except to the Central Bank, any information
relating to an account of a customer unless authorized
to do so in writing by the customer, or except where it
is required to do so under any law or by an Order of
Court.”.

<!-- page 8 -->

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
7
7. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
11. (1) Where a transfer of title to a
Scripless Treasury Bill is made by a dealer
direct participant from or into an account
maintained for a customer under subsection (2)
of section 10, or an interest of any customer in
a Scripless Treasury Bill is recorded or any
amendment or variation is made in respect of
any such interest in any Scripless Treasury Bill
in such account, such dealer direct participant
shall issue to such customer a confirmation in
accordance with such directions as may from
time to time be issued by the Central Bank.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall
not be construed as derogating from any
obligation imposed under the Monetary Law
Act on the provider of depository facilities for
Scripless Securities, to issue statements or
confirmations in respect of accounts maintained
in such depositary and in the event of any
conflict or inconsistency between a statement
or confirmation so issued by the depositary and
the statement or confirmation issued under
subsection (1), the statement or confirmation
issued by the depositary, shall prevail.
(3) Subject to the provisions of any
applicable written law, a dealer direct
participant shall be wholly responsible and
liable to customers in respect of all transfers
taken or made by such customer through such
dealer direct participant.
(4) The confirmation referred to in
subsection (1) shall not be capable of being
negotiated and shall be used solely as evidence
of dealings between such dealer direct
participant and the customer in respect of
Scripless Treasury Bills to which it relates.
“Transfer of
Scripless
Treasury
Bills.
Replacement of
section 11 of the
principal
eanctment.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
Amendment of
section 14 of the
principal
enactment.
(5) The Central Bank may permit any
notification,  confirmation,  acknowledgment
or receipt required under this section to be issued
in a non written form and to be transmitted or
delivered by wire, telephone, satellite cable or
any other such electronic, magnetic or optical
media, as may be specified from time to time,
by the Central Bank in that behalf.
(6) An electronic record of a Scripless
Treasury Bill or any notification, confirmation,
acknowledgment, receipt or other document or
record issued or maintained for the purposes of
this  Ordinance in an electronic form, shall not
be denied legal effect, validity or enforceability
solely on the grouns that such Scripless Treasury
Bill is  maintained  in  an  electronic  form or
that such notification confirmation,
acknowledgment, receipt or other document or
record is issued or maintained in electronic form
and such notifcation confirmation,
acknowledgment, receipt or other document may
be tendered in evidence in proceedings before
any court or tribunal in accordance with Part II
and Part III of the Evidence (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 14 of 1995 or any other law for the time
being in force in relation to the tendering of
computer evidence before any court or tribunal.”.
8. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section by the repeal of
subsection (2) thereof and by the substitution therefor of the
following subsection :—
“(2) Any person guilty of an offence under this
Ordinance shall be liable on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding ten
million  rupees or where the offence has resulted in
monetary loss or monetary gain or a loss or gain which

<!-- page 10 -->

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
9
is quantifiable in monetary terms to any person, to a
fine equivalent to twice the value of such loss or gain
or to both such imprisonment and fine.”.
9. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 15 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 15
A  and 15B  of that enactment :—
15A . The Scripless Treasury Bills issued
under this Ordinance shall be transferred
pledged, encumbered, lent, borrowed or
otherwise transacted in, as provided by
regulations and any transfer, pledge,
encumbrance, loan, borrowing or any other
transaction effected accordingly shall be valid
and effectual notwithstanding any other written
law relating to transactions in Treasury Bills
issued in the form of written certificates.
15
B . (1) The Central Bank may with the
consent of Court having regard to the
circumstances in which an offence under this
Ordinance was committed, compound such
offence for a sum of money not exceeding rupees
five million or where the offence has resulted
in monetary loss or monetary gain or a loss or
gain which is quantifiable in monetary terms to
any person for a sum of money equivalent to
one and a half times the value of such loss or
gain.
(2) The compounding of an offence under
this section shall have the effect of an acquittal.”.
10. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the substitution for the definition of the
expression “customer” of the following new
definition :—
‘ “customer” in relation to a dealer direct participant
means any person who purchases or sells or
otherwise acquires or disposes of Scripless
Insertion of
section 15
A  and
15B  in the
principal
enactment.“Transactions
in Scripless
Securities.
Compounding
of offences.
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
Treasury Bills or an interest therein through such
dealer direct participant or who negotiates with
such dealer direct participant for the possible
acquisition or disposition of such bill or interest
and shall include where the context so permits a
legal representative of such customer or of the
estate of such customer;’;
(2) by the addition immediately after the definition of
the expression “interdealer broker” of the following
new definition :—
‘ “Monetary Law Act” means the Monetary Law Act,
(Chapter 422) as amended from time to time and
shall include any enactment that replaces such Act
in relation to the matters contained therein and
where any section is specifically referred to in this
Ordinance the reference shall be taken to include
corresponding sections in the subsequent
enactment ; ’;
‘ “securities account” shall have the same meaning as
in the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422).’.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 12 -->

Local Treasury Bills (Amendment)
Act No. 1 of 2004
11
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.