

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
NA TION AL INSTITUTE OF OCCUP A TION AL
SAFETY AND HEAL TH  ACT, No. 38 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 23rd July, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 10.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 24, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
2—PL 003679—  4,250 (2/2009)
[Certified on 23rd July, 2009]
L.D.—O. 24/2007
A N  A CT  TO  PR O VIDE  FOR  THE  EST ABLISHMENT  OF  THE  N ATION AL
INSTITUTE  OF  OCCUP ATION AL  SAFETY  AND  HEAL TH  FOR  THE
FORMULA TION  OF  A  POLICY  ON  OCCUP ATION AL  SAFETY  AND  HEAL TH
STAND ARDS ; TO  CREA TE  AN  ENVIR ONMENT  FOR  OCCUP ATION AL  SAFETY
AND  HEAL TH  AT ALL  W ORKPLA CES  TO  PRO TECT  BO TH  THE  EMPLO YERS
AND  EMPLO YEES ; AND  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENT AL  THERET O .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the National Institute of
Occupational Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009 and
shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may
appoint by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed date”).
PAR T I
E
STABLISHMENT  OF  THE  N ATION AL  INSTITUTE  OF  OCCUP ATION AL
SAFETY  AND  HEAL TH
2. (1) There shall be established an Institute which shall
be called the N ational Institute of Occupational Safety and
Health (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”).
(2) The Institute shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. (1) The general objects of the Institute shall be—
(a) to advise the Government in the formulation of a
national policy on occupational safety and health
and on the working environment both for employers
and employees taking into consideration the nature
of the occupation and the safety of the employers
and employees;
Short title.
Establishment of
the N ational
Institute of
Occupational
Safety and
Health.
General objects
of the Institute.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(b) to advise the Government on measures required for
the prevention of accidents and injuries relating, to
occupation at work places;
(c) to conduct, undertake and assist in investigations,
study programmes, surveys and research in the field
of occupational safety and health;
(d) to provide advisory services to any institution or
person on the correct use of equipment, hazardous
substances, physical, chemical or biological agents
or products or any other hazards;
(e) to educate and provide necessary training to
employees, occupiers, workers or any other person
required of knowledge and training in occupational
safety and health and related subjects either in
collaboration with any other institution or
university in Sri Lanka or abroad, or by the Institute
and award certificates or diplomas on completion
of such education or training;
(f) to provide required services on the correct use of
equipment, hazardous substances, physical,
chemical, biological agents or products and
psychosocial hazards and avoidance of known
hazards;
(g) (i) to advise the Minister on legislative
requirements with regard to standards, codes,
practices and guidelines in matters relating to
occupational safety and health;
(ii)to evaluate and determine the work process,
the substances and agents, the exposure to
which is be prohibited, limited or made subject
to supervision ;
(h) to undertake or collaborate in the collection,
preparation, dissemination  and publishing of
information relating to occupational safety and
health;

<!-- page 4 -->

3 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(i) to organize or to sponsor conferences, seminars,
workshops, symposiums or such other similar
programmes and publish papers in connection with
occupational safety and health;
(j) to co-ordinate inter-ministerial projects,
programmes and activities on occupational safety
and health;
(k) to establish and maintain libraries and laboratories
for the purpose of promoting and furthering of the
practice of occupational safety and health;
(l) to develop research and special laboratories;
(m ) to liaise and establish links and networks with
relevant National and International Institutions,
Universities or any other organizations in the field
of occupational safety and health; and
(n) to establish national standards in the field of
occupational safety and health.
(2) The Institute shall advise the Minister in addition to
advise relating to the matter specified in paragraph (g) of
subsection (1), on all or any of the matters specified in
subsection (1), and on any other matter that may be referred
to the Institution, from time to time, by the Minister.
4. (1) The Institute shall have the power to do all such
acts as may be necessary for the discharge of any or all of its
functions specified in section 3 of this Act.
(2) The Institute without prejudice to the generality of
the powers conferred on it by subsection (1), may—
(a) assess and evaluate, from time to time, the standards
to be maintained in workplaces or working
environments and ad vise the Minister on the
legislative requirements relating to such standards,
and to provide advisory services to occupiers,
Powers of the
Institute.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
workers or any other persons, when requested to do
so, on all matters relating to occupational safety
and health and working environment;
(b) levy and charge a fee for services rendered or
facilities or equipments provided by the Institute
to any other institution, organization or any other
person;
(c) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any
movable or immovable property for the purpose of
discharging the functions of the Institute; and
(d) to enter into and execute, by the Institute or any
other officer or agent authorized in that behalf by
the Institute, all such contracts or agreements as
may be necessary for the discharge of the functions
of the Institute.
PAR T II
T
HE  GOVERNING  COUNCIL  OF  THE  INSTITUTE
5. (1) The Institute shall have a Governing Council
(hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) in which the powers
and duties of the Institute shall subject to the provisions of
this Act, be vested in.
(2) The Council shall consist of—
(a) seven members appointed by the Minister
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed
members”)—
(i) two of whom shall be representatives of
employer’s organizations;
(ii)two of whom are representing the workers’
organization;
(iii)three persons distinguished in the fields of
occupational safety and health and who shall
be members of any Institution established
Constitution of
the Governing
Council.

<!-- page 6 -->

5 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
under the provisions of an Act, the functions
of which include safety or health.
(b) the following ex-officio members:—
(i) the person for the time being holding office
as the Secretary to the Minister of the
Ministry in charge of the subject of Labour,
who shall be the Chairman of the Council;
(ii)the person for the time being holding office
as the Commissioner-General of Labur, who
shall be the V ice Chairman of the Council;
(iii)the person for the time being holding office
as the Commissioner of Labour (Industrial
Safety);
(iv) the person for the time being holding office
as the Commissioner of Labour
(Occupational Hygiene);
(v) one member, being an officer not below the
rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary
nominated by the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance;
(vi) one member, being an officer not below the
rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary
nominated by the Minister in charge of the
subject of Health;
(vii) one member, being an officer not below the
rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary
nominated by the Minister in charge of the
subject of Industries;
(viii)one member, being an officer not below the
rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary
nominated by the Minister in charge of the
subject of Ag riculture; and

<!-- page 7 -->

6  National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(ix) the person for the time being holding office
as the Director-General of the Institute.
6.  There shall be a Secretary to the Council who shall
keep and maintain records of the Council. The Council shall
appoint a Director of the Institute as the Secretary.
7. (1) Every appointed member of the Council shall,
unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a term of three years from the date of
his appointment and unless he has been removed from office
shall be eligible for reappointment.
(2) An y appointed member may, at any time resign from
office by a letter addressed to that effect to the Minister.
Such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by
the Minister, in writing.
(3) Where an appointed member is temporarily unable to
discharge the functions of his office by reason of ill health,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other reason, the Minister
may appoint another person to act in his place.
(4) T he Minister, in consultation with the relevant
Minister in charge of the subject, when required, may, if he
thinks it expedient to do so, remove from office, any
appointed member for reasons assigned therefor, and
thereupon such member shall deemed to have vacated his
office.
(5) In the event of vacation of office, resignation or
remo val of any member, the Minister may appoint a suitable
person to act in his place. An y member so appointed shall
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.
8. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as an appointed member of the Council—
(1) if he is or becomes a Member of Parliament,
Provincial Council or any local authority; or
The term of
office of the
members of the
Council.
Disqualification
for membership
of Council.
Secretary to the
Council.

<!-- page 8 -->

7 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(2) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, found or declared to be of unsound
mind; or
(3) is a person who, having being declared an insolvent,
or a bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or
in another country, is an undischarged  insolvent or
bankrupt; or
(4)  if he is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any court of law in Sri
Lanka or in any other country.
9. (1) The Chairman of the Council shall summon a
meeting of the Council at least once in every three months.
(2) The Chairman shall summon a special meeting of the
Council within fourteen days after being requested in writing
to do so by seven members of the Council and shall specify
in such notice the business to be dealt with at such meeting.
(3) The Chairman shall give at least seven days notice in
writing of every meeting of the Council to each of the
members and shall specify in such notice the business to be
dealt with at such meeting.
(4) The Chairman or in his absence the V ice-Chairman
shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
(5) The quorum at any meeting of the Council shall be
seven members.
(6) All questions for decision by the Council shall be
decided by a vote of majority of members present and voting.
In case of an equality of votes, the presiding officer shall
have a casting vote.
(7) The proceedings at every meeting of the Council shall
be recorded.
(8) Subject to the provisions herein, the Council may
make rules determining the procedure to be followed at
meetings of the Council.
Meetings.

<!-- page 9 -->

8  National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(9) No act, decision or proceedings of the Board shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason of the existence of any
vacancy in the Council or any defect in the appointment or
nomination of election of a member thereof.
10. (1) There shall be appointed by the Council a person
to be the Director-General of the Institute (hereinafter
referred to as the “Director- General”) who possesses
sufficient knowledge and at least ten years experience in the
practice of occupational safety and health.
(2) The Director-General shall be a full time officer of the
Institute and shall subject to the direction of the Council, be
responsible for the implementation of the decisions of the
Council and shall discharge such other duties as may be
assigned to him.
(3) T he Council may, for reasons assigned therefor,
remove from office the Director-General appointed under
subsection (1).
11. There shall be appointed by the Council such number
of persons to be Directors of the Institute, as shall be necessary
for the efficient administration of the Institute. The persons
so appointed shall possess seven years experience in a
position with similar function as such Director and possess
sufficient knowledge as is relevant to such position.
12. (1) The Institute may appoint to the staff of the
Institute such officers and servants as it may deem necessary
for the efficient exercise, perform and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act.
(2) The Institute may subject to the other provisions of
this Act—
(a) exercise disciplinary control of officers and servants
of the Institute;
Director-General
of the Institute.
Directors of the
Institute.
Appointment of
staff.

<!-- page 10 -->

9 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(b) fix the wages, salaries or other remuneration of the
staff; and
(c) determine the terms and conditions of service of
the officers and servants of the Institute.
13. (1) At the request of the C ouncil, any officer in the
public service may with the consent of that officer and the
Chairman of the public Service Commission, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Institute for such period as may
be determined by the Council or, with like consent, be
permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the N ational Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall m utatis mutandis
apply to, and in relation to, such officer.
(3) Where any officer in public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the N ational Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, m utatis mutandis
apply to, and in relation to such officer.
(4) Where the Institute employs an person who has
entered into a contract with Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specific period, any
period of service to the Institute by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of that person under such
contract.
(5) At the request of the Council, a member of the Local
Go vernment Service or any officer of any Local A uthority
ma y with the consent of that member, officer or employee be
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute for such
period as may be determined by the Institute, or with like
Appointment of
Public officers
to the Institute.

<!-- page 11 -->

10  National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
consent be permanently appointed to such staff on such terms
and conditions including those relating to pension or
provident fund rights as may be agreed upon by the Institute
and the Local Government Service Ad visory Board or the
Local A uthority, as the case may be.
(6) Where a person is temporarily appointed to the staff
of the Institute under subsection (5) of this section, that
person shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as
any other member of the staff.
14. (1) The Director-General may with the approval of
the Council, and whenever he considers it necessary to do
so, delegate in writing to any officer of the Institute any
power of function conferred or assigned to him under this
Act and such officer shall exercise and discharge any power
or function subject to the direction and control of the
Director-General.
(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation, the Institute
may continue to exercise or perform or discharge any such
pow er, duty or function.
15. The Director-General may by notice in writing
require any occupier or head of Institution in Government
or private sector to furnish to the Institute, within such time
as may be specified in that notice, all such information
relating to the functions of the Institution concerning
occupational safety and health within the purview of such
Institution to enable to exercise and discharge of his powers
and functions of the Institute under this Act.
PAR T III
FUND  AND  THE  FINANCES  OF  THE  INSTITUTE
16. (1) The Institute shall have its own fund (hereinafter
referred to as the “Fund”).
Delegation of
powers.
Collection of
Information.
Fund of the
Institute.

<!-- page 12 -->

11 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) all sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament for the use of the Institute and
any funds provided to the Institute by the
Government by way of grant, loan or otherwise;
(b) the proceeds of any cess levied and collected
under this Act;
(c) all sums that may be received by the Institute by
way of fees and charges;
(d) all sums that may be received by the Institute as
income from an y investments made b y the
Institute;
(e) all sums that may be received by the Institute in
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions; and
(f) all sums as may be received by the Institute by
way of loans, donations, gifts or grants from any
source whatsoever whether from Sri Lanka or
outside Sri Lanka.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund—
(a) the remuneration payable to the members of the
Governing Council as may be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance;
(b) the salaries, allowances and such other fees or
payments payable to lecturers, consultants, experts,
officers, servants and employees of the Institute;
and
(c) all sums as are required to defray any expenditure
incurred by the Institute in the exercise, performance
and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act.

<!-- page 13 -->

12  National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
17. (1) The financial year of the Institute shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Institute shall cause to be prepared in respect
of each financial year a statement of receipts and payments,
a statement of income and expenditure, a statement of
assets and liabilities and a statement of investments showing
the face value, purchase price and market value of each
of the investments. A cop y of each of the statements
prepared under this subsection shall be transmitted to the
Minister before the thirtieth day of September of the
succeeding year.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in relation to the audit of accounts of the
Institute.
18. The Institute shall prepare an annual report of the
work of the Institute and forward such report before the lapse
of the year succeeding the year to which such report relates,
to the Minister who shall table such report in Parliament.
PAR T IV
G ENERAL
19. The Institute may make rules in respect of the
administration of the affairs of the Institute and in relation
to its officers and servants, including their appointments,
promotions, remuneration, disciplinary control and of grant
of leave to them. Every such rule shall be published in the
Gazette.
20. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
matters which are required to be prescribed or in respect of
which regulations are authorized to be made or where it is
necessary for giving effect to the principles of this Act.
Financial year
and audit of
accounts.
Report to be
tabled in
Parliament.
Rules of the
Institute.
Power to make
regulations.

<!-- page 14 -->

13 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1), shall be
published in the G azette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation shall, as soon as practicable, after its
publication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament
for approval. A ny regulation which is not so approved shall
be deemed to be rescinded from the date of its disapproval
but without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
(4) The Notification of the date on which any regulation
is so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
21. The seal of the Institute shall be in the custody of
such person as the Council may decide from time to time
and may be altered in such manner as may be determined by
the Council. It shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document except in the presence of two members of the
Institute both of whom shall sign the instrument or document
in token of their presence. The Council shall maintain a
register of all documents to which the seal of the Institute is
affixed.
22. It shall be lawful for the Director-General or an
officer or agent authorized in that behalf by the
Director-General to enter any work place at all reasonable
hours and to do all such acts as may be required to perform
all or any of the functions and duties of the Institute. Every
officer or agent so authorized shall be issued with such a
certificate of appointment, or authorization as may be
prescribed, and, when visiting any workplace or premises in
order to perform any function or act under this Act, shall if so
required produce such certificate or authority to the occupier
or to the person holding responsibility of the workplace or
premises.
Seal of the
Institute.
Power of entry
and inspection.

<!-- page 15 -->

14  National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
23. Where any immovable property is required to be
acquired for any specific purpose of the Institute and the
Minister by order published in the Gazette approves of the
proposed acquisition for that purpose, that property shall be
deemed to be required for a public purpose and may
accordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act
(Chapter 420).
24. (1) An y expenses incurred by the Institute in any
suit or prosecution brought against the Institute, shall be
paid out of the Fund of the Institute and any costs paid to or
recovered by the Institute in any such suit or prosecution,
shall be credited to the Fund of the Institute.
(2) An y expenses incurred by any member of the Council
or any officer or servant of the Institute in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any Court in respect
of any act which is done or purported to be done by such
person under this Act or on the direction of the Council
shall, if the Court holds that such act was done in good faith,
be paid out of the Fund of the Institute, unless such expenses
are recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.
25. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
26. For the purposes of this Act unless the context
otherwise requires the “occupier” means any person who
manages or administers the affairs of the government or any
private establishment, institution, public corporation or
statutory body, factory or any industry and includes any
Authority to whom the function of management or
administration is delegated.
Expenses to be
paid out of Fund
of the Institute.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Acquisition of
immovable
property under
the Land
Acquisition Act.

<!-- page 16 -->

15 National Institute of Occupational
Safety and Health Act, No. 38 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.