

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2456
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"416 – 2024 foieïn¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'12'20
No. 2,416 –  FRiday, dEcEmbER, 20, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th January, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th december, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2453 - b 082637 - 5,403 (12/2024)
Note.–    (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2015 of 13.12.2024 was not published. 
 (ii) the List of Juror's in the year 2024 of the Jurisdiction areas of trincomalle district has been published in Part Vi of this 
Gazette in Sinhala, tamil & English languages.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2454
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2455
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2456
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Officers to Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service - 2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby called on the order of the Public Service commission for the open competitive Examination 
to be held for recruitment of suitable officers to fill the vacancies in Grade III posts under the Civil, Mechanical and 
Electrical categories of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service that exist in island-wide public institutions. the closing date for 
applications is 20.01.2025. 
applications must strictly be submitted online through the website www.slida.lk from 08:00 hrs on 20.12.2024 to 24:00 hrs 
on 20.01.2025. 
The number of posts in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Engineering Service to be filled by recruiting officers to the Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service under the open stream is 113, which will be distributed among the categories given in the table below. 
Category Number of Vacancies
civil 87
mechanical 20
Electrical 6
Total 113
1.0 method of Recruitment to the Service:
1.1. Only engineers who possess educational and professional qualifications in the relevant category will be recruited 
under the open stream. The effective date of appointment and the number of appointments shall be decided by 
the Public Service Commission. Public Service Commission reserves the authority to fill all the vacancies or a 
certain number of vacancies.
1.2 applicants will be called for an interview on the order of marks obtained at the written examination and 
appointments will be made after verification of qualifications at the interview.
2.0 Conditions of Recruitment :
2.1  Selected candidates shall be appointed to Grade III of Sri Lanka Engineering Service subjected to the general 
conditions governing the appointments in the Public Service and also subjected to the terms and conditions set 
out in the minute of Sri Lanka Engineering Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1836/6 dated 11.11.2013 and any revisions made or to be made hereafter to 
the aforesaid minute.
2.2  This post is permanent and pensionable. It is subjected to any policy decision made by the Government with 
regard to the pension scheme in future. Further, contributions must be made to the Widows and orphans/ 
Widowers and orphans Pension Scheme.
2.3  The officers appointed to this post shall be subjected to a probation period of three (03) years and they must pass 
the First Efficiency Bar Examination within the said three (03) years. 
2.4  The level of proficiency in other official language must be acquired within three (03) years as per the provisions 
in the Public Administration Circular 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and the consequent circulars. The officers who 
have joined the service in a medium other than an official language must acquire the proficiency in one of the 
official languages within the probation period.
2.5. This appointment shall be made subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government 
and any other departmental rules and regulations.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2457
2.6. appointees must be prepared to serve in any part of the island to which they are   posted.
2.7 Appointees shall be subjected to serving in both Public Service as well as  Provincial Public Service.
2.8. The appointments of the appointees who fail to assume duties of the post offered to them on the prescribed date 
and/ or reject or avoid the assumption of duties of a post or an area where he/she is appointed  are liable to be 
cancelled. 
3.0 Salary Scale :
3.1 the salary scale (monthly) SL-1-2016, Rs.47,615 – 10x 1,335 – 8x 1,630 – 17 x 2170 – 110,895/-is entitled to 
this post as per Public administration circular No. 03/2016. 
3.2 However, when an officer has possessed full professional qualifications (status of Chartered Engineer) at the time 
of appointment or possesses the full professional qualifications after recruitment the said officer shall be placed 
on the sixth (6th) salary step in Grade iii of the service.
4.0 Educational and Professional Qualifications :
4.1 Educational Qualifications :
 4.1.1 Shall have successfully completed and possessed the fulltime b.Sc. degree in Engineering (04 years) 
under a stream determined for recruitment from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission and the institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka  
or
 4.1.2 Shall have obtained a valid certificate by following a course and completing all studies and requirements 
in a stream on which recruitments are made and accepted as equivalent to the degree course mentioned in 
4.1.1 above by the University Grants commission and institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka (iESL).
4.2 Professional Qualifications :
 4.2.1 Shall have registered as an associate Engineer or a chartered Engineer under the relevant service category 
in the Engineering council Sri Lanka, established by the act, No. 04 of 2017, and obtained the associate 
membership or full membership (Status of chartered Engineer) of the institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka.
5.0 Age Limit :
5.1   the applicant shall be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
5.2   However, the maximum age limit in respect of an officer who has been confirmed in the public service or 
provincial public service and has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment as per the provisions of the 
Public Service commission circular No. 01/2020 shall be 45 years.
6.0 Physical fitness : 
6.1 Every candidate shall be physically fit in every aspect to perform the duties of the post and to serve in any part 
of Sri Lanka.
7.0 Other Qualifications :
7.1 applicants shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
7.2  applicants shall be of excellent moral character.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2458
7.3  The subjects indicated in the academic transcripts based on which the certificates relevant to the qualifications 
prescribed under Section 4 above are issued, shall be confirmed in every aspect to the requirements of categories 
to which recruitments are made.
7.4  No person ordained in any religious order shall become qualified to apply.
7.5  An officer who becomes eligible under No. 5.2 above shall have been confirmed in the service and have not 
been subjected to any disciplinary punishment as per the provisions of Public Service Commission Circular No. 
01/2020.
7.6  All the qualifications and conditions required for recruitment to the service shall have been satisfied in every 
aspect as at the closing date for applications.
8.0 Written Examination and the Interview : 
8.1 Written Examination :
 8.1.1 Written examination shall be conducted by the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration.
 8.1.2 Syllabus for Written Examination
  This examination shall be limited to a written aptitude test which carries 100 marks with the objective of 
testing the ability of the candidate on critical reasoning, analytical power and ability for decision making 
based on the knowledge obtained through the study of Engineering Science mentioned in 4 above. the 
examination paper shall consist of multiple choice questions and the duration of the question paper is 1 ½ 
hours. all the questions shall be answered.
8.2 Interview :
 8.2.1 applicants will be called for an interview on the basis of the marks obtained at the written examination.
 8.2.2 Physical fitness and the qualifications as per the Service Minutes of Sri Lanka Engineering Service shall 
be verified at the interview.
 8.2.3 marks shall not be given at the interview.
 8.2.4 interview shall be conducted by a board of interview appointed by the Public Service commission.
 8.2.5 Candidates must submit the relevant certificates and documents at the relevant interview and all the 
documents/ certificates must be valid in every aspect. Any document/certificate submitted subjected to the 
covering approval of the relevant authority shall not be valid.
 8.2.6 in instances where several candidates have secured same marks, action will be taken as per the following 
provisions of Public Service commission circular No. 01/2024.
  When filling vacancies in the order of merit of the candidates, if, at any point, the number of candidates with 
equal marks at the written examination exceeds the remainder of vacancies, Public Service commission 
may, if the exigencies of service require doing so, decide to conduct an additional selection process only 
for those candidates. The additional selection process will be composed of; 
i. a  written examination to assess the ability of the candidates, and
ii. a  competency-based interview.
the written examination will be conducted by an institute approved by the Public Service commission. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2459
  interview panel will be appointed by the commission.
  For further information about the structure and content of the selection process, prospective candidates 
may refer to the webpage below. 
  Home  à downloads à Procedures à Special Selection 
9.0 Conditions of the Examination
9.1 applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk , the official web site of the 
Sri Lanka institute of development administration. y ou should create a User account by visiting “Examination 
applications” on the Home Page of the website or directly through the link https://examinationportal.slida.lk/ . 
After creating a User Account in the above manner, you can fill out the application for the examination. Online 
applications should be filled out only in English.
 Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 08:00 hrs on 20.12.2024 up to 24:00 hrs on 
20.01.2025.
9.2 the examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil and English media. candidates may sit for the examination in 
one language of their preference. candidates must sit all the papers of this examination in one and the same 
language. candidates shall not be allowed to change the medium mentioned in the application.
9.3 the examination fee is Rs.1000.00. it must be paid on or before the closing date of applications at any branch 
of the Peoples’ bank located island wide in favour of “Secretary, ministry of Public administration, Provincial 
councils and Local Government. Name and National identity card number of the candidate should be written on 
the place provided for depositor’s Name and the identity card Number on the cash deposit slip.
Note:  Cash Deposit Slip should be filled as follows.
Name of the account Holder: Secretary, ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils and 
Local Government.  
Account Number; 310-1-001-1-9027430 
branch: bambalapitiya branch
Depositor’s Name; (Write Candidate’s Name)
depositor’s identity card Number: (Write candidate’s identity card Number) 
9.4   telephone Number 0115980236 at the Sri Lanka institute of development administration is available every 
working day from 20.12.2024 to 20.01.2025 from 08:00hrs to 16:15hrs for inquiries regarding any issues related 
to the process of submitting applications.
9.5 When filling out the application online, it is compulsory for the applicant to have an active email address and a 
mobile number. Once the perfected application is submitted online, a message confirming receipt of the same will 
be sent to that email address and the mobile number.   
 after the screening of applications is completed, you can download the admission card by logging into the user 
account created by you. You will be notified of the same by SMS.
9.6 it is compulsory for the applicants to get a printout of the admission card and get his/her signature on the admission 
card attested before appearing for the examination. applicants who are in the Public Service/ Provincial Public 
Service must get his/her signature attested by the respective Head of the department/ institution. other applicants 
must get their signature attested by a Principal of a Government school/ Retired Principal, Grama Niladhari of 
the division, Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney- at- Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer 
in the Armed Forces, an Officer of the Staff Grade holding a permanent post in the Public or Provincial Public 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2460
Service or a chief incumbent of a buddhist temple or chief Prelate or other clergy holding considerable position 
as the chief Priest of a religious place.  
9. 7 Under any circumstance, the examination fee shall not be refunded.
9.8  it is the responsibility of the applicant to keep the mobile number and email address mentioned in the application, 
the methods of contacting him/ her, active until recruitment is concluded. the ministry of Public administration, 
Provincial councils and Local Government shall not be responsible for any inconvenience caused due to any 
change in that mobile number and email address.
9.9 No candidate shall be permitted to enter the examination hall without the admission card. duly attested admission 
card must be produced to the supervisor at the examination hall. 
 N.b: The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications 
to sit for the examination. 
9.10 copy of the cash deposit slip issued upon paying the examination fee must be kept ready to produce to Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration when requested. the candidates who fail to produce any document 
when requested shall be subjected to suspension of his/her candidacy. 
9.11 the director General of the Sri Lanka institute of development administration reserves the power to conduct, 
postpone or cancel the examination on approval of the Public Service commission.
9.12 Candidates shall be subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute 
of development administration on conducting the examination and issuance of results. candidates are liable 
to be subjected to a punishment imposed by the Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
administration for breaching examination rules and regulations. 
9.13 Identity of the Candidates:
 candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. 
For this purpose one of the following documents shall be accepted. 
• National identity card
• a valid Passport
• a valid driving License 
 Further, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering the face and the ears so that their 
identity can be confirmed. Those who refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. moreover, the candidates should remain without covering the face and the ears from the moment they enter 
the examination hall until they leave there after the examination, enabling the officials to identify the candidates. 
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information:
if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the 
examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are false, or if he has 
willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service. in such dismissal, all the 
salaries and other allowances paid by the government shall be surcharged from the candidate.  
11.  This appointment shall be made subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishments 
code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and other departmental 
orders.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2461
12. a fter the appropriate date to issue the results is informed by the Secretary of the Public Service commission, the
director General of the Sri Lanka institute of development administration shall take action to send a result sheet to all
the applicants who have sat for the examination indicating the results they have obtained at the written examination.
13. Any matter which is not covered by the regulations in this notification shall be decided by the Secretary of the Ministry
of Public administration, Provincial councils and Local Government.
14.  in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
on the order of the Public Service commission,
S. Alokabandara,
Secretary,
 ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils and  
Local Government. 
ministry of Public administration, 
Provincial councils and Local Government, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
on the date of 11th december, 2024.
12-271
__________________________________
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION, hIGhER EDuCATION, AND vOCATIONAL  EDuCATION
Admission of 210 Student Teachers To National College of Education on Technology At Kuliyapitiya, To 
Follow Four-Year Pre-Service Bachelor Of Education  Degree Courses (English Medium) Based On 2023 
G.C.E. (A/L) Results – 2025
1.0 aPPL icatioNS are invited from the applicants who have acquired the requisite academic  qualifications and eligibility 
to follow four-year Pre-service bachelor of Education degree courses (English medium) at the National college of 
Education on technology at Kuliyapitiya.
1.1 Applicants who have passed the G.C.E. (A/L) examination relevant to the year 2023 with three main subjects 
specified under Section 4.0 in one sitting are eligible to apply for this course.
1.2 a ll the applicants should forward the application online in accordance with the instructions mentioned in chapter 
9.0 - ‘ instructions for applying’ of the Gazette notification.
1.3  a pplications should be forwarded from the date of publication of the gazette notification and it should be 
closed on 10.01.2025.
1.4 i t is the responsibility of the applicant to read and understand every detail provided in the Gazette notification 
under the courses she/he applies for, and complete the application accordingly. Requests relating to applications 
which are not submitted correctly within the relevant period will not be considered later.
1.5  b efore completing the application, special attention should be paid to the number of applicants to be recruited 
for each course according to the vacancies available in each dstrict based on the G. c. E. (a/L) results of 2023 
as mentioned in the table 12.0 in the Gazette notification. 
Part I : Section (IIA)(E) | part II
T -10 (SS)/ 1st Reading (Pages 9-23)  [17.12.2024]

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2462
2.0 Eligibility :
Every applicant  –
2.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
2.2 Should possess an excellent character and good physical and mental health,
2.3 Should be not more than 25 years of age as on 01.01.2024,
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications:
3.1 It is compulsory that all the applicants should have completed the basic educational qualifications in 3.2 and  
3.3 mentioned below for applying for the admission to National colleges of Education on technology.
3.2 Should have passed in three (03) main subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination relevant to the 
y ear 2023.
3.3 Applicants must have passed six subjects, including the medium language (Sinhala/Tamil) and Mathematics, 
at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination, with three of these subjects passed with Credit Passes. If these qualifications 
are completed in two sittings, the applicant must have passed five subjects, including the medium language 
(Sinhala/Tamil) or Mathematics, with three credit passes in the first attempt.  Also, it is compulsory to have 
obtained at least a simple pass in the English language or English literature subject in the G.C.E.(O/L) 
examination.
3.4 The Specific qualifications required for each course are specified under the relevant course.
 Note:
(a) Following subjects are considered under the G.C.E. (O/L) syllabus:
        
          Core (Main) Subjects:
  (i) Religion 
 (ii) Sinhala Language and Literature / tamil Language and Literature
(iii) English Language 
(iv) mathematics 
 (v) History 
(vi) Science
Category Subjects:
(i)   Any subject out of the first category of subjects 
(ii) Any subject out of the second category 
(iii) Any subject out of the third category.
3.5 Effective date of all the Educational and other Certificates should be on or before the closing date 
(10/01/2025) of applying.
4.0 Required qualifications for each course:
it is important that your special attention is paid to the following points: 
 Note:
(a) Applicants must apply with a clear understanding of the qualifications required for each course as stated in the 
Gazette notification.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2463
(b) Sections 3.2 and 3.3 above specify the minimum basic educational qualifications that must be completed at the 
G.C.E. (A/L) and (O/L) examinations to apply for college admission. In addition, specific subject proficiencies 
required for each course are mentioned under each respective course.
(c)  applicants will be called for an interview based on the order of their Z-scores obtained at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
examination, according to the procedure outlined in the Gazette notification.
(d)  an equal number of applicants to the number of available vacancies will be called for an interview to verify 
certificates and eligibility. The applicants will be selected by a computerized program from the information in 
the online data system. The final number of eligible applicants will be chosen based on their qualifications.
(e) The educational qualifications and other specific qualifications required for admission to each course conducted 
at the National college of Education on technology are provided below.
4.1.
4.1.1 Passing the three subjects, including one approved subject from Engineering Technology, Science for 
Technology, or a subject approved as the third subject for the Technology stream, in one sitting at the 
G.c.E. (a/L) examination relevant to the year 2023,
or
4.1.2 Passing the three subjects of Combined Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry in one sitting under the 
Physical Science stream at the G.c.E. (a/L) examination relevant to the year 2023,
or
4.1.3 Passing three subjects, including Combined Mathematics or Advanced Mathematics and Physics, in 
one sitting under any other subject stream at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination relevant to the year 2023,
and
4.1.4 Passing the G.C.E. (O/L) examination with the qualifications related to Section 3.3 of 3.0.
• Selection Priorities
in this course, 60% of the total number of applicants who have applied under 4.1.1, 30% of the applicants 
who have applied under 4.1.2. and 10% of the applicants who have applied under 4.1.3 are selected in 
the order of qualifications. If the required number of qualified applicants is not found under a particular 
subject stream, the remaining number of vacancies will be filled in accordance with the priority order of 
qualifications in 4.1.1, 4.1.2 and 4.1.3 respectively.
4.2. 
4.2.1 Passing the three subjects, including one approved subject from Bio systems Technology, Science for 
Technology, or a subject approved as the third subject for the Technology stream, in one sitting at the 
G.c.E. (a/L) examination relevant to the year 2023,
or
4.2.2. Passing the three subjects of Biology, Physics/Agriculture, and Chemistry in one sitting under the 
biological Science stream at the G.c.E. (a/L) examination relevant to the year 2023,
or
Course No. 01 – Engineering Technology
Course No. 02 – bio system technology

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2464
4.2.3. Passing three subjects, including two from Biology, Physics, Agriculture, and Chemistry, in one sitting 
under any other subject stream at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination relevant to the year 2023,
and
4.2.4. Passing the G.C.E. (O/L) examination with the qualifications related to Section 3.3 of 3.0.
• Selection Priorities:
in this course, 60% of the total number of applicants who have applied under 4.2.1, 30% of the 
applicants who have applied under 4.2.2. and 10% of the applicants who have applied under 4.2.3 are 
selected in the order of qualifications. If the required number of qualified applicants is not found under 
a particular subject stream, the remaining number of vacancies will be filled in accordance with the 
priority order of qualifications in 4.2.1, 4.2.2 and 4.2.3 respectively.
4.3
4.3.1 Passing three subjects, including Information and Communication Technology as a main subject and any 
two other subjects, in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination relevant to the year 2023,
and
4.3.2 Passing the G.C.E. (O/L) examination with the qualifications related to Section 3.3 of 3.0.
Note:
Applicants will be called for an interview, prioritizing their proficiency and marks in Information and Communication 
technology obtained at the G.c.E. (a/L) examination.
• Selection Priorities:
 (i) among the applicants called for the interview, those who obtained an a grade in information and 
communication technology at the G.c.E. advanced Level will be selected based on the marks received in the 
subject.
(ii)  For any remaining vacancies, applicants who obtained a b grade in information and communication 
Technology at the G.C.E. Advanced Level will be selected based on the marks received in the subject.
(iii) For any remaining vacancies after the selection under point (ii), applicants who obtained a c grade in 
information and communication technology at the G.c.E. advanced Level will be selected based on the 
marks received in the subject.
5.0. Procedure for Selection of Student teachers for year 2025:
5.1.  basis of Selection:
5.1.1. the number of student teachers to be admitted to the college from the applicants who have passed the 
G. c. E. (a/L) Examination relevant to the year 2023 has been decided by considering the teacher cadre 
requirements based on the number of vacancies created through the retirement of teachers in the year 
2028, the existing number of  vacancies at present in the school system and the necessity of making 
subject variations in the under-privileged areas and calculating the teacher requirement for each subject 
and matching that number to the available facilities for each subject in 2025 at the National Colleges of 
Education on t echnology.
Course No. 03 – Information Communication 
Technology

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2465
5.1.1.1. The major determinant for the number recruited for each subject is the number that can be facilitated 
by the National Colleges of Education on Technology for each subject. 
5.1.1.2. accordingly, the recruitment in 2025 will be made as mentioned below for the candidates who 
passed the G.c.E. (a/L) relevant to the y ear 2023.
 (i) Out of the entire number of vacancies, 50% will be filled on national basis and the remaining 
50% on district basis.  When allocating vacancies for national basis and district basis, priority is 
given to national basis. 
 (ii) the number mentioned in the Gazette to be recruited from each district for each course   will 
be recruited following the Note 4.0 and the methods indicated under the relevant courses 
considering the order of Z score the candidates have obtained in each district and other 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification. 
 (iii) National level vacancies shall be filled after filling district level vacancies.  There, selections 
will be made from among the remaining candidates, according to the highest Z-score order at 
national level, the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification and the special notes 
mentioned in 4.0 for respective courses.
 (iv) If there are further vacancies at district level after filling the vacancies, candidates who have 
been selected at national level will be selected from that district based on their qualifications and 
choice. If there are further vacancies at national level, such vacancies will be filled at national 
level.
5.1.2 When the selections are made on the basis of Z-score, if one student should be selected out of several students 
who have obtained the same Z-score in the relevant district / considering   the performance of sports marks 
if one student should be selected out of several who have scored the same mark, the results obtained in six 
(06) core (main) subjects indicated in 3.5 of 3.0 at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at the first sitting will be 
considered.
 
accordingly, marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a distinction pass, 03 marks for a very good pass, 02 
marks for a credit pass, and 01 mark for an ordinary pass at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination results and the 
available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total marks obtained.
5.1.3. When the selections are made on district basis, if the required number of qualified applicants for a particular 
course is not available in the total database, the provincial performance of the applicants of the relevant 
province to which the particular district belongs to will be considered. if there are not enough candidates in 
the province to which the particular district belongs to, the national level performance of the candidates will 
be considered.
 5.2 Determination of Permanent Residence:
5.2.1. district/Province of permanent residence of applicants will be determined as mentioned below :
5.2.1.1 in the district basis recruitment, the applicant’s district should be the district in which the applicant 
resided in the year wherein she/he appeared for the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in the first sitting and 
the two years immediately preceding that.
5.2.1.2.  it is emphasized that if the candidate has changed his/her district of permanent residence at present/
has resided temporarily in the district for personal convenience/it is not the district of permanent 
residence of the candidate though it is the district where the candidate appeared for the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination at the first sitting or after that, the particular district will not be considered as the 
district of permanent residence.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2466
5.2.1.3. the province in which the applicant permanently resided in the year he/ she appeared for the G.c.E. 
(A/L) Examination in the first sitting and the two years immediately preceding that will be considered 
as the province of the applicant in determining the provincial order of merit.
5.2.1.4. When considering national or all-island skills order, permanent residence is not considered.
5.2.2. Every applicant should confirm his/her permanent residence according to the procedure  mentioned below :
Note:
No applicant is required to apply for copies of electoral registers from relevant institutions or attach 
them to applications because data of electoral registers will be checked online with the approval of the 
Elections Commission during the interview. 
I.  Applicants should confirm their permanent residence by the data of electoral registers as per the basis 
of recruitment.
ii.  in case of the years of which the applicant was unable to register in the electoral register due to being 
underage, permanent residence of the applicant in such years should be confirmed by the data of 
electoral registers in which the names of the applicant’s parents appear.
iii.  applicants who resided with a guardian other than the parents during the concerned period of time 
should confirm permanent residence at the interview by including such guardianship with the period of 
time, under the column ‘Other Information’ in the ‘Certificate of Residence and Character’ issued by 
the Grama Niladhari (dS - 04). in case of the years of which the applicant was unable to register in the 
electoral register, permanent residence of the applicant in such years should be confirmed by the data of 
electoral registers in which the names of the applicant’s guardian appear.
IV .  In case that the applicant fails to confirm their permanent residence of  three  years or several of the 
years by the data of electoral registers due to the candidate being unable to register in the electorate, 
acceptable reasons should be provided for being unable to register in the electorate at the interview in 
the ‘Certificate of Residence and Character’ issued by the Grama Niladhari (DS - 04) under the column 
‘other information’ with the signature of the Grama Niladhari of the division where the applicant’s 
permanent residence is/was during the period concerned.
V .  In case that the applicant is able to confirm permanent residence only of one or two years through data 
of electoral registers due to non-registration, permanent residence of the remaining year/years should be  
confirmed by  other  acceptable documents (e.g. the certificate issued by  the Grama Niladhari, address 
in the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons).
Vi.  if for some reason the applicant’s registration had been for one year only instead of three (03) years, 
priority will be given to the district wherein the applicant’s vote had been registered regardless of the 
district wherein the applicant’s parents’ votes / guardian’s vote had been registered for the remaining 
period.
6.0 Other matters Related to Selection:
6.1. 
Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm 
their eligibility for the relevant course at the interview. the opportunity of   those who fail to appear in the 
interview without informing on the due date will be filled with other applicants from the same district, based 
on the order of qualifications. Absentees will not be reconsidered.
6.2. It is mandatory to submit the originals of all certificates at the interview. Those who fail to do so will not be 
considered for selection.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2467
6.3. Mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the expected level in the c ourse and to 
enter the teaching Profession will be checked by the interview board at the first interview following the 
criteria given by the ministry of Education. the i nterview board will submit their recommendations on whether 
the applicant possesses the required mental and physical fitness to follow the course and enter the Teaching 
Profession.
6.4 In accordance with paragraph 6.3 the applicants who have completed the qualifications under recruitment criteria 
and with eligibility as well, will be notified through registered post. Accuracy of the details submitted in the 
application will be rechecked prior to the registration of such applicants and only the candidates who are able to 
reconfirm their eligibility will be recruited to the relevant course at the particular National College of Education. 
those who fail to register at the relevant National college of Education within ten (10) working days of the due date 
will be deprived of the opportunity for admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled from the applicants 
in the database after calling for an interview according to the performance order, subjected to the provisions 
stipulated in the recruitment procedure.
6.4.1. Hence, it is emphasized that there is no opportunity to consider appeals of the applicants who are not 
registered during the stipulated period of time.
 6.4.1.1. Specific situations for which an interview board is unable to submit recommendations under 
6.3 or 6.4 will be directed to a 
s pecial b oard at the ministry of Education.  the report of the 
special board will be forwarded to the colleges of Education board / Secretary to the ministry 
of Education for the final decision.
6.5. applicants who are selected to register in the National college of Education on technology after appearing for the 
first and second interviews are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to the College 
of Education for the certification of their health condition.
6.6. any applicant can apply for three courses according to order of their preference. Nevertheless, they will be called 
for interviews only for the courses they fulfill the required qualifications and selection will be made according to 
the order of performance.  A candidate who is qualified for more than one course will be selected for one course 
giving priority to the applicant’s order of preference for the courses. 
6.7   after admission to any course in the National college of Education  on technology, permission will not be 
granted to change the National college of Education, the course or the medium of instruction due to personal 
reasons. 
6.8  the authority of the final decision regarding cancellation of a course for which a required number of teacher 
vacancies does not exist, determination of the number of student teachers recruited and placement of courses 
in National colleges of Education is held by 
colleges of Education board / Secretary to the ministry of 
Education.
7.0 Persons who are not eligible for applying or admission to courses.
7.1. those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government schools, Government aided schools, 
Government Registered Pirivenas or other approved institutions.
7.2. those who have been selected for a teaching appointment in a Government school.
7.3. those who are following or who have followed a course in a National college of Education or those 
who have deserted a course in a National college of Education.
7.4. those who are/were registered/ are following/followed a degree course under the privileges of free 
education provided by the state, those who are registered as an internal student in a State University or 
State University institute where the G.c.E. (a/L) is the entry requirement. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2468
Note:
Registration through the University Grants commission's online system to follow a university course also makes one 
ineligible to apply to the National college of Education for t echnology.
7.5. Student teachers whose registration in a National college of Education has been terminated on disciplinary 
grounds / any other reasons.
7.6. applicants who have registered their marriage or are divorced.
8.0 Conditions applicable for the course:
8.1. duration of a course is four years. this period consists of a three-year residential institutional training in the 
National college of Education on t echnology and a one-year internship training attached to a school and a technical 
institution. attendance of a student teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/ her to sit for the External 
Final Examination at the end of the second year.
8.2. Every student teacher should pass the internal continuous assessments, the internal tests held in the first year, 
second year and third year and the External Final Examination. 
8.3. during the period of three-year residential course of study, a student teacher will be provided with meals and 
lodging facilities to the value of Rs. 8,000/- per month for ten (10) months in a year. during the internship year, a 
monthly allowance of Rs. 8,000/- will be paid for ten (10) months. other expenses for personal requirements should 
be borne by the student teacher.
8.4. Student teachers who register in the National college of Education on t echnology should sign in a bond and an 
agreement with the Secretary to the ministry of Education to the value of (Rs. 10,000,000.00) for the expenditure 
made by the government for the course of the applicant and the provision of other infrastructure facilities. if the 
candidates give up the course within sixty (60) calendar days of registration at the National college of Education 
on t echnology, they are allowed to do so after paying the sum spent by the government for the student teacher.  if 
the candidates give up the course after sixty (60) calendar days of registration at the National college of Education 
on t echnology, they should pay the whole sum mentioned in the bond and the agreement (Rs.1,000, 000.00). a  
candidate who does not attend the course work for a period not less than a month without any proper notice, they 
will be considered deserters and be dismissed from the course after the whole sum mentioned in the bond 
and the agreement (Rs.1,000,000. 00) is charged. 
Student teachers who do not accept the appointment to a government school after the successful completion of the 
course, should pay the whole sum mentioned in the bond and the agreement (Rs.1,000, 000. 00) to the government. 
Those who do not serve the government for five (05) years after the successful completion of the course should pay 
the sum for the remaining period (counted in months) to complete five years. It is calculated as below:
Rs. 1,000, 000. 00   × remaining number of months to be completed 
        60
8.4.1. if a candidate gives up the course due to special medical reasons during the course period, the following 
documentary evidence should be submitted to prove the actual condition of the ailment.
• Acceptable records of diagnosis, medical checkups and prescriptions.
• The 
letter of a government medical officer confirming the inability of the student teacher to 
continue the course of study any longer.
management board of the National college of Education on t echnology will forward their observations 
and recommendations after checking the above documents. considering the above recommendations,  

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2469
a  board consisting of officials of the Ministry of Education and  after obtaining recommendations from 
a  medical officer or a board of medical officers serving in a government hospital as directed by the 
ministry of Health will submit their recommendations for the  approval  of  the  colleges of  Education  
board / Secretary to the ministry of Education, Higher Education, and V ocational Education. With this 
approval, the student teacher will be permitted to resign from the course with no imbursement.
8.4.2. No student teacher is permitted to go abroad during the course or the period till permanent appointment is 
given, except when duly resigned from the course.
8.5. if a student teacher’s registration happened to be terminated on disciplinary grounds or being found out that he/she 
has submitted false information or for concealing true information in relation to Para. 7.0 above under ‘Persons 
who are not eligible for applying or admission’, the student teacher will be surcharged the whole amount incurred 
for him/her in the bond (Rs.1,000, 000.00).
8.6. during the period of course a student teacher will not be allowed to follow a course mentioned in section 7.4. if it is 
found out that a student teacher is following such a course, the sum of the bond and agreement (Rs.1,000, 000.00) 
incurred for him/her will be surcharged and the student teacher’s registration will be terminated.
8.7. it is mandatory that the applicants who are following / have registered for a diploma/higher diploma/professional 
course in any other state higher education institution under the qualifications and conditions mentioned in Para 
7.4 of the Gazette  notification,  should resign from such courses and submit the relevant documents to prove 
their resignation to the National college of Education on technology on the day of registration, if selected to the 
National college of Education on technology. applicants who fail to do so will not be registered in the National 
college of Education for technology.
8.8. if the student teacher registers marriage during the period of the course or is found to have registered the marriage 
/ divorced before the registration at the National college of Education on technology / at the time of applying for 
the course, the studentship will be terminated. those who get divorced giving various reasons after being found to 
be married too will not be given studentship.
8.9. if a student teacher fails to exhibit the progress expected in his/her general conduct, attendance, enthusiasm and 
studies during the course of study (inclusive of co-curricular activities), their studentship will be terminated.  
Likewise, studentship of those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the first year of 
academic training will be terminated. the decision of the colleges of Education board/ Secretary to the ministry 
of Education, Higher Education, and V ocational Education shall be final regarding these matters.
8.10. If any complaints are received in relation to the physical and mental fitness of the student teacher either from 
the President of the college during the course or from the Principal of the school during the internship period, 
the student teacher will be referred to a special interview. The final decision will be taken after the submission 
of that report to the colleges of Education board/ Secretary to the ministry of Education, Higher Education, and 
V ocational Education.
8.11. if the student teacher is proved  to have engaged him/herself in any action against the code of conduct of National 
colleges of Education for technology, National colleges of Education board/Secretary to the ministry of Education, 
Higher Education, and V ocational Education holds the authority of taking disciplinary action such as suspension 
from academic classes / extension of the course / termination of studentship / any other suitable punishment under 
the recommendation of the disciplinary board of the National college of Education on technology.
8.12. Student teachers are not permitted to follow any other course during weekdays or at weekends outside the college 
under any circumstances. 
8.13.  if a teacher holding a degree of bachelor of Educaion, for any reason, resigns from service or resigns and goes 
abroad within the first five years of service, they should pay the amount for the remaining time (calculated in 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2470
months) out of the whole amount mentioned in the bond and the agreement (Rs. 1,000,000. 00) to the government. 
it is calculated as below:
                              Rs. 1,000, 000. 00 × remaining number of months to be completed.
                                60 
NOTE:
• Those who resign during the first five years of service as mentioned in 8.13 will not be permitted to re-enter 
the teaching profession as a holder of the degree of bachelor of Education.
• Holder of the degree of bachelor of Education is not eligible to claim for the detailed certificate if they have 
not completed five (05) years active service in a government school. 
• Holders of the Degree of Bachelor of Education who have not completed the first five (05) year active service 
and are within the probation period are granted no pay leave to go abroad only for study purposes under the 
provisions of circular 24/2017 of the Secretary to the ministry of Education, the Gazette notification, the bond, 
the agreement, rules and regulations of the Establishment code and the laws in function at the time.
• Holders of the degree of Bachelor of Education who have not completed the first five (05) year active service, 
but have been confirmed in the service are granted no pay leave to go abroad for study / job purposes under the 
provisions of circular 24/2017 of the Secretary to the ministry of Education, the Gazette notification, the bond, 
the agreement,  the 16
th  clause of chapter Xii of the Establishment code and the laws in function at the time.
8.14. degree of bachelor of Education will be awarded to the student teachers who will successfully complete the 
course. course work and personality development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be 
continuously assessed during the period of course and this assessment will form a component of the final 
evaluation in awarding the degree of bachelor of Education.
8.15. the student teachers who successfully complete the degree of bachelor of Education will be given appointments 
as teachers in the government schools. they should agree to serve in any part of the country if no vacancies exist 
in the relevant district / province in placement even if they are recruited on district / provincial / national 
basis. colleges of Education board / Secretary to the ministry of Education, Higher Education, and V ocational 
Education holds the authority of placement subjected to the approval of Education Service Committee of the 
Public Service commission.
8.15.1. the applicants who are called for interviews for recruitment should appear for the interview only if they 
agree to the above conditions.
8.15.2. Applicants who follow the course under the above conditions should mandatorily teach the same  subject 
that they are studying. in addition to that, after completing the degree of bachelor of education, the 
applicants who are recruited on district/provincial/ national basis should sign a bond and an agreement 
with the Secretary to the Ministry of Education stating that they will serve for a minimum period of five (05) 
years from the date of first appointment as a condition of service in the relevant district / province wherein 
they get their first appointment based on their district / province of permanent residence or the district named 
under national basis or in any district / province where the first appointment is given. 
8.16. Any improper influence made to the relevant officials by the applicant himself/ herself or any  other party related 
to the applicant during the recruitment procedure will  be considered a disqualification in recruitment.
8.17. All educational and other qualifications in relation to the course applied by the applicant should have been 
completed on or before the closing date (1 0/01/2025) of applying.
8.18. In case of insufficient number of qualified applicants according to the order of performance in district/provincial/ 
national level for a particular course in the National college of Education on technology to be recruited in the 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2471
relevant medium from the particular district, the remaining number of vacancies will be filled with the qualified 
applicants under national basis, giving priority to the courses that have the highest teacher requirement in the 
education system among the other courses that are conducted in the National college of Education on technology. 
9.0 Instructions for Applying:
 • Applications should be submitted with a good understanding of the number recruited for each course on district 
basis as mentioned in the table 14.0 of the Gazette notification.
9.1. Special Note;
9.1.1. it is compulsory that every applicant submits his or her application through the online system. 
Note – Applications should not be forwarded through registered post. 
9.1.2. online submission of application should be made only in the medium of English. accordingly, applicants 
should log into the official website of the Ministry of Education to access the relevant online system as 
mentioned below and apply following the steps given. 
  https://ncoe.moe.gov.lk/Ncoet echapp/
9.2. the applicant is entirely responsible to provide accurate details after reading the instructions in the Gazette 
notification carefully. Especially, the requests to amend the information related to the applied course or other 
information will not be accepted.
9.3 Every applicant can apply for two (02) courses, paying special attention to conditions, qualifications and the number 
of vacancies mentioned in the Gazette notification.
9.4 Numbers relevant for the districts under Para 5.2.1 of 5.2 – ‘determining the permanent residence’ of the Gazette  
notification are mentioned below.
 
• the number of the permanent resident district of the applicant should be mentioned accurately paying special 
attention to those district numbers.
District Number
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Kilinochchi 11
mannar 12
Vavuniya 13

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2472
District Number
mulaitive 14
batticaloa 15
ampara 16
t rincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttlam 19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
badulla 22
monaragala 23
Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
9.5 it is advisable for the applicants to create a personal email address before applying if the applicants do not 
have a personal email address by the time they submit their applications through the online system.
9.6.  ministry of Education will bear no responsibility about the inconveniences faced by    the applicants who apply 
without the required qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification for the courses.
9.7.   Every applicant is provided with the facility to obtain a printed copy of the relevant application after applying 
through the online system. this hard copy (PdF) should be kept with the applicant. all inquiries and appeals 
should be made with a photocopy of that document. ministry of Education will bear no responsibility about the 
inconveniences faced by the applicants due to being inattentive to these instructions.
9.8.  Applying for a course is not a qualification for the recruitment. Recruitment is made only by considering the 
vacancies of the district and the conditions mentioned in the Gazette notification. Colleges of Education Board / 
Secretary to the Ministry of Education, Higher Education, and V ocational Education reserves the right of the final 
decision regarding this.
9.9.  If any certificate submitted by the applicant is revealed later to be forged or fraudulent, the applicant will be 
dismissed from the course / service and will further be ineligible for any post in the Public Service.
10.0  Regarding any problems or specific situations arising with regard to the information and qualifications mentioned in 
the Gazette notification, the decision of the Colleges of Education Board / Secretary to the Ministry of Education, 
Higher Education, and V ocational Education will be the final.
11.0 in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and t amil or English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
Nalaka Kaluwewe,
Secretary.
ministry of Education, Higher Education and V ocational Education
isurupaya, 
battaramulla,
16th of december, 2024.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'12'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2024
2473
annexure 2
 Recruitement of Student teachers to the National colleges of Education on technology  on the results of G. c.E. (a.L.) Examination - 2023 National and 
district basis 2025
National basis
Western central Southern Nothern Eastern North
Western
North
central Uva Sabaragamuwa
district total
total
Subject Name
colombo
Gampaha
Kalutara
Kandy
matale
Nuwara Eliya
Galle
matara
Hambantota
Jaffna
mannar
Vavuniya
mullaitivu
Kilinochchi
batticaloa
ampara
trincomalee
Kurunegala
Puttalam
anuradhapura
Polonnaruwa
badulla
moneragala
Ratnapura
Kegalle
Engineering technology 
(a/Level) 35 3 4 2 3 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1    2    1    1    1 1 1    1    1    35     70 
bio-Systems technology 
(a/Level) 35 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1    2    1    2    1 2 1    2    1    35     70 
information and communication 
technology ( a/ Level) 35 4 4 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1    1    1    1    1 1 1    1    1    35     70 
total 105 10 11 7 8 3 3 3 3 3 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 5 3 4 3 4 3 4 3 105   210 
12-337
________________________________
amendment
Pub LIC  S ER v ICE  C O mm ISSION  E D u CATION  S ER v ICE  C O mm ITTEE
m inistry of Education
EX amiNatioN FoR SRi LaNKa tEacHER EdUcatoR' S SERV icE iN LiNK LaNGUaGE (ENGLiSH) - 2024
tHE notice for calling applicat ions for the Examination for Sri Lanka teacher Educator's Service in Link Language (English) - 2024, and published through 
Gazette Notification No. 2,412 dated November 22, 2024, of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, has been revised as follows:
the deadline for submitting online applications to the department of Examinations has been extended up to January 22, 2025.
Except for this amendment, all other conditions specified in the above Gazette Notification remain unchanged.
Dr. K. P. Munagama,
 additional Secretary (Education Service Establishment)
For Secretary .
12-358
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERN mENt  PRiNtiNG,   SRi  LaNKa.
3rd reading / SS/ T-10