

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.10.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1987$21 - 2016 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 05 jeks nodod - 2016'10'05
No. 1987/21 - WEDNESDAY,  OCTOBER  05, 2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  LAW,  No.  41  OF  1978
Order under Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 3 of the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978, I, Patalee
Champika Ranawaka, Minister of Megapolis and Western Development being of the opinion that the area specified in
Column I of the Schedule, appended hereto, having specified metes and bounds in the corresponding entry in Column II  of
the Schedule, are suitable for development, do by this order declare such area to be an Urban Development Area for the
purpose of that Section.
P
ATALEE C HAMPIKA  R ANAWAKA,
Minister of Megapolis and Western Development.
Ministry of Megapolis and Western Development,
17th and 18th Floors,
“Suhurupaya”,
Subuthipura Road,
Battaramulla,
20th September 2016.
SCHEDULE  I
R
AKWANA URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREA
Column I Column II
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
All the areas comprised of Grama Niladhari Divisions
No. 231B Rakwana Town, No. 231 Rakwana North (Part),
No. 231C Rakwana South (Part), No. 231D Kottala (Part),
No. 231A Weralugahamula (Part) and No. 237 Masimbula
(Part) of Godakawela situated in the Pradeshiya Sabha area
within the Godakawela Divisional Secretariat Division of
Ratnapura District in the Sabaragamuwa Province, having
the metes and bounds specified in the corresponding entry
in Column II of this Schedule.
North :
From the interception of the centre line of Demuwath river
and Liyanagoda road, a line drawn north east and eastwards
along the centre line of Madampe-Deniyaya-Galle (A 17)
main road; thence, a line drawn south east, south, east and
again south wards along the centre line of the said road until
it meets the intersecting point of centre line of Madampe-
Deniyaya-Galle (A 17) main road and Delwin Watta road ;
thence, a line drawn south, east, south east, north east and
again south east wards along the centre line of Delwin Watta

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'10'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.10.2016
2A
road until it meets the centre line of Rakwana-Masimbula -
Godakawala road ; thence, a line drawn north east, north,
north east and east wards along the centre line of Rakwana-
Masimbula-Godakawela road until it meets the centre line
of Karunarathnegama road.
East :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn south and south
east wards along the centre line of Karunarathnegama road
until it meets the centre line of Kandapola road ; thence, a
line drawn north east, east, south east and north east wards
along the centre line of Kandapola road until it meets the
centre line of Rakwana river ; thence, a line drawn south
east, south west, north west, south east, south west, north
west, west and south wards along the centre line of Rakwana
river until it meets the centre line of Galdola ; thence, a line
drawn south, south west, south east, west and south wards
along the centre line of Galdola until it meets the centre
line of Madampe-Deniyaya-Galle (A 17) main road.
South :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn west, north, north
west, south west, north west, south west and north west wards
along the centre line of Madampe-Deniyaya-Galle (A 17)
main road crossing the centre line of Rakwana river until it
meets the centre line of Aleton Watta road ; thence, a line
drawn west, north, north west and again north wards along
the centre line of Aleton Watta road until it meets the centre
line of Rakwana-Pothupitiya-Kalawana (B 181) road ;
thence, a line drawn south west, south and west wards along
the centre line of Rakwana-Pothupitiya-Kalawana (B 181)
road until it meets the centre line of Kandegama-Gangoda
road.
West :
From the last mentioned point a line drawn north west, south
west, north west, west, north west, north, east and north east
wards along the centre line of Kandegama-Gangoda road
until it meets the centre line of Rakwana-Gangoda-Pannila
road ; thence, a line drawn south east, north east, east, north
east and south wards along the centre line of Rakwana-
Gangoda-Pannila road until it meets the centre line of
Kottala Dola ; thence, a line drawn north east, north, north
east and north west wards until it meets the centre line of
Aneka Dola ; thence, a line drawn north west, north, west,
north west and again west wards along the centre line of
Kottala Dola until it meets the centre line of Demuwath
river ; thence, a line drawn north west wards along the centre
line of Demuwath river until it meets the starting point.
SCHEDULE  I (Contd.)
R
AKWANA URBAN D EVELOPMENT AREA
Column I Column II
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
10-662