

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1321
wxl 1"787 - 2012 fkdjeïn¾ 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'11'30
No. 1,787  – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 30, 2012
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... 1342
Miscellaneous Notices ... 1342
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... 1322
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 1330
By-Laws ... ––
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
1321
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st December, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
December, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
N.B.— (i) Jam' Iyyathus Sahwa Al-Khairiyya (JASKA) (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 05th October, 2012.
(ii) Hands for Education  (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 05th October, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1322
Posts – Vacant
NAGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Recruitment for Vacancies in the Southern Provincial Public Service
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible person who are permanent residents in the Southern Province for the following posts presently
vacant to file the same in the Nagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Serial Name of Post Number of Salary scale Educational Qualifications
Number V acancies
01 Karyala Karya Sahayaka (KKS) 01 Rs. 11,730 -10x120- 10x130- Should have passed at least Grade
10x145- 12x160 - Rs. 17,600 Eight or any other examination
(P. A. C. 06/2006(IV) PL1-2006A) equivalent thereto
02 Road Labourer 01 Rs. 11,730 -10x120- 10x130 -10x145- Should have at least passed Grade
12x160 - Rs. 17,600 Five
(P. A. C. 06/2006(IV) PL1-2006A)
Recruitment conditions :
Every applicant should -
1. Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Be a permanent resident in the Southern Province for three years immediately preceding the closing date of application ;
3. Special consideration will be given to the permanently residents in the Pradeshiya Sabha area of Nagoda ;
4. Be not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years on closing date of application (the maximum age limit will not be
applicable to those who are permanent in Government and Provincial Government Service) to attain for the substitute/
casual/temporary or contract basis, the age should between 18-45) ;
5. Be of excellent moral character and physically sound ;
6. Special consideration will be given to those who are presently employed in Nagoda Pradeshiya Sabha as temporary/casual/
substitute/contract basis ;
7. Chairman of the Nagoda Pradeshiya Sabha has the power to delay, change, cancel or amend this notification after calling
applications or in the meantime.
8. Applicants must not be convicted and punished by a Court of Law under the provisions of Penal Code.
9. Appointment will be made by calling candidate for an interview on exigencies of service.
Conditions for the Employment :-
(i) These posts are permanent and entitled for pension and selected candidates should contribute to the widows/widowers and
Orphan Pension Scheme ;
(ii) Those selected will be subjected to a probationary period of three years ;
(iii) In addition to the conditions and regulations of recruitment the persons who are recruited to comply with regulations of the
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations and the Departmental Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and the regulations and order that may be issued from time to time by the Southern Provincial Council of Nagoda
Pradeshiya Sabha.
Method of submission of the Application :-
1. All applications must be prepared on A4 paper according to the specimen application form given here and should be
addressed and posted to Chairman, Nagoda Pradeshiya Sabha, G/Nagoda under registered post before 31.12.2012. (The
applicants who are presently employed in the Provincial Government Service should forward their applications through
the Head of the Institution). Applications received after the due date will not be considered. The post applied for should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1323
2. Certified copies of the following documents must be sent with the application. Originals of the Certificates should be
presented at the interview :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Educational Certificates ;
(iii) Certificate of reisdence issued by the Grama Niladari, countersigned by the Divisional Secretary ;
(iv) Two character Certificates obtained recently ;
(v) Certificates for proof of other Qualifications ;
(vi) Certificates for proof of Experience.
WILEGE HEMACHANDRA,
Chairman,
Nagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Nagoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
12th November, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
NAGODA PRADESHIYA SABHA
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ..........................
01. (i) Name with Initial :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name denoted by Initials :–––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Residential District :–––––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
05. Sex :–––––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––.
07. Age as at the closing date of the Application :
Years :–––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––––.
08. Civil Status :–––––––––––––.
09. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
10. Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka ? :–––––––––––––.
If so, is it by descent or by virtue of registration ? :–––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
12. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge, I am also
aware if any particulars given here by me are found to be false or incorrect ; I will be disqualified before selection and dism issed if such
deletion is made after appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1324
CERTIFICATE FROM THE HEAD OF ESTABLISHMENT IN RESPECT OF APPLICANTS WHO ARE PRESENTLY IN
GOVERNMENT OR PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT SERVICE
The applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is presently employed in this Department/Institution in the capacity  of
.......................... if he/she is selected for this post he/she can/cannot be released from this service. I certify he/she has not been subjected to
any disciplinary punishment (other than warning).
I recommend and forward this application.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature,
Head of Department/Institution.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Department/Institution :–––––––––––––.
(Office Seal)
Date :–––––––––––––.
11–1113
–––––––––––––––––––
URBAN  COUNCIL - TANGALLE
Recruitment to fill the Vacancies of Southern Province Public Service
APPLICATIONS are invited to fill the vacancies from the persons who permanently residing in the Southern Province and possessing only
the minimum Qualifications stipulated - in the schedule below. Preference will be given to employees who are Employed by the Council on
casual or contract basis.
SCHEDULE
Post Number of V acancies and Salary Scale Edu cation Qualification
01. Health Labourer - 12 Rs. 11,730 -10x120 - 10x130 -10x145 - Applicant should be passed at least 05th or 06th
12x160 - Rs. 17,600 standered from a school approved by Director
General of Education. (If necessary it will be loosed
this Qualifications).
02. Road Labourer - 02 Rs. 11,730 - 10x120- 10x130 - 10x145 - Applicant should be passed at least 05th or 06th
12x 160 - Rs. 17,600 standered from a school approved by Director
General of Education.
03. Watcher - 01 Rs. 13,060 -9x130 -10x145 - 12x160 - Applicant should be passed at least 08th or 09th
Rs. 17,600 standered from a school approved by Director
General of Education.
Other Qualifications and General Conditions :
01. Persons, who was sent on compulsory retirement for in competence or persons who sent on retirement instead of dismissal
from the service or forced for compulsory retirement as punishment or persons who sent on retirement after disciplinary
inquiry or persons who vacated the post are not eligible to apply for these posts.
02. Persons punished by a Court of Law for any act committed against the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka are not
eligible to apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1325
03. Persons punished by a Court of Law for any oriminal act committed or persons who punished by a Court of Law under
Section 449, after a preliminary trial are not eligible to apply.
04. The Applicant should not be a bankrupt person.
05. The Applicant should be a Citizen of Sri Lanka and should not be insolvent.
06. Applicant should contain a good and moral character and as well in good health condition.
07. The Applicant should be between the age group of 18-45 by 21.12.2012 how ever this age limits are not applicable in Local
Government Service or Government Service.
08. Applicant should be a person who resided in Southern Province at least 03 years before the date of application.
09. The Council is entitled retained the power to stop or dismiss any applicant on or before as well after the recruitment to any
particular post.
Additional Qualification :
01. Applicant who should be a persons resided in the Tangalle Urban Council limits at least 03 years before the date of
application.
02. For Road Labourers (Street Labourers Category) possessing a valid driving license for three wheelers or heavy vehicle is
essential and knowledge on mason work, carpentry and electrical work will be regarded as an additional qualification.
Preference will be given to those who possess the said additional qualification.
Procedure of recruitment.– All applicants will be interviewed and recruitment for services will be effected after reviewing the
qualifications.
Conditions for Engagement in to Service :
01. All posts are permanent and entitled for Pension and W & OP contribution to the above funds are mandatory by
employees.
02. The persons who recruited should strictly adhered and abide all rules and regulations imposed by the Government and by
Public Service Commission of Southern Province in time to time, all financial and administrative regulations stipulated in
the Establishment Code all circulars instructions issued by departments in frequent intervals and also all amendments and
instructions issued by the Urban Council, Tangalle.
03. Persons who recruited should be able to deposit security as per, the regulations stipulated in the Act for Government
Services.
04. All employees must satisfy with official language proficiency regulations up by the Government.
05. The service of any person who recruitment for suitable post will be from the service if found providing or submitting false
information.
06. All Employees are subjected to transfer, when required.
07. All appointments are subjected to probationary period of 03 years and if the conduct and behavior service will be
terminated with immediate effect.
Proceed of Application.– All applications should be addressed to “Chairman, Urban Council, Tangalle and be sent by registered
post mentioning the post applied on the left corner of the envelope on or before 14.12.2012 or otherwise the application can pe rsonally
handed over to the Secretary of the council in duly filled from which append below.
Applicant already engagement in Government Services should forward their applications through the relevant department heads.
Any application sent after closing date will not be entertained.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1326
The application should accompanied with the following documents :
01. Copy of Birth Certificate ;
02. Education Qualifications Certificates ;
03. Document of proof of residency in the area ;
04. A recent certificate from the Grama Niladari ;
05. Two character certificates obtained recently ;
06. Certificates for additional Qualification ;
07. Professional or Special Qualification if any.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS IN URBAN COUNCIL, TANGALLE OF SOUTHERN PROVINCE PUBLIC SERVICE
01. ( a) Name with Initials :––––––––––––.
(b) Names denoting by Initials :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent District :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent Grama Niladari Division :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
05. Sex :––––––––––––.
06. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :
Age on 14.12.2012 :
Year :––––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––––.
08. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
09. Age you Citizen in Sri Lanka by born or by Registered :––––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––.
11. Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
12. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
13. Special Qualifications :––––––––––––.
14. Service Experience :
(i) Institution presently working :––––––––––––.
(ii) Present Designation :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of Appointment of that Post :––––––––––––.
(iv) Before that designation and place you have worked :––––––––––––.
I declare the information furnished by me in the application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief and I
aware that if any statement is found to be false, I am liable to be disqualified and also liable to be dismissed from service if I found to be false
after my appointment to the post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1327
IF THE APPLICANTS ARE IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE/PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE, CERTIFICATE OF HEAD OF INSTITUTION
I certify that the appointment, Mr./Mrs./Miss ....................... has been serving in this department as a ................ ........... He/She
can be/cannot be released from his service, if he/she recruited to this post, while certifying that he/she has not subjected ac tion (except
warning) I recommend and submit this application.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Department/Institution (Official Stamp) :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
11–1112
–––––––––––––––––
KATANA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Filling of Vacancies in Western Province Public Service
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for recruitment to the Posts vacant at present in Katana Pradeshiya Sabha from qualified persons who
are permanent residents in Western Province. Applicant should prepare the applications in accordance to the specimen applicatio n given
below and send same to the address “Secretary, Katana Pradeshiya Sabha, Demanghandiya” to reach me on or before 24.12.2012.
Applicants who are already in Government/Provincial Government Service should forward the applications through their Heads
of Department.
Serial Name of No. Salary Scale Educational and Other Qualifications
Number the Post
01 Driver 01 Rs. 12,470 -10x130-10x145 -10x160 - A minimum pass in Grade 8/Year 9 from an
12x170 - Rs. 18,860 approved school by the Director General
P. A. C.  6/2006(iv) PL 3-2006A of Education and should possess a driving
Efficiency Bar before reaching fourth license issued by the Commissioner
salary step General of Motor Vehicles for driving
motor vehicle, Private Taxi or a Station
Wagon under 24 cwt of total weight.
Specially should be able to drive Tractors
with the Trailer. Should have 03 years
Experience as Vehicle Driver. Should be
bodily fit to work in day and night service.
Also should have an excellent eye sight.
Recruitment will be made on marks
obtained in the Practical test and in the
interview.
02 Office Labourer Service III 02 Rs. 11,730- 10x120 -10x130 -10x145 - Pass in Grade 5 Year 6
(Road Labourer) 15x160 - Rs. 17,600
P. A. C.  6/2006(iv) PL 1-2006A
Efficiency Bar before reaching fourth
salary step
04 Office Labourer Service III 01 Rs. 11,730- 10x120 -10x130 -10x145 - Educational Qualifications will not be
(Health Labourer) 15x160 - Rs. 17,600 considered
P. A. C.  6/2006(iv) PL 1-2006A
Efficiency Bar before reaching fourth
salary step

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1328
Terms and conditions of service for recruitment :
A. This post is permanent and pensionable.
B. Contributions are to made for Widow and Orphanage/spouse and Orphanage Fund.
C. Selected candidates will be on probation period for 3 years. During that period if work, attendance and conducts are
satisfactory the post will be made permanent in completion of the probation period.
The persons who are already in Government/Provincial Government Service will be recruited on the basis of 01 year acting
period.
(2) Other General Conditions :
A. On the date of calling applications the age should be not less than 18 years and should not be above 45 years. (Applicants
who are already in Government/Provincial Service the maximum age limit will not be imposed).
B. Applicants should be Sri Lankans by decent or by registration.
C. Applicant should posses an excellent character and health. If selected applicant should under go a medical test conducted
by a Government Doctor within a month and if the applicant found bodily unfit in the medical test the appointment will
be cancelled.
D. Applicant should not be a person who convicted by a court under the Penal Code.
E. Should be permanent resident in Western Province in the recent past 03 years on the date of calling for application.
F. Should not be a person dismissed from service in Government/Provincial Government Service and should be not be a person
retired under Public Administration Circular No. 44/90.
(3) Method of Application.– In accordance with the specimen given in this notification prepare an application (A4 size) and the
name of the post that you apply should be mentioned at the top left hand corner for the envelope enclosing the application
and sent under registered cover to the address "Registrar, Katana Pradeshiya Sabha, Demanghandiya" on or before ...............
Applications received after the closing date and incomplete applications will rejected without giving any notice.
The copies of the following documents should be sent along with the application :-
* Birth Certificate.
* Educational Certificate.
* Residential Certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari and counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
* Certificates showing Other Qualifications.
E. D. N
ANDAWATHIE,
Secretary,
Katana Pradeshiya Sabha.
Katana Pradeshiya Sabha,
Demanghandiya,
14th November, 2012.
KATANA PRADESHIYA SABHA
APPLICATON FOR THE POST OF ......................................... IN THE WESTERN PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SERVICE
01. Name with Initials :–––––––––––––––.
Name denoted by Initials :–––––––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address :–––––––––––––––.
03. District of Permanent Residence :–––––––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1329
05. Date of Birth :
Date :–––––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––––,  Year :–––––––––––––––.
06. Age as at closing date of application :
Days :–––––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––––,  Years :–––––––––––––––.
07. Sex :–––––––––––––––.
08. Whether you are citizen of Sri Lanka either by descent or by registration :–––––––––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications (Copies of certificates should be annexed) :
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year of Examination and Index No. :–––––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
10. (1) Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
(2) Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
(3) Service Experience :–––––––––––––––.
11. If you are already employed in this Pradeshiya Sabha periods and details of service and nature of the appointment Permanent/Casual/
Temporary should be stated :–––––––––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted of any offence in a Court of Law ? :–––––––––––––––.
I certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and correct. I am aware that I'm liable to be disqualified
before the appointment if the information furnished by me are found to be false and I'm liable to dismissal without any compensation if it
is detected after selection to this post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF HEAD OF INSTITUTION
The applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is employed in this Institution as ............................. He/She  can/cannot be
released from the service. I certify that he/she has been subject to any form of disciplinary punishment and recommend and forw ard the
application.
––––––––––––––,
Head of Institution.
Signature :–––––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
11–1105

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1330
Local Government Notifications
BADULLA   MUNICIPAL   COUNCIL
Notice under Section 48(1) of the Municipal Councils Act, No. 16 of 1947
IT was decided by the approval of the Badulla Municipal Council dated 31.10.2012 that, for the benefit of the public, the right s of
administration of the road mentioned in the schedule herein are to be carried out by the Badulla Municipal Council in the Badulla District,
in the Uva Province, in terms of Section No. 48(1) of the Municipal Councils Act, No. 16 of 1947.
It is hereby notified that if any objections are to be raised by the public of the area or any person desired to claim the ownership
for the lands of that road, they should submit their objections or claims with evidence in writing to the Municipal Council within 30 days
from the date of this notice published in the gazette.
I hereby inform that if no actions have been taken according to this notice within the said period, it will be considered as no
objections raised and steps will be taken to announce that the road mentioned in the Schedule, as published in this Gazette Notification, will
be administered and deemed as belonging to Badulla Municipal Council.
UPALI NISSANKA GUNASEKARA,
Mayor,
Badulla Municipal Council.
Badulla Municipal Council,
08th November, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Serial Name of the Place of beginning Place of ending Left side Right side Length Breadth
No. Road assessment assessment assessment No. Meters Meters
No. No.
01 Gangabada Road, Gangabada Road 6/16 6/ 1 6/12, 6/11/ 6/12A, 6/14A, 155 4.5
2nd Lane 6/13, 10/2B, 6/16
11–1152
––––––––––––––––––––
SRI  JA YA WARDENAPURA  KOTTE  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL
Notice published under Section 37(1) of the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Chapter 252) of
Legislative Enactment of Sri Lanka
IT is hereby announced as per the Section 37(1) "B" of the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Chapter 252) of Legislative Enactment of Sri
Lanka that the road mentioned in the schedule hereunder will be declared, as a road belonging to the Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte Municipal
Council, by the Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte Municipal Council in the District of Colombo of Western Province.
It is further hereby announced that if any objection is expressed by a party who is laying claim to the relevant land relating to this
road which has been presently marked having surveyed by the Municipal Council, action shall be taken to submit such objections within one
month from the date of this notice being published.
SHANTHA P. LIYANAGE,
Municipal Commissioner,
Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte Municipal Council.
At the Office of Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte,  Municipal Council,
Day of November, 2012.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1331
Serial Name of the road Boundary from-to Length W idth
No. (feet) (feet)
01 By-road in the Kandewatta From Assessment No. 10/3 to Assessment 136' 8" At the beginning
Terrace Nos. 10/3A, 10/3A, 1/1, 10/5 and 112/8G 15 feet 8 inches and
(112/12G new) in the end 10 feet
11–1085
––––––––––––––––––––
BADULLA  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL
Notice under Section 48(1) of the Municipal Councils Act, No. 16 of 1947
IT was decided by the approval of the Badulla Municipal Council dated 31.10.2012 that, for the benefit of the public, the right s of
administration of the road mentioned in the schedule herein are to be carried out by the Badulla Municipal Council in the Badulla District,
in the Uva Province, in terms of Section No. 48(1) of the Municipal Councils Act, No. 16 of 1947.
It is hereby notified that if any objections are to be raised by the public of the area or any person desired to claim the ownership
for the lands of that road, they should submit their objections or claims with evidence in writing to the Municipal Council within 30 days
from the date of this notice published in the gazette.
I hereby inform that if no actions have been taken according to this notice within the said period, it will be considered as no
objections raised and steps will be taken to announce that the road mentioned in the Schedule, as published in this gazette notification, will
be administered and deemed as belonging to Badulla Municipal Council.
UPALI NISSANKA GUNASEKARA,
Mayor,
Badulla Municipal Council.
Badulla Municipal Council,
08th November, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Serial Name of the Place of beginning Place of ending Left side Right side Length Breadth
No. Road assessment assessment assessment No. Meters Meters
No. No.
01 Asweddum Pitiya Hingurugamuwa 493/9 493/2, 493/3, 493/10, 493/8, 493/13, 140m 3.0m
By-road Dunuwangiya Road 493/4 493/9
11–1068
–––––––––––––––––
GAMPAHA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-law Regarding solid Waste Management and IMP
Lementing same for Eradication of Mosquitoes and other
Diseases causing Insects, within the area
GAMPAHA Pradeshiya Sabha informs that as proposed by Hon.
Chairman Mr. Ranjith Padmalal Gunawardana and seconded by Hon.
Member of the Pradeshiya Sabha Mr. Anjana Sirnath at the meeting
held on 26.06.2012 it is approved to accept and implement the By-
law for solid waste Management and By-law for eradication of
mosquitoes and other diseases causing insects within the area of
Pradeshiya Sabha, from the date of publication in the gazette of the
approved By-law under the Local Government (Approved By-law)
Act, Section 3, Sub-section 1, prepared by Minister-in-charge for
Local Government in the Provincial Council of Western Province, by
virtue of power vested upon by Provincial Council (constitutent
provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, Section 2, Sub-section 1 paragraph
(a) read with Authority 261 of Local Government Authorities
(approved By-law) Act, No. 6 of 1952, Section 2 Sub-section 1 and
published in the gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, No. 1,713/11 date 05.07.2011.
R
ANJITH PADMALAL GUNAW ARDHANA,
Chairman,
Gampaha Pradeshiya Sabha.
11–1151

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1332
MIRIGAMA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
I hereby propose that it is in order, to accept, acknowledge and
implement the under-mentioned By-laws formulated by the
Minister-in-charge of the subject of the Provincial Councils in the
Western Province under Sectin 2 of Provincial Local Government
Institutions, (Incidental provisions) Act, No. 06 of 1952 read with
Section 02 of the Pradeshiya Sabha (Enacted By-laws) Act, No. 12
of 1989 and published in Section IV(a) of the Gazette No. 1,713/11
of 05.07.2011, it is hereby notified that the following proposal was
adopted at the general meeting held on 28th August, 2012. In addition
it is informed that from the date on which this notice is published in
the Gazette said By-laws will be enforced and implemented in the
administrative area of the Mirigama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Mirigama Pradeshiya Sabha Office on 25.09.2012.
A
NANDA PREMACHANDRA RANAWEERA,
Chairman,
Mirigama Pradeshiya Sabha.
By-laws pertaining to management of solid waste.
GENERAL
1. These by-laws are cited as by-laws relating to solid waste
management.
2. These by-laws are enacted for the regulations, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transportation, operation and maintenance of transfer stations,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Pradeshiya Sabha limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall keep the premises free of waste and in a
healthy and pleasant condition.
4. The owner of occupier of any premises situated within the
area of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store, transport
and remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause
to do so accordance with the provisions of these by-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect
solid waste generated within his own premises daily or
in lesser intervals if required, by sweeping or using any
other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this by-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out
for collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20
shall be maintained in good condition and not put out
for collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or
softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for
any other reason, they are likely to collapse or split
when reasonably handled. Pradeshiya Sabha may provide
such receptacles if they saw wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental injurious or to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue or any other public place or
premises or a drain or a water reservoir of the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the
environment in an open space within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-law No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose
the waste within such premises except –
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed
in accordance with a plan and standard approved by the
Secretary, or treat, process or bury waste in the manner
approved by the Secretary.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1333
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the
Secretary for "compost barrel" the Secretary may supply
such equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full
provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space in
the premises to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the garden waste collected within that premises in
a manner approved by the Secertary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any residual garden waste on
payment of a fee specified as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time taking into
consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the
Secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the
road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or
cause them to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house
or any other premises shall include in his application
details of solid waste generated in his premises and the
manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged
material.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method
as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for this purpose until removal.
Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be
kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable material
which will be properly closed preventing the entry of
rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal carcasses,
body parts or dung shall be handed over to a Municipal
waste collector without delay following the payment
of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time for the Pradeshiya Sabha area
taking into consideration the nature of the disposable
waste.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector,
types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If the occupier fails to do so, he shall together with
the type of waste specified in item ( c) hand over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector or deposit in bins
constructed for each waste type by the Pradeshiya
Sabha or in bins or other receptacles provided by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) Hazardous waste,
(d) Animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) Dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in
paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or
receptacles in accordance with standards and
specifications approved by the Secretary and shall
maintain them in a clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
sub-section (ii), the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date by the
Secretary and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to
act in accordance with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste spcified in items ( a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed
over to Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. (i) It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or
receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after
obtaining prior approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all
collected waste from his place of residence, segregated

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1334
as follows, into the nearest approved bins or receptacles
supplied to his place of residence :–
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) hazardous waste ;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(iii) The Secretary has the power to permit a waste collector
to remove types of waste specified in items ( a) and (b)
of sub-section (ii) of this by-law. Any such waste not
removed, together with types of waste of type ( c) and
(d) shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
SHOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate wastes collected in each complex as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) hazardous waste ;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized waste
collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office
complex with several storey and floors shall provide
the required number of waste bins or receptacles for
each shop or office in accordance with the standards
approved by the Secretary for depositing or collecting
segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated
waste into separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or
occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized
waste collector, types of waste specified in items ( a)
and (b) in Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) Types of waste specified in item (i) and any types of
waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law, that are not collected by an authroized
collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier
as the case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector,
following the payment of a fee to the Secretary by the
owner or occupier as the case may be as determined by
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to
cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to
neighbours or persons engaged in services in such shop
or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop, or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office ;
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter
129) ;
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for
wholesale or retail and includes a place where food
or beverages are kept for sale, and a place where a
barber shop or beauty salon is operated.
HOTELS
12. (i) Any Hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing
shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause
it to be segregated as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b
) reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) hazardous waste ;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the
segregated waste and store in a suitable place until
removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in
writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of
plastic or metal properly secured with a lid, all food
waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of
flies, rats, insects or any other animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) in Sub-
section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier
to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time taking into consideration the nature
of the waste.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1335
(vi) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Hotel" means, a place with or
without sleeping facilities where food or beverages or
liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of
money and it includes a restaurant, guest house, lodging
house, rest house, pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique,
cafeteria and any other premises in which a business is
carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
VEGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or
fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his
own premises as follows :-
(a) vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for
human consumption,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item ( a) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle
made of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in iterms ( a), (b) and ( d) of
sub-section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over
together with types of waste specified in item ( c) and
(d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed
over to Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, on payment
of a fee to the Secretary, as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires "Vegetable and fruit store" means a
place where vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or
exposed for sale.
MEAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than
those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers
Ordinance in terms of a license issued by the Secretary
for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued uner Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other condition the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the issue of a
license under sub-section (i) of this by-law payable at
time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a
stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their
waste as follows :–
(a) carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) hazardous waste ;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacle, types of waste specified in item (a) of
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall be placed inside an
impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly,
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any such waste not handed
over, together with type of waste specified in item ( c)
of sub-section (iv) of this By-law, shall be handed over
to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, following the
payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time before the spread of foul odor.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires "meat, fish or egg stall" means, a
place where such items are stored for purpose of sale or
kept or exposed for sale.
PA VEMENT HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carried out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. Any such waste shall not be
put on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) hazardous waste.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1336
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or
other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item ( a)
of Sub-section (iii) of this By-law that may be eaten by
insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle, which shall be kept closed except when
required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such
types of waste as specified in items ( a) and (b) of sub-
section (iii) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste as specified in item
(c) of Sub-section (iii) of this By-law to a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not
be kept, on a pavement or roadside or highway, when
the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time before waste
bins or other receptacles are handed over to a  Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Pavement hawker" means a person
who sells goods or provides a service on the pavement
or roadside.
FACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :-
(a) bio-degradable waste ;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) hazardous waste ;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of sub-
section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, on a payment of a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time, to the Secretary.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the
conditions set out in the Environmental Protection
License issued under the National Environmental Act,
No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires, "Factory" has the same meaning as
in the Factories Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter
128).
EXCAV ATION, CONSTRUCTION AND
DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure
shall store such waste so generated within the premises
or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal of
such waste from such premises in an appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a fee to the Secretary as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
"For the purpose of this by-law, every person engaged
in an act of excavation, construction or demolition"
includes any person engaged for such service by
an employer ;
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and
waste generated during demolition of any
construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall
obtain prior approval from the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall take into consideration the
arrangements made by the applicant for the removal of
waste, the quantity of waste that may be kept
temporarily on the road or in a public place after
completion of the proposed job and the cost of removal
of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to
giving approval under sub-section (i) the applicant shall
be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated
cost as a deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the money deposited under Sub-section
(ii).
HOSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be
segregated waste generated within the premises as
follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste ;

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1337
(c) hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item ( d)
in this sub-section ;
(d) hazardous healthcare waste ;
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) under
Sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste specified in items ( c) and ( d) of sub-section (i)
shall be deposited in a bins or any other receptacles
specially made for that purpose and kept in a place set
apart for that purpose and shall be removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environment Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of
sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Municipal waste collector, following
the payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.
(iv) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
"Hospital" means, any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from
any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home,
clinic, medical centre, medical laboratory, maternity
home and veterinary hospital ;
"Hazardous health care waste" means, clinical waste,
body parts, placentas, infectious and highly
infectious waste and sharps.
OTHER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social, cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) hazardous waste ;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping
the premises.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( d) of
sub-section (i) of this by-law shall be handed over to an
authorized collector or to a Urban Pradeshiya Sabha
waste collector, along with the type of waste specified
in item ( c) of sub-section (i), on payment of a fee as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer
the following :-
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area ;
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets
or roads and in all public places ;
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in a public
places, at festivals, special events or any other
event as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where
the Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following
a request from the organizers of such festival on
special events ;
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public, waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it
becomes a nuisance to nearby residents ;
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the preceding sections
and take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
DUTIES OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
22. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer the following :-
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste ;
(b) to conduct awareness programs or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste ;
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities ;

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1338
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities ;
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
system ;
(f) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and fees as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of the Pradeshiya
Sabha. This schedule shall be publicly notified by
the Pradeshiya Sabha. It may include conditions
for collection on public holidays ;
(g) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule ;
(h) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors ;
(i) to handover to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary ;
(j) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary ;
(k) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with
the Central Environmental Authority ;
(l) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license of
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill ;
(m) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste ;
(n) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initials stage and on
the completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises ;
(o) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
all Pradeshiya Sabha premises ;
(p) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste
Management Action Plan in accordance with the
National Strategy of Solid Waste Management and
relevant legislation which covers at least each
calendar year in detail and three years ahead for
final disposal and such plan shall be approved
annually on a less frequent basis by the Pradeshiya
Sabha, according to the period it covers ;
(q) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
PERMITS
23. (i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, bio-gas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Urban
Pradeshiya Sabha area or in any other Local
Authority area, in terms of the by-laws as approved
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ;
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 ;
(c) storage place for collected waste constructed in
accordance with the standards approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha ;
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people ;
(e) agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or
any other waste created as by-products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a fee the Secretary for collection of such waste as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time, where the business is carried out within the
Urban Pradeshiya Sabha Limits.
(ii) Where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to issue
a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1339
the reasons for such refusal or rejection within thirty
days of receipt of the application for the permit ;
(iii) The Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period of
vallidity, the type or types of waste permitted to be
Collected, the permitted area for collection of such waste
and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under this
By-law in the event of non-compliance of the provisions
of subsection (i) of this By-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv). In
such event the Secretary shall give sufficient publicity
thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people
of the revocation of such permit.
WASTE  DISPOSAL  AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb
or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste
disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha for that
purpose no deposit any prohibited refuse which the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate unless
authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to certain
specified conditions.
25. No person shall provide, operates or uses any land or facility
for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside the
land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits except
with the prior written approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha
and the Central Environmental Authority subject to any
conditions of approval.
OTHER
26. (i) The Secretary, any person authorized by him in writing
shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter
any premises and inspect as to whether the owner or
occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these
By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Seccretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer
who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the Pradeshiya
Sabha Ordinance.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these By-laws, unless context otherwise
requires –
"Authorized Collector" means, a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect or receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws ;
"Authorized Officer" means, any person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws ;
"Bin or other receptacles" means, any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By laws.
"Bio-degradable waste" means, waste that may be
degraded or decomposed by micro-organisms ;
"Collection" means, the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for refusing, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities ;
"Secretary" means, in relation to any Pradeshiya Sabha,
means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Urban Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any
person appointed to act as such Secretary or any
officer of such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or
under this Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any
of the powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to
the extent to which such officer is so empowered ;
"Compost" means, the final product of the bio-degradation
of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that
could be functioned as soil conditioner ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha" means, Mirigama Pradeshiya Sabha ;
"Pradeshiya Sabha Area" means, the area declared under
the Authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 ;
"Discharge" means, where part or all of the waste
produced by a person or premises and put out for
collection either within or outside their premises or
given to authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha
waste collectors ;
"Disposal" means, the placement of all waste that is neither
re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land
where it is intended to stay permanently ;

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1340
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption,
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or plants
in a home garden or stones, soil etc. removed from a
home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacels or a person who has entered into a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Reusable Waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing, disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these by-laws.
“Solid waste” means substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
transferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purposes of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using sum form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
11-1072/1
–––––––––––––––––
MIRIGAMA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
I hereby notified that it is in order, to accept, acknowledge and
implement the under-mentioned By-laws formulated by the
Minister-in-charge of the subject of the Provincial Council in the
Western Province under Section 2 of Provincial Local Government
Institutions, (Incidental provisions) Act, No. 06 of 1952 read with
Section 02 of the Pradeshiya Sabha (Enacted By-laws) Act, No. 12
of 1989 and published in Section IV(a) of the Gazette No. 1,713/11
of 05.07.2011, it is hereby notified that the following proposal was
adopted at the general meeting held on 28th August, 2012. In addition
it is informed that from the date on which this notice is published in
the Gazette said By-laws will be enforced and implemented in the
administrative area of the Mirigama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Mirigama Pradeshiya Sabha Office on 25.09.2012.
A
NANDA PREMACHANDRA RANAWEERA,
Chairman,
Mirigama Pradeshiya Sabha.
By-laws pertaining to eradication of mosquitoes and germs.
BY-LAWS
1. These by-laws may be cited as the by-laws for the
improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of
Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha by the prevention of mosquito
breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding and for the prevention
of epidemics within such area of authority.
2. No person shall do any act or cause, any act to be done within
the area of authority of any Pradeshiya Sabha which may cause the
breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other
disease inflicting insects.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1341
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises
whether resident or non resident, within the area of authority of a
Pradeshiya Sabha to cause –
(a) Open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tyres, coconut
shells, split coconuts and any other article or receptacle or
vessel found within such premises to be removed or
destroyed ;
(b) Gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to
be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth
flow of water ;
(c) All water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to
be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as to
make it mosquito-proof and insect proof and thereby
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects ;
(d) Any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept
in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes
and disease inflicting insects ;
(e) Any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to be
emptied and cleaned at least once in every week ;
(f) Measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected
in the drains found in such premises by allowing free flow
of water and with regular maintenance ;
(g) Shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation
other than those grown for the purpose of food or for
ornamental purposes and found within a range of five loss
meters from any building within such premises which is
used as a dwelling place, to be removed in entirety ;
(h) All quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other
pits with in such premises and used for any other purpose,
to be maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting
collected in them ;
(i) The removal and destruction of land grown ornamental
plants and aquatic plant commonly known as “Diya
parandel”, “Penda pasi”. Telpasi or any other plants or
aquatic plants found within such premises which may
facilitate the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting
insects and prevention of the floating of such plants along
any water course, by the erection of suitable barriers ;
(j) Any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in
such premises and its surroundings to be maintained and
kept in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes ;
(k) Take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected
in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other place
within such area.
4. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any officer
authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day between
6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. enter any premises within the area of
authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha and inspect such premises to
ensure the following :-
(i) Whether such premises is a breeding place for
mosquitoes ;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied
with the provisions of the By-laws ;
(iii) Where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding
of and destory the mosquitoes, what such measures are
; and
(iv) Whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises
was a success.
5. (i) The Chairman or any officer authorized in writing for
the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises,
if necessary, require the owner or occupier of such
premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary
to destroy the mosquitoes and eradicate the conditions
favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a premises to whom a written
notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply with
such notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises
shall, without the written approval of the Chairman,
construct any well, tank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental showers or any other structure where water
can get collected or stored ;
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the
provisions of paragraph (i) of this by-law, the Chairman
shall, by a written notice served on the owner or
occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such
well, tank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental shower
or structure with specified material or destroy otherwise
or alter same in the manner specified in such notice
within the period specified in such notice.
(iii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession
of any premsies and if notice specified in by-law 5 or
by-law 6 is duly served on one of them, all the
co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to
comply with the requirements of such notice or for
non-performance of the requirement of such notice.
(iv) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom
a written notice has been served under by-law 5 or by-
law 6, fails to comply with the requirements of such
written notice, the Chairman or any officer authorized

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1342
for the purpose by him in writing may, enter such
premises at any reasonable time of the day between
6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. with any assistants or servants
and carry out or cause to be carried out the work or
measures specified in such notice.
(v) Where any work or measures specified in a written
notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises
under by-law 5 or by-law 6 has been carried out by the
Chairman or any officer authorized by him in writing,
the expenses incurred in carrying out such work shall be
payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha by such owner or
occupier of such premises. The owner or occupier of
the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date
of a request under the hand of the Chairman for the
payment of such expenses, make such payment to then
Pradeshiya Sabha if he fails to make such payment as
requested the provisions of the Part VIII of the
Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these
by-laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Pradeshiya Sabhas
Act.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these by-laws –
“Authorized Officer” shall mean any officer in a Pradeshiya
Sabha authorized in writing by the Chairman of such
Pradeshiya Sabha ;
“Chairman” shall mean the Chairman of the Mirigama
Pradeshiya Sabha ;
“Disease inflicting Insects” shall mean Mosquitoes and other
insects which carries diseases.
“Occupier” shall mean a person in occupation of any premises
or having the charge, management or control thereof,
whether on his own account or as an agent of any other ;
“Owner” shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or
any person who has any right to the rent or produce of
the premises ;
“Premises” shall mean, any land, house, building or any
construction or any well, being used or abandoned or any
abandoned ship, container or vehicle and also includes
any pond, tank or any bank of any lake, water course,
drain or river.
11-1072/2
Budgets
SRI JAYAWARDANAPURA  KOTTE  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL
Programme budget – 2013
NOTICE under section 212(b) of the Municipal Council for the year 2013 will be open to the public in the office of the Municipal Council
Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte, during working  hours from 30th November, 2012.
JANAKA RANAW AKA,
Mayor,
Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte Municipal Council.
Sri Jayawardanapura Kotte Municipal Council,
Rajagiriya,
30th November, 2012.
11–1003
Miscellaneous Notices
DICKWELLA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Assessment Taxes for Y ear - 2013
IT has been noticed to the public that the following proposal is
seconded under the decision No. 6.1.5(1) of the meeting held on
28th August, 2013, by the Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
It has been further noticed that the tax should be paid in four
equal installments for the quartes which end on 31st March, 30th
June, 30th September and 31st December of year 2013.
If the total tax for 2013 is paid before 31st of January, 2013, to
the Pradeshiya Sabha office 10% discount will be given from the
total amount and if the tax for the quarter is paid before the last day

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1343
of the first month of the quarter, to the Pradeshiya Sabha office 5%
discount will be given.
KRISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
PROPOSAL
It is to be accepted that, year 2012 annual values of all the
houses, buildings, lands and huts in Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha
area, according to the authority given to the Pradeshiya Sabha by
the sub-article (1), in article 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15,
1987 for the year 2013 also.
To charge 6% of the annual value as a tax, for year 2012 according
to the above authority, obtained by sub article (1) of acticle 134 in
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
It is proposed to call to order for paying tax by four equal
installments for quarters ending on 31st March, 30th June, 30th
September and 31st December according to the orders of 6th sub
article of 134
th article in Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
11–977/1
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA  - DICKWELLA
An Acre Tax for the Year 2013
IT has been noticed to the public that the following proposal is
seconded under the decision No. 6.1.5(3) of the meeting held on
28th August, 2012, in Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha for laying down
and charging acre tax for the lands not exceeding following sizes,
under a regular or permanent cultivations and situated in the areas
of non charging the tax by the Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha, according
to 3rd sub article of article 134 in Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15,
1987.
Size of the land Amount of tax
per year
Rs. .
1. Areas where the size of the land is less than 50
5 hectares and not less than one hectare
2. Areas where the size of the land is larger 10
than or equal to 5 hectares
Further actions will be taken to give discounts, when paying
annual tax totally, according to the article 134(7) of this act as
follows :
(a) 10% discount will be given, if the tax for the whole year is
paid before 31st January, 2013.
(b) 5% discount will be given, if the tax is paid in installments
and it is paid during the 1st month of the quarter.
K
RISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
11–977/2
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA   SABHA - DICKWELLA
Charging Tax on Selling Lands - 2013
IT has been noticed to the public, that the following proposal is
seconded under the decision No.  6.1.5(2) of the meeting held on
28th August, 2012, in Pradeshiya Sabha, for charging a tax of 1% to
the Pradeshiya Sabha - Dickwella, from the amount of money,
obtained by selling a land by a seller, or an auctioneer or a broaker
or one of his employees, or his sub representative, when selling a
land in Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha aera, in a public auction or any
other way, under the sub article (1) in article 154(1) of Act, No. 15,
1987
K
RISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
11–977/3
––––––––––––––––
DICKWELLA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Tax on Undeveloped lands - 2013
IT has been noticed to the public, that the following proposal is
seconded under the decision No.  6.1.5(7) of the meeting held on
28th August, 2012, by the Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
It has been further noticed that, the tax for undeveloped lands
for the year 2013, should be paid before 31st March of 2013.
K
RISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1344
PROPOSAL
According to the authority, given to the Pradeshiya Sabha under
the 1st sub-article of article 153 in Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15-
1987, It is proposed to order to charge a tax of 2% from the income
of a such land, which is situated in Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha area
and suitable to construct buildings or suitable for a freequent
cultivation and if,
(a) No buildings ; or
(b) No regular definite cultivation ; or
(c) When the area aquired by the building of the land is not
2/3 from the whole land, it is less than the average of the
whole land and to consider it as an undeveloped land and
to charge above tax for the year 2013, before 31st March,
2013.
Accordingly it is proposed to charge a 2% tax of the value of the
land, after identifying such lands, situated from Beliwatta to
Kemagoda within the area of 100m on either sides of the road and
the beach.
11–977/7
––––––––––––––––
DICKWELLA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Tax on the Act of Entertainment and Acting - 2013
ACCORDING to the authority given to the Pradeshiya Sabha -
Dickwella under the 1st sub article of 2nd article of entertainment
tax act, it is proposed to lay and charge a tax of 20% from a payment,
paid for participating an entertainment activity, mentioned in that
act in the administration area of Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
Further it has been noticed to the public, that the proposal, to
release the shows, in the temples or schools for developing libraries
and other development activities from the entertainment tax
according to the approval of the acting authority on the acceptable
evidences, is seconded and the entertainment tax, charged from
cinema halls should be in the level of 7.5%, according to the honorable
priminister is also seconded under the decision No. 6.1.5(a) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha meeting held on 28th August, 2012.
K
RISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Dickwella.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
11–977/8
DICKWELLA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Tax for Vehicles and Animals - 2013
IT has been noticed to the public that the following proposal is
seconded under the decision No. 6.1.5(11) of the meeting held on
28th August, 2012 by the Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
It has been further noticed that, a tax should be charged for year
2013 from a person who owns a vehicle or an animal comes under
this tax in Pradeshiya Sabha area for keeping it for 30 days.
K
RISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Dickwella.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
PROPOSAL
According to the authority, given under the orders of fourth
sub-register and under the article 148 (should be read with the
article 147) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15-1987, it has been
proposed to charge a tax from each person, who owns a vehicle or
an animal, mentioned in 1st column of the following sub list according
to the mentioned tax in the 2nd Column of it, for the year 2013 in
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha area.
Sub list Rs. cents
1. A vehicle which does not belong to following 25  0
mentioned vehicles, motor car, motor tricar,
motor lorry, motor bicycles, cart, Jean rickshaw,
bicycle, tricycle
2. For every bicycle or tricycle or bicycle car or cart -
(a) Using for trade activities 18  0
(b) Using for non trade activities 4  0
For each cart 20  0
For each hand cart 10  0
For each rickshaw 7 50
For each horse, pony or mule 15  0
For each elephant 50   0
Toy vehicles having wheels less than 26 inches diameter, wheel
barrows, hand carts used for trade activities in private places
only, hand carts not used for trade activities will be free from
above tax.
A "trade car" can be defined as use for selling activity or transporting
printed or stationary items for a business or an industry.

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1345
TAX FROM VEHICLE PARKS DURING FESTIVAL SEASON
Name of the vehicle Charge
Rs. cts
1. A bus 100 0
2. A lorry 100 0
3. A van 50 0
4. A hand tractor 50 0
5. A three wheeler 30 0
6. Motor cycle 20 0
11–977/9
––––––––––––––––
DICKWELLA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Charging fair charges and renting the lands of
Pradeshiya Sabha - 2013
ACCORDING to the authority, given to the Pradeshiya Sabha by
article 126(xii) (which should be read with No. 122 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15, 1987, under the 02nd
article of the Local Government institution accepted secondary
constitution No. 06-1952, obtained by honorable minister, a special
Gazette dated 1988.08.23 was prepared and its secoundary
constitutions are accepted by meeting of Dickwella Pradeshiya
Sabha on 23rd September, 2008 and according to 33rd secondary
constitution of it, it has been notice to the public that the suitability
of charging following charges from the public fair under the decision
No. 6.1.5(10) of the meeting held on 28th August, 2012.
K
RISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Dickwella.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
TAX FROM THE FAIR (INCLUDE V AT AND NATION
BUILDING TAX)
Rs. cts.
01. For a vegetable hut with a cover 150 0
02. For a vegetable hut without a cover 100 0
03. For a covered hut with grocery items 150 0
04. For an opened hut with grocery items 100 0
05. For a fruit hut without a cover 100 0
06. For a textile hut with a cover 150 0
07. For a textile hut without a cover 100 0
08. If selling items in a vehicle (for vehicle) 100 0
09. Other minor business 50 0
Renting lands of Pradeshiya Sabha -
* For trade purposes (without vat and 2,000 0
N. B. tax)
* For non trade purposes (without vat and 1,000 0
N. B. tax)
11–977/10
PASGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of Business Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that following proposal was unanimously
passed by the Sabha under decision No. 04(05)(IV) at the meeting
held on 20th July, 2012.
M
AHINDA EASW ARAGE,
Chairman,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
20th July, 2012.
PROPOSAL
As per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by Sub-section
(1) of section 152 of Pradeshiya Sahha Act, No. 15 of 1987 or under
provisions of sub statute made under the said Act, the Sabha has
proposed to impose and recover a business tax on any business
which is not a profession or does not need to pay any industrial tax
under Section 150 of the said Act and functioning in the area of
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha, mentioned in the first column and amount
of tax mentioned in the second column of the following Schedule for
the year 2013. It is further notified that any person who is subject
to this tax should pay such tax to the Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha
before 31st of April, 2013.
SCHEDULE  No. 01
Column I Column II
Returns of the business for the year Rs. cts.
1. When not exceeding Rs.6,000 Nil
2. From Rs. 6,001 to Rs. 12,000 90 0
3. From Rs. 12,001 to Rs. 18,750 180 0
4. From Rs. 18,751 to Rs. 50,000 250 0
5. From Rs. 50,001 to Rs. 75,000 360 0
6. From Rs. 75,001 to Rs. 90,000 500 0
7. From Rs. 90,001 to Rs. 110,000 750 0
8. From Rs. 110,000 to Rs. 130000 1,000 0
9. From Rs. 130,001 to Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
10. From Rs. 150,001 to Rs. 170,000 1,500 0
11. From Rs. 170,001 to 190,000 2,000 0
12. When over Rs. 190,000 3,000 0
SCHEDULE No. 02
1. Maintenance of a place of storing bricks for sale
2. Maintenance of a place of storing tiles for sale
3. Maintenance of a place of selling firewood
4. Maintenance of a place of storing/selling empty bottles
5. Maintenance of a place of storing/selling empty gunny bags
6. Maintenance of a place of storing /selling over 01 grouse of
cool drinks
7. Maintenance of a place of storing lime/lime stones for sale

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1346
8. Maintenance of a place of storing newspapers/papers for
sale
9. Maintenance of a place of storing animal food over 01 ton
10. Maintenance of a place of storing artificial fertilizer for sale
11. Maintenance of a place of storing cement for sale
12. Maintenance of a place of selling furniture
13. Maintenance of a place of storing tea powder over 03 hundred
weights for sale
14. Maintenance of a place of selling computers and computer
accessories
15. Maintenance of a communication center
16. Maintenance of a place of collecting plantains and arecanut
17. Maintenance of a place of selling offering items
18. Maintenance of a place of .
19. Maintenance of a place of physical exercises of fitness center
20. Maintenance of a place of providing consultancy services
21. Maintenance of a place of selling fancy items
22. Maintenance of a place of selling electric equipments
23. Maintenance of a place of hiring loud speakers
24. Maintenance of a place of selling radios/ televisions/ sewing
machines/ bicycles
25. Maintenance of a place of selling garments
26. Maintenance of a place of selling leather products
27. Maintenauce of a place of selling aluminum/plastic items
28. Maintenance of a place of hiring festivel items
29. Maintenance of an agency of sewing machines
30. Maintenance of a book shop
31. Maintenance of a place of selling spare parts of motor
vehicles/motor cycles/tractors/bicycles .
32. Maintenance of a place of selling stationery
33. Maintenance of a place of selling glass or glass items
34. Maintenance of a place of selling ayurvedic drugs
35. Maintenance of a place of selling western drugs (pharmacy)
36. Maintenance of a place of providing ayurvedic treatment
37. Maintenance of a place of providing western medical
treatment
38. Maintenance of a place of producing earthen ware
39. Maintenance of a place of producing or selling funeral items
40. Maintenance of a place of selling betel leaves
41. Maintenance of a place of selling ready made garments
42. Maintenance of a place of selling motor cycles/ hand tractors/
three wheelers
43. Maintenance of a place of photo copying
44. Maintenance of a place of selling toys
45. Maintenance of a place of taping or writing CDs
46. Maintenance of a record bar
47. Maintenance of a place of selling lotteries
48. Maintenance of a computer training center
49. Maintenance of a place of storing cadjan for sale
50. Maintenance of a foreign employment agency
51. Maintenance of a place of collecting raw tea tender leaves
52. Maintenance of a Juki machine training center
53. Maintenance of a place of selling newspapers
54. Maintenance of a place of showing video films
55. Maintenance of a cinema
56. Maintenance of an authorized batting center
57. Maintenance of a place of selling iron items/ water pump
equipments/ brass equipments
58. Maintenance of a place of purchasing and selling domestic
materials such as cinnamon/ pepper / rubber
59. Maintenance of a place of selling sawn timber including
coconut timber
60. Maintenance of a place of playing table tennis
61. Maintenance of a place of hiring electric generators or electric
equipments
62. Maintenance of a place of selling ceramic wares
63. Maintenance of a place of storing cigarette for whole sale
64. Maintenance of a place of selIing concrete or cement products
65. Maintenance of a place of selling plastic products or name
boards
66. Maintenance of a grocery
67. Maintenance of a place of keeping ornamental fish
68. Maintenance of a place of storing tyres and tubes for sale
69. Maintenance of a place of selling mobile phones
70. Maintenance of a place of selling motor vehicles
71. Maintenance of a place of cutting and polishing gems
72. Maintenance of a medical channeling center
73. Maintenance of a place of selling telephone prepaid cards
74. Maintenance of a place of selling paints
75. Maintenance of a foreign tour agency
76. Maintenance of a place of selling building materials
77. Maintenance of a financial institution
78. Maintenance of a place of storing boxes of matches over 01
gross for sale
79. Maintenance of a place of selling cigars/beedi
80. Maintenance of a place of selling shoes
81. Maintenance of a place of selling jewellery
82. Maintenance of a place of storing and selling metal, sand and
bricks
83. Maintenance of an Insurance agency
84. Maintenance of a medical laboratory
85. Maintenance of a place of selling arrack/beer
86. Maintenance of a place of selling fertilizer
87. Maintenance of a place of selling tiles
88. Maintenance of a press operated manually
89. Maintenance of a press operated by machines
90. Maintenance of a place of storing acids for sale
91. Maintenance of a place of storing agro chemicals for sale
92. Maintenance of a place of storing fire works for sale
93. Maintenance of a place of storing or selling gas
94. Maintenance of a place of selling agro chemicals
95. Maintenance of a telecommunication transmission tower
96. Maintenance of a filling station
97. Maintenance of a tea factory
98. Maintenance of a super market
99. Maintenance of a place of providing astrology services
100. Maintenance of a place of designing house plans
101. Maintenance of a rice mill
102. Maintenance of a metal crusher
103. Maintenance of a garment factory where over 25 servants
are employed
104. Maintenance of a place of selling cool drinks
105. Maintenance of a place of storing milk powder and tinned
food items for sale
106. Maintenance of a place of selling tyres and tubes

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1347
107. Maintenance of a place of selling floor tiles and bathroom
sets
108. Maintenance of a construction firm
109. Maintenance of a place of selling ornamental items
110. Maintenance of a place of selling ornamental jewellery
111. Maintenance of a place of sewing curtains/carpets
112. Maintenance of an agency post office
113. Maintenance of a place of selling mobile phone spare parts
114. Maintenance of a place of selling baby garments and
equipments
115. Maintenance of a place of checking vehicle smoke
116. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing concrete cubes
for the construction of roads
117. Maintenance of a place of providing funeral services
118. Maintenance of a motor vehicle service center
119. Maintenance of a place of whole selling chilies, salt and
other perishable food items
120. Maintenance of a place of bottling and selling drinking
water
121. Maintenance of a place of retail selling spices, rice, sugar,
milk powder
122. Maintenance of a place of whole selling spices, rice, sugar,
milk powder
123. Maintenance of a driving learning school
124. Maintenance of a private tuition institute (children over 25).
11–990/3
––––––––––––––
PASGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of permit fees under Public Performance
Ordinance for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that following proposal was unanimously
passed by the Sabha under decision No. 04(05)(VII) at the meeting
held on 20th July, 2012.
M
AHINDA EASW ARAGE,
Chairman,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
Urubokka,
20th July, 2012.
PROPOSAL
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha has proposed to impose and recover
a permit fee as per the section 3 of Public Pefromance Ordinance -
the 176th chapter as mentioned in the following schedule for the
year 2013.
S
CHEDULE
Rs. cts.
Per 01 day 250 0
For every exceeding day up to a calendar month 25 0
For a period of one month or more 1,000 0
11–990/5
––––––––––––––
PASGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of Acreage Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that following proposal was unanimously
passed by the Sabha under decision No. 04(05)(V) at the meeting
held on 20th July, 2012.
MAHINDA EASW ARAGE,
Chairman,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
Urubokka,
20th July, 2012.
PROPOSAL
(a) As per the powers vested by Sub-section (1) of Section
146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, to accept the
valuation of every land which is situated in the area of
Pasgoda pradeshiya Sabha and subject to acreage tax for
the year 2012 as the valuation for the year 2013 too.
(b) As per the powers vested by Sub-section (3) of section
134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and under the
first sub order of sub-section, to impose and recover an
acreage tax of Rs. 10 for the year 2013 on every and each
hectare of every land containing in extent 05 acre or more
and Rs. 50 on every land containing in extent not less than
01 hectare but less than 05 hectare situated in the area
published as a special area by the Hon. Minister of Local
government for the purpose of imposing and recovering
acreage tax by an order published in the gazette dated
10.03.1989.
As per the powers vested by sub-section (6) of section 134
Sabha has proposed that every person subject to this tax should
pay these taxes to the Pradeshiya Sabha of Pasgoda in four quarters
ending respectively on 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and
31st December in 2013.
11–990/6

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1348
PUTTALAM   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Recovery of Charges for each Activity Payable to the
Pradeshiya Sabha - 2013
IT is hereby notified to the General Public that the resolution shown
in the following Schedule was passed by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha under Decision No. 06:viii at the meeting held on 24th
September, 2012 by the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
R. P. D
ILUCK SUSIRA PATHIRAGE,
Chairman,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha,
Madurankuliya,
27th September, 2012.
THE  SCHEDULE
The amount of charges given against the following each activity
shall be payable to the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Rs. cts.
1. Renewal of library membership - Child 25 0
- Adult 30 0
2. Application fees for street lines and non 600 0
vesting certificates
3. Application fees for the certification of plans 300 0
4. Building application 500 0
5. Library application fees 50 0
6. Application fees for the transfer of property 300 0
ownership
7. Issue a certificate of conformity 300 0
8. Application fees for the approval of sub divisions 300 0
9. Changing leasehold of properties - Colombo Road 50,000 0
10. Changing leasehold of properties - 25,000 0
Thoduwawa Road
11. Application fees for changing leasehold of properties 300 0
12. Changing leasehold of properties - Between relatives 10,000 0
11–993/5
–––––––––––––––
PUTTALAM   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Taxes on Vehicles and Animals
for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified to the General Public that the resolution shown
in the following Schedule was passed by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha under Decision No. 06:vii at the meeting held on 24th
September, 2012.
It is hereby further informed that the persons within the limits of
the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha who possess a vehicle or an animal
subjected to the above tax shall pay the taxes due to the Puttalam
Pradeshiya Sabha imposed on such vehicles or animals for the Year
2012 as soon as on completion of 30 days of such possession.
R. P. D
ILUK SUSIRA PATHIRAGE,
Chairman,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha,
Madurankuliya,
27th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha hereby propose to impose and levy a
tax for the Year 2013 in respect of persons who possess any vehicle
or an animal within the limits of Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha as per
the powers vested to a Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Section 147 of
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 be read with Section 148
and Fourth Schedule of the same Act and the tax shall be levied on
behalf of persons who possess a vehicle mentioned under Column I
set out in the following Schedule and shall similar to the sum set out
in the corresponding entry in Column II.”.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs.  cts.
01. (i) For Motor Vehicles, Motor Tricycles, Lorries, 25  0
Motor Bikes, Cart, Charitable rickshows,
Bicycles or any vehicle other than a Tricycle
(ii) For every Bicycle or Tricycle or Bicycle
cars or Bicycle Carts or Bicycle Carts –
(a) If employed in a business purpose 18  0
(b) If employed in a non business purpose 4  0
(iii) For every Cart 20  0
(iv) For every Hand Cart 10  0
(v) For every Rickshow 7 50
(vi) For every horse, pony or mule 15  0
(vii) For every Tusker 50  0
02. Child vehicles which consist wheels lower to 26 inches diameter,
wheel barrows, hand carts employed for business purposes only
in private places and hand carts which are not employed for
business purposes are exempted from the tax.
11–993/3

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1349
PUTTALAM   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Taxes on Businesses and Professions
for the Y ear - 2013
IT is hereby notified to the General Public that the resolution shown
in the following Schedule was passed by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha under Decision No. 06:xi at the meeting held on 24th September,
2012.
It is further notified that the taxes on the businesses and professions
imposed for the year 2013 shall be paid to the office of the Pradeshiya
Sabha before 30th April of that year.
P. P. D
ILUCK SUSIRA PATHIRAGE,
Chairman,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha,
Madurankuliya,
27th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha hereby proposes to levy following
Annual Taxes for the Year 2013 in Column II on the businesses and
professions denoting in Column I within Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha
division according to the annual income of each business and
profession, under the powers vested to Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of
Sub-section (i) of Section 150 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 and those who subject to that tax it should be paid to Puttalam
Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th April, 2013.
Column I Column II
Annual Income Rs. cts.
(i) Not exceeding Rs. 6,000 –
(ii) Exceeding Rs. 6,000 and not exceeding 90 0
Rs. 12,000
(iii) Exceeding Rs. 12,000 and not exceeding 180 0
Rs. 18,750
(iv) Exceeding Rs. 18,750 and not exceeding 360 0
Rs. 75,000
(v) Exceeding Rs. 75,000 and not exceeding 1,200 0
Rs. 150,000
(vi) Exceeding Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
Nature of the Business :
1. Commission Agent,
2. Auctioneers,
3. Brokers (Land, vehicles),
4. Money Investors,
5. Pawn brokers,
6. Contractors,
7. Suppliers,
8. Driving Schools,
9. Lottery sales agent,
10. Insurance agent,
11. Foreign liquor sales centres and chinese restaurants,
12. Beer sales centres,
13. Motor vehicles sales centres (Motor bicycles and motor cars),
14. Money lenders,
15. Foreign employment agents,
16. Financial institutions, banks, insurance companies,
17. Private medical institutions and nursing homes (local and
western),
18. Lawyers and Notary Officers,
19. Surveyors,
20. Auditors,
21. Architects,
22. Maintaining of telecommunication towers,
23. Prawn farms,
24. Garment factories,
25. Salt farms,
26. Tile factories,
27. Roofing sheet factories,
28. Coir factories,
29. Wood mills,
30. Rice mills,
31. Prawns feed sales centres,
32. Ice factories,
33. Poultry farms,
34. Metal crushers,
35. Producting of sea oyesters,
36. Collecting iron debris,
37. Tutors,
38. Purchasing refuse of coir and exporting water mixing prepared
cakes of refuse of coir,
39. Producting of coir,
40. Producting of toys,
41. Pruchasing coir and exporting compacted coir,
42. Wood mills (Running with machines and vehicle engines),
43. Maintaining an animal farm –
(i) Poultry farm,
(ii) Pig farm,
(iii) Goat farm.
44. Prawns feed and medicine sales centres,
45. Fuel filling centres,
46. Florists,
47. Producting and repairing fibre boats,
48. Collecting coconuts for export,
49. Supplying heavy machinery on contract basis.
11–993/6
–––––––––––––––––
PUTTALAM   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Notice Board Charges for the year - 2013
IT is hereby notified to the general public that the resolution shown
in the following Schedule was adopted by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha under the Decision No. 06:x at the meeting held on 24th
September, 2012.

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1350
It is hereby informed that when a notice board is displaced
within the limit of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha of the Puttalam
District by any institute or any person, the following charges should
be paid in terms of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
R. P. D
ILUK SUSIRA PATHIRAGE,
Chairman,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha,
Madurankuliya,
27th September, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
01. For a square feet of the permanent hoarding 50 0
for the current year
02. Clothes or digital printing - for the period of 25 0
3 months or less
03. For a square feet of an advertisements created 75 0
making use of walls or parapet walls
11–993/4
–––––––––––––––
PUTTALAM   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Rates for the year - 2013
IT is hereby notified to the General Public that the resolution shown
in the following Schedule was passed by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha under Decision No. 06:v at the meeting held on 24th September,
2012.
It is hereby further informed that the rates imposed for the year
2013 shall be paid in four equal installments to the Regional Office
for quarters ending on 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and
31st December, respectively.
A discount of ten percentum shall be paid of the amount of any
annual rate is paid on or before 31st day of January, 2013 or such
rate is payable in instalments a discount of five percentum shall be
paid of the amount of the instalment of rate due, if such amount is
paid within the first month of the period which the instalment of
such rate is due.
R. P. D
ILUCK SUSIRA PATHIRAGE,
Chairman,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha,
Madurankuliya,
27th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha hereby proposes to make an order, to
accept annual amount of all houses, buildings, lands situated within
the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha as per the powers vested to
Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Sub-section (i) of Section 146 of the
Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.
To impose and levy a rate of six percentum on the annual amount
of items mentioned above for the year 2013 as per the powers vested
to a Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Sub-section 1 of Section 134 of the
said Act ; and
To pay above rate in four equal instalments to the Puttalam
Pradeshiya Sabha for quarters ending on 31st March, 30th June,
30th September and 31st December as per the provisions laid down
in Sub-section 06 of Section 134 of the same Act.
11–993/1
–––––––––––––––
PUTTALAM   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Acreage Tax for the year - 2013
IT is hereby notified to the General Public that the resolution shown
in the following Schedule was passed by the Puttalam Pradeshiya
Sabha under Decision No. 06:vi at the meeting held on 24th September,
2012.
It is hereby further informed that the Acreage Tax imposed for
the year 2013 shall be paid in four equal installments to the Regional
Office for quarters ending on 31st March, 30th June, 30th September
and 31st December, respectively.
A discount of ten percentum shall be paid of the amount of
annual acreage tax is paid on or before the 31st day of January, 2013
or such tax is payable in instalments a discount of five percentum
shall be paid of the amount of the instalment of tax due, if such
amount is paid within the first month of the period which the
instalment of such tax is due.
R. P. D
ILUCK SUSIRA PATHIRAGE,
Chairman,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha,
Madurankuliya,
27th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha hereby proposes to make an order ;
to accept verifications for the year 2013 enforced in the year 2012 as
per the powers vested to a Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Sub-section
(01) of Section 146 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987,

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1351
(a) To impose and levy an annual acreage tax of Rs. 10 for the
year 2013 on each hectare of a land which extent five hectares
or over situated within the limits of Puttalam Pradeshiya
and which is under permanent or regular cultivation of any
kind as per the powers vested to a Pradeshiya Sabha in
terms of Section 134 of the said Act, and which is also not
exempted from the acreage tax as per section 135 of the
same Act.
(b) To impose and levy an annual acreage tax of Rs. 50 for the
year 2013 on each hectare of land which extent less than
five hectare but not less than one hectare, as the limits of
the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha has been declared by the
Minister of Local Government by order published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
under Section 4(b) dated 10th March, 1989 that to be a
special area ; and
(c) To pay above tax in four equal instalments before 31st day
of March, 30th day of June, 30th day of September and
31st day of December of the said year as per the provisions
laid down in Sub-section 06 of Section 134 of the Pradeshiya
Sabhas Act.
11–993/2
–––––––––––––––––
PASGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of fees for the Y ear - 2013
IT is hereby notified that following proposal was unanimously
passed by the Sabha under decision No. 04(05)(1) at the meeting
held on 20th July, 2012.
M
AHINDA EASW ARAGE,
Chairman,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
Urubokka,
20th July, 2012.
PROPOSAL
AS per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabhas by Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha has proposed
to impose and recover fees mentioned in the following Schedule for
the year 2013.
S
CHEDULE
Serial T ype of the job Fee to be paid
No. Rs. cts.
01 A. T. form (Deed summary form) 250  0
02 Building application fee -
(i) Within the Urban area 400  0
(ii) Beyond the Urban area 300  0
03 Fee of felling dangerous trees -
(i) For a jak tree 500  0
(ii) For other tree 350  0
04 Certificate of conformity for buildings - 600  0
for residential
construction/commercial construction for 400m
For every meter exceeding 0 50
05 Street line/non vesting certificates -
(i) Application fee 50  0
(ii) Fee for street line/non vesting certificate 450  0
06 Fee of damaging Sabha roads 1,500  0
07 Environment permit fees
(i) Questionnarie fees 300  0
(ii) Application fee 350  0
08 Land sub-division application form fee 300  0
09 Renting out lands belongs to Pradeshiya 1,000 0
Sabha for meetings and other purposes -
per day
10 Library fees -
(i) Application form fee 50  0
(ii) Bond deposit fee 250  0
(iii) In case of loss of a book obtained by
the member double as the value of the
book has to be paid
11 Preparation fee for the construction of a
boundary wall -
(i) For first 100 long meter 1,000  0
(ii) For every exceeding meter 10  0
11–990/1
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA   NAWAGATTEGAMA
Imposing Tax on Animals and Vehicles – 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public that the following resolution
made under the motion No. 173 at the General Council held on 28th
September, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama has been
passed.
It is further notified that in an instance where any vehicle or
animal subject to this tax is kept in one’s possession, on completion
of 30 days the tax for vehicle or animal imposed for the year 2013
should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama.
H. D. S
ISIRA DARMAPPRIY A,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha - Nawagattegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama,
28th September, 2012.
Serial T ype of the job Fee to be paid
No. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1352
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama proposes that every person
who keeps in his possession any vehicle or animal referred to in
Column I in the following Schedule should pay a tax for the year
2013 as specified in the corresponding Column II in terms of powers
vested to the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 148 to be read with
Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 provisions of
the Fourth Schedule.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
01. For every vehicle other than motor cycle, motor
tricycle, motor lorry, cart, rickshaw, 25  0
bicycles, tricycle
02. For every bicycle or a tricycle, a car or a cart –
(a) If used for business purpose 18  0
(b) For bicycle not used for business purpose 4  0
03. For every cart 20  0
04. For every hand cart 10  0
05. For every rickshaw 7 50
06. For every horse, pony or mule 15  0
07. For every elephant or tusker 50  0
2. Wheeled children's vehicle with the diameter not exceeds 26
inches, wheelbarrows, hand carts used only for business
purpose and hand carts for used for business purpose are free
from the above tax.
11–994/6
––––––––––––––––––
NAWAGATTHEGAMA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Environmental Inspection Fees - Year 2013
IT is hereby notified to the general public that the following
resolution was adopted by Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha under
decision No. 172 taken at the general meeting held on 28th
September, 2012.
H. D. S
ISIRA DARMAPRIY A,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha - Nawagatthegama.
Office of Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha,
16th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya
Sabha in pursuance of Section 106 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 and section 2 and 10(1) of Part II Environmental enactment
of North Western Province No. 12 of 1990, it is hereby notified
that Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha has decided to impose and
levy an inspection fee and a licence fee in respect of business or
industries shown in schedule 01 below, relative to the amount to be
invested by each industry or business shown in schedule 02.
S
CHEDULE  NO. 01
01. Timber mills
02. Paddy mills
03. Metal quarries
04. Bakeries
05. Saw mills
06. Animal farms
07. Brick Industries
08. Welding shops
09. Motor garages
10. Rice processing centers
11. Coconut husk based industries
12. Vehicle services
13. Fuel filling stations.
S
CHEDULE NO. 02
Investing Amount Inspection Fee Fee for
Environmental
Licenses
Rs. Rs.
01. Up to Rs. 100,000  250 0 1,250 0
02. From Rs. 100,001 -
Rs. 200,000 500 0 1,250 0
03. From Rs. 200,001 -
Rs. 500,000 1,250 0 1,250 0
04. From Rs. 500,001 -
Rs. 1,000,000 2,500 0 1,250 0
05. Over Rs. 1,000,000 5,000 0 1,250 0
11–994/5
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA   NAWAGATTHEGAMA
By-law on crating parking within the limits of Pradeshiya
Sabha in terms of By-law on parkings vehicles
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following
resolution moved under resolution No. 176 has been passed at the
General Council held at 28.09.2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Nawagattegama adopted.
H. D. S
ISIRA DARMAPPRIY A,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha - Nawagatthegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagatthegama,
28th September, 2012.

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1353
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagatthegama proposes to impose and
levy an annual license duty of Rs. 600 in respect of vehicles parked
in places which have been published as suitable parking places by
an adoption by the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagaththegama in terms of
power vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha by, By-law No. (4) and (5)
of Stander By-law of parking vehicles accepter by the Pradeshiya
Sabha which has been adopted by the North Western Provincial
Council and published in the Part IV(a) in the Extraordinary Gazette
Paper No. 1,703/18 dated 28.04.2011 of the Democratic Socialist
Repubilc of Sri Lanka which was made by the Minister-in-charge
of Local Government in the North Western Province and published
in Part IV(A) of Gazette Paper No. 1,663 dated 16.07.2010 of
Democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka in terms of powers
vested in the Minister of subject of Local Government in the North
Western Province in terms of Sub-section (1) of Section (2) of
Provincial (Incidental provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 to be read
with Sub-section (1) of section (2) of Local Authorities (Standard
By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952 and in teams of powers vested in the
Pradeshiya Sabha by section (15) of the said act to impose and levy
a daily charge of Rs. 50 for the year 2012 in respect of vehicles
parked with the purpose of earning an income in any road or street
within the limits of Pradshiya Sabha and charges imposed under
By-law No. (5) should be paid before 31st of April in 2012 and the
charges imposed under By-law No. (15) should be paid at the time
of parking vehicles.
11–994/8
––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA   NAWAGATTHEGAMA
Providing parking places for parking vehicle within the
limits of Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of By-law on parking
vehicles within the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following
resolution moved under resolution No. 178 has been passed at the
General Council held at 28.09.2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha
Nawagattegama adopted.
H. D. S
ISIRA DARMAPPRIY A,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha - Nawagatthegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagatthegama,
28th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama proposes that the places set
out in the following schedule No. 1, are as suitable public places set
for parking vehicles within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Nawagaththegama in terms of powers vested in the Pradeshiya
Sabha by, By-law No. 2(1) of Standard By-law of "Parking vehicles
within the limits of Pradeshiya Sabha" accepted by the Pradeshiya
Sabha Nawagaththegama which has been adopted by the North
Western Provincial Council and published in the Part IV(A) in the
Extraordinary Gazette paper No. 1,703/18 dated 28.04.2011 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka which was made by the
Minister in charge of Local Government in the North Western
Province and published in the Part IV(A) of Gazette paper
No. 1,663 dated 16.07.2010 of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka in terms of powers vested in the Minister of subject of Local
Government in the North Western Province in terms of Sub-section
(1) of section (2) of Local Authorities (Standard By-law) Act, No.
06 of 1952.
S
CHEDULE
1. Nearby Me Oya
2. Garment Junction, Welewawa
3. Thammannawatiya Junction, Welewawa
4. Konkadawala Junction, Mullegama
5. In front of the Clock Tower, Nawagaththegama
6. In front of the bus stand, Nawagaththegama
7. Gallbokkuwa Junction, Galgamuwa road
8. Rambakanayagama Junction, Kirimatiyawa
9. Mahaandarawa Junction, Palugaswawa
11–994/10
––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA   NAWAGATTHEGAMA
Declaration of Unpleasant, Dangerous and Unpleasant and
Dangerous Businesses - Year 2013
IT is hereby notified to the general public that the following
resolution was adopted by Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha under
decision No. 175 taken at general meeting held on 28th September,
2012.
H. D. S
ISIRA DARMAPPRIY A,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha - Nawagattegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama,
16th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby notified that Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha
has decided in terms of Sub-section 1 of section 03 of Local
Government (Standard By-law) Act to accept and declare the
industries mentioned in schedules 1, 2 and 3 respectively of Standard
By-law on unpleasant, dangerous and unpleasant and dangerous
business affairs which was made by Hon. Minister-in-charge of
subject of Local Government of North Western Province and then
published in Part IV(A) of the Gazette of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,663, 16.07.2010 and then declared in

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1354
Part IV(A) of extra special Gazette No. 1,703/18 of 28.04.2011 to
the effect that it was adopted by North Western Provincial Council
in terms of powers vested in him under Sub-section 1 of Section 2
of Local Government (Standard By-law) Act, (Chapter 261) of
No. 06 of 1952 read with Chapter (a) of Sub-section 1 of Section 2
of Provincial Council (Incidental Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
as unpleasant, dangerous and unpleasant and dangerous businesses.
S
CHEDULE 01 - UNPLEASANT BUSINESSES
1. Producing fertilizer or organic manure and keeping them for
sale
2. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
3. Maintenance of a veterinary infirmary
4. Keeping perishable food for selling at whole sale price
5. Keeping over 150kg of dried fish or salted fish
6. Adding salt or ice or meat or drying them
7. Producing coconut charcoal or timber charcoal
8. Drying tobacco
9. Producing animal foods
10. Producing punac
11. Boiling of bowels or blood
12. Producing soap
13. Grinding or keeping animal bones
14. Keeping new or old metal
15. Keeping metal remains
16. Producing furniture
17. Producing cane items
18. Running a carpentry shop
19. Producing syrup or fruits
20. Producing sweets
21. Soaking or stinking coconut husks
22. Producing brushes
23. Producing tooth brushes
24. Collecting toddy
25. Producing vinegar
26. Sawing timber
27. Producing paint, varnish or distemper
28. Producing soda
29. Dyeing fibres
30. Producing leather items
31. Producing tinned fruits, fish or other meals
32. Powdering of coffee, grain etc.
33. Producing candles
34. Producing camphor
35. Producing washing blue
36. Producing sealing wax
37. Producing cosmetics
38. Producing school chalks
39. Re-building of tryes
40. Vulcanizing of tyre tubes
41. Producing cement ware asbestos ware
42. Producing sand paper
43. Producing plastic items
44. Burning bricks
45. Producing handlooms
46. Producing roofing tiles
47. Selling empty fertilizer bags, lime bags, flour bags and other
bags
48. Producing cement blocks by using machines
S
CHEDULE 02 - DANGEROUS BUSINESSES
1. Granite mining or blasting
2. Producing vegetable oil
3. Producing coconut oil
4. Producing or storing box of matches
5. Producing methylated spirit
6. Producing tea chests
7. Producing coir or other fibre
8. Producing goods from coir or other fibres
9. Keeping hey
10. Storing of used clothes
11. Producing or repairing jewelleries
12. Sawing timber by using machines
13. Running an industry in which machineries are used
14. Keeping empty gunnies and bottles
15. Repairing of foot bicycles or motor bikes
16. Keeping used papers and newspapers
17. Scattered printing
18. Storing of fireworks items and crackers
S
CHEDULE 03 - UNPLEASENT AND DANGEROUS BUSINESSES
1. Fabric printing or dyeing
2. Producing fireworks items
3. Repairing and re-charging of batteries
4. Welding of metal
5. Repairing of motor vehicles
6. Servicing of motor vehicles
7. Running a tinkering workshop
8. Manufacturing of vehicle bodies
11–994/7
––––––––––––––––
MAHO  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Assessment Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. 7.8.1 at the general meeting held on 28th
September, 2012 by Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
It is further notified that said  tax should be paid to the office of
Pradeshiya Sabha in 4 equal instalments before 31st March, 30th
June, 30th September and 31st December.
If total rate for the year 2013 is paid before 31st January, 2013,
a discount of 10% of total rate and if rate for each quarter is paid
before last date of first month of each quarter to Pradeshiya Sabha,
a discount of 5% will be paid.
H. M. R. R. K. M
EDAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th October, 2012.

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1355
RESOLUTION
It is hereby proposed that the valuation made in the year 2009
of the houses, buildings, tenements and lands situated within Maho
Pradeshiya Sabha limits should be accepted for the year 2013 by
virtue of powers vested in Maho Pradeshiya Sabha by Sub-section
1 of Section 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
That, a rate of 3% of the annual value of the said property
should be imposed and recovered for the year 2013 by virtue of
powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by Sub-section 1 of Section
134 of said Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
And that, it should be directed that payment be made in four
equal instalments before 31st March, 30th June, 30th September
and 31st December.
11–1002/1
––––––––––––––––
MAHO  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Acreage Tax - Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. 7.8.5 at general meeting held on 28th
September, 2012 by Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
It is further notified that said  Acreage Tax should be paid to the
office of Pradeshiya Sabha in 4 equal instalments before 31st March,
30th June, 30th September and 31st December.
If total Acreage Tax for the year 2013 is paid before 31st January,
2013, a discount of 10% of total rate and if rate for each quarter is
paid before last date of first month of each quarter to Pradeshiya
Sabha, a discount of 5% will be paid.
H. M. R. R. K. M
EDAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby proposed that it should be accepted the verification
enforced in the year 2012 too by virtue of powers vested in
Pradeshiya Sabha by Sub-section 1 of Section 146 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987,
(a) An annual tax of Rs. 10 per 01 hectare for a land of 05 or
more hectares, which is situated within Maho Pradeshiya
Sabha limits, by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya
Sabha by Sub-section 3 of Section 134 of above Act,
(b) That an annual extra tax of Rs. 50 for a land of more than
01 hectare but less than 05 hectares, as Maho Pradeshiya
Sabha limits is declared as a special area in Part IV(B) of
Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of
10.03.1989 by Minister of Local Government under by-
provisions of Sub-section (3) of Section 134 of said Act,
free from acreage tax under the direction of Section 135 of
the same Act and daily cultivated be imposed and
recovered.
(c) And that, it should be directed that, payment be made in
four equal instalments before 31st March, 30th June, 30th
September and 31st December in terms of provisions of
Sub-section 6 of Section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
11–1002/5
––––––––––––––––
MAHO  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Business Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. 7.8.4 at general meeting held on 28th
September, 2012 by Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
It is further notified that the said  business tax imposed for the
year 2013 should be paid to the office of Pradeshiya Sabha before
30th April, 2013.
H. M. R. R. K. M
EDAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is proposed that from every person who runs any business
(but it should not be an occupation) within the jurisdiction of
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha during the year 2013 for which no licence
should be obtained by virtue of powers vested in Maho Pradeshiya
Sabha by Sub-section 1 of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 and under the provisions of said Act or a By-law
made under that or no tax should be paid under Section 150 but
when the income of the said business/industry for the year 2012
has been within the limits mentioned in any item under Column I
herein a tax at rate mentioned in the corresponding entry in the
Column II should be charged for the year 2013 and that the said
business tax should be paid to the Maho Pradeshiya Sabha before
30th March, 2013.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1356
SCHEDULE
PA RT I
Type of Businesses :
01. Running a pawning centre
02. Working as a contractor
03. Maintenance of a driving school
04. Maintenance of an insurance agency
05. Running a financial institute
06. Running a foreign employment agency
07. Maintenance of a private school approved by Department
of Education
08. Maintenance of a day care centre or a pre school, beauty
culture classes, music classes, dancing classes and computer
classes
09. Maintenance of a body fitness centre, vocational training
classes and tuition classes
10. Running a place for lotteries which is approved by the
government
11. Running a studio
12. Running a place for bridal dressing and making cakes
13. Running a reception hall
14. Running a place for storage of cigarettes and selling them at
wholesale price
15. Running a government approved liquor shop for storage and
selling of liquor at wholesale price
16. Running a place for selling pet animals
17. Running a place for photo copying and laminating
18. Running a place for repairing and selling spare parts
19. Running a place for electric and electronic appliances
20. Running a place for selling and through auction sale of every
vehicle including foot bicycles, motor cycles, tractors etc.
21. Running a place for collecting coconut at whole sale price or
for manufacturing other coconut based products
22. Running a place for opticians
23. Maintenance of a lab in which blood, urine, sewage, E. C. G .
tests are carried out
24. Maintenance of an ayurvedic or western medical centre
25. Running a place for packeting and selling of tea powder,
coffee, chilly powder, spices and food items
26. Running a business for storing and selling of food items,
drinks, milk powder and biscuits at whole sale price
27. Running a place for selling gas
28. Running a place for supplying granite, sand, bricks, gravel,
cement blocks and building materials
29. Running a place for property sale
30. Maintenance of a private clinic or a nursing home
31. Running a government approved betting centre
32. Running a farm for producing seeds
33. Running a place for cultivating and selling of mushrooms
34. Running a nursery
35. Supplying private security services
36. Running a place for inland labourers
37. Running a motor bike shop
38. Running a place for selling sewing machines
39. Running a textile shop
40. Running a furnishing house
41. Running a communication centre
42. Running a place for selling animal foods
43. Selling agro chemicals
44. Running a press
45. Running a motor bike shop
46. Running a foot bicycle shop
47. Running a place for selling sewing machines
48. Running a textile shop
49. Running a boutique for selling shop items
50. Running a jewellery shop
51. Running a place for producing and selling of leather items
52. Running a place for selling used vehicle spare parts
53. Running a footwear shop
54. Running a place for selling glasswear and crokeries
55. Running a place for selling plastic items
56. Running a book shop
57. Running a place for storing and selling of minor export crops
58. Running a place for producing and selling of fancy goods and
carvings
59. Running a place for producing and selling of brooms and ekal
brooms
60. Running a place for repairing watches/clocks
61. Running a place for repairing electric and electronic appliances
62. Running a place for picture framing
63. Running a photocopy, ronio copy centre
64. Running a studio
65. Running a place for selling clay items
66. Running a place for storing and selling of bricks and roofing
tiles
67. Running a hardware
68. Running a place for selling building materials
69. Running a place for collecting and selling metal remains
70. Running an ayurvedic pharmacy
71. Running a western pharmacy
72. Running a western or ayurvedic medical centre
73. Running a newspaper agency
74. Running a pawning centre
75. Running a betting centre
76. Running a private telephone call centre
77. Running a place for selling ornamental fish
78. Running a liquor shop for storing and selling liquor
79. Running a  place for selling paint, ink, warnish and distemper
80. Running a place for storing and selling of cigerettes at whole
sale price
81. Maintenance of a dental clinic
82. Running a place for mining and selling of sand
83. Running a furniture shop
84. Running a beauty centre
85. Running a handloom weaving centre
86. Running a place for storing or selling gas
87. Running a place for property sale
88. Running a foreign employment agency
89. Running a place for cutting rubber seals
90. Running a tyre service centre
91. Running a tailor shop

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1357
92. Repairing of foot bicycles
93. Running a cushion workshop
94. Producing mattresses
95. Running a place for funeral undertakers
96. Producing sweets
97. Selling agro chemicals
98. Storing and selling of fertilizers
99. Selling cement products
100. Vulcanizing of tyres, tubes
101. Running a press operated by electricity
102. Showing cinema or video
103. A place for producing name boards and number plates
104. Running a fuel filling station
105. Hiring a public addressing system
106. Catering services
107. Hiring ceremonial goods
PA RT II
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Income of the year for which tax is relevant Tax to be paid
Rs. cts.
01. Not exceeding Rs. 6,000 Nil
02. From Rs. 6,000 - Rs. 12,000 90 0
03. From Rs. 12,000 - Rs. 18,750 180 0
04. From Rs. 18,750 - Rs. 75,000 360 0
05. From Rs. 75,000 - Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
05. Over Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
11–1002/4
–––––––––––––––––
NAWAGATTHEGAMA   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Other Charges  - Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified to the general public that the following
resolution was adopted by Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha under
decision No. 177 taken at general meeting held on 28th September,
2012.
H. D. S
ISIRA DARMAPRIY A,
Chairman,
Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha,
16th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha proposes that a fee should
be imposed and recovered for the year 2013 for materials and services
supplied by Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha which are set out
in schedule below at a rate mentioned in front of them.
SCHEDULE
Rs.  
01. Fee for applications for approval of building plans 250 0
02. Fee for applications for environmental licenses 100 0
03. Questionnarie of environmental licenses 100 0
04. Fee for renewal of applications for
environmental licences 50 0
05. Fee for street line certificates 600 0
06. Housing plan approval fees 750 0
07. Advance circuit fees for approval of building plans :
(a) For housing plans
Below 500 sq. ft. 400 0
From 500 sq. ft.  - 1,000  sq. ft. 600 0
Over 1,000 sq. ft. 1,000 0
(b) For business place :
Below 50 sq. ft. 500 0
From 500 sq. ft.  - 1,000  sq. ft. 1,000 0
For every additional sq. feet
when exceed 1,000 sq. ft.  100 0
08. To supply a water bowser 850 0
09. Tractor and bowser with water pump
for a half day 2,000 0
10. Tractor and water bowser with pump for a day
At a rate of Rs. 200 for the first km or a
half of it as the transport fee per day and at a
rate Rs. 50 for every additional km will be
recovered for No. 6, 7 and 8 as transport fees.
Fuel should be supplied for water pump in the
instance of 7 and 8 by those who are seeking
for the service 4,000 0
11. To rent out the tractor for a day 4,300 0
12. To rent out the tractor for a half day 2,150 0
11–994/9
–––––––––––––––––
NA WAGATTEGAMA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Business Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public that the following resolution
made under the motion No. 169 at the General Council held on 28th
September, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama has been
passed.
It is further notified that the Industrial Tax for the year 2013
should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th April the year.
H. D. S
ISIRA DARMAPPRIY A,
Chairman,
Nawagattegama Pradeshiya Sabha.
Nawagattegama Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1358
RESOLUTION
By virue of power vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama
under Sub-section 1 of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987, Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama proposed to
that levy a be imposed for the year 2013, a business tax each person
who maintains, within the jurisdiction of Pradeshiya Sabha in 2013
any business which is not a profession and for which a license
should not be obtained under provisions and By-laws made there
under or industrial tax whcih is not required to be paid Section 150
of the said Act, as per the rates specified in the corresponding
Column II, if the receipt in the previous year of the said business
fall within the limits of any object number indicated in the Column
I of the following Schedule and that the said business tax should be
paid before 30th April of 2013 by any person who is liable to pay
the said tax.
Annual income received from the Tax to be
business recovered
Rs. cts.
01. Not exceeding Rs. 6,000 Nil
02. From Rs. 6,000 - Rs. 12,000 90 0
03. From Rs. 12,000 - Rs. 18,750 180 0
04. From Rs. 18,750 - Rs. 75,000 360 0
05. From Rs. 75,000 - Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
05. Over Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
S
CHEDULE NO. 03
01. Running a pawning center
02. Running a contract service
03. Running a lottery agency
04. Running an insurance agency
05. Running a private school
06. Running a job agency
07. Maintenance of a bank
08. Running a place for bridal services
09. Running a place for drawing plans and architecture
10. Running a private medical center
11. Running a proeprty sale center
12. Maintenance of an office for astronomers.
11–994/2
–––––––––––––––––
MAHO  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Tax on Vehicles and Animals for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted
under resolution No. 7.8.7 at General Meeting held on 28th
September, 2012 by Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Accordingly it is further notified that by every person who
keeps a vehicle or animal and is subject to this tax within Maho
Pradeshiya Sabha limits, should pay this tax for the year 2013 to
the Maho Pradeshiya Sabha imediately after the completion of 30
days of such keeping those animals and vehicles in his custody.
H. M. R. R. K. M
EDAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Maho Pradesheeya Sabha,
28th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is proposed that an annual tax for every animal or vehicle
(shown in Column I of the Schedule below) kept in one's possession
within Maho Pradeshiya Sabha limits in the year 2013 be recovered
for the year 2013 as per the rates given in column II of the same
Schedule by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by Section
148 read with Section 147 and provisions of Schedule 04 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Amount received for the year for which Tax to be
tax is relevant or received up to that year paid
Rs. cts.
01. For every vehicle other than a motor car, a motor 28  0
tricar, a motor lorry, a motor bicycle, a cart,
a jin rickshaw, a bicycle or a tricycle
02. For every bicycle or tricycle or cart or bicycle cart -
(a) If used for a commercial purpose 18  0
(b) If not used for a commercial purpose 4  0
03. For every cart 20  0
04. For every hand tractor 10  0
05. For every rickshaw 7 50
06. For every horse, pony, mule 15  0
07. For every tusker 50  0
(2) Children vehicles, of which a wheel diameter is not exceeding
26 inches, wheel barrows, hand carts which are merely used in
private places for commercial places for commercial places and
hand carts which are not used for commercial places are free
from above payment.
(3) In this schedule term "Commercial Purpose" includes transport,
or carrying printed or written materials, any materials or goods
for any business or industry for selling or otherwise.
11–1002/7
–––––––––––––––––
ANAMADUW A   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Entertainment Act - 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public infromation that the following
resolution made under the motion 4(11) at the General Council held

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1359
on 30th October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa has
been adopted.
H. M. UDARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in by Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of
Entertainment Tax Ordinance (Chapter 267) Pradeshiya Sabha
Anamaduwa hereby proposes to impose and levy a tax equivalent
to (15%) of the payment made for admission to entertainment
defined in the said ordinance (other than Entertainment Tax) held in
the area within the administrative limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Anamaduwa with effect from the first day of the month immediately
after the month of this adoption of resolution is published in the
Gazette paper.
However, within the first two years of this adoption of
resolution is executed, the levy on the fee paid to watch a film
should be Seven point five (7.5%) other than the fee from the
excluded fee.
11–1065/8
–––––––––––––––––
ANAMADUW A   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Accepting Standard By-laws by Pradeshiya Sabha
Anamaduwa for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public infromation that the following
resolution made under the motion 4(11) at the General Meeting
held on 30th October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa
has been adopted.
H. M. U
DARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
In terms of Section 221(2a) to be read with Section 122 and 126
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, Pradeshiya Sabhas
are authorized to accepted By-laws made by the Minister of Local
Government which were published in the Extraordinary Gazette
paper No. 7/520 dated 23rd August, 1988 in terms of Section of
Local Government (Standard By-law) Act, No. 06 of 1952 and the
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa proposes that the Standard
By-law Nos. 01-18 set out in the first Schedule to be implemented
subject to the provisions specified in the third Schedule in the said
Section 2.
11-1065/6
–––––––––––––––––
ANAMADUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Acreage Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public infromation that following
resolution made under the motion No. 4(11) at the General Council
held on 30th September, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa
has been adopted.
H. M. U
DARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
(a) Pradeshiya Sabha, Anamaduwa proposes to accept the
verification enforced in 2012 in respect of every land subject
to Acreage tax situated within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa, for the Year 2013 in terms
of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-section
(1) of Section 146 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 and,
(b) To levy an annual Acreage Tax of Rs. 50 for the Year 2013,
for each hectare in respect of every land exceeding one
hectare and less than five hectares in extent in the area of
Authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa and an Acreage
tax of Rs. 10 in respect of each hectare from every land of
5 hectares or exceeding 5 hectares in extent, situated within
the area of authority of the Pradeshiya sabha Anamaduwa,
as the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa has been declared as a
special area by the Honorable Minister in charge of the
subject of Local Government which was published in Part
IV(A) of the Gazette paper of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka on 10.03.1989 in terms of the first Sub order of
Sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the said Act ; and
(c) To order to pay the said tax to the Pradeshiya Sabha
Anamaduwa in for equal installments within every quarter
ended on 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st
December by any person subject to this tax, in terms of
Sub-section (6) of Section 134 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act.
11–1065/2

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1360
ANAMADUWA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Assessment Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public infromation that following
resolution made under the motion No. 4(11) at the General Meeting
held on 30th October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa
has been adopted.
H. M. U
DARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
(a) The Pradeshiya Sabha proposes to accept the annual value
of the year 2012 in respect of all immovable property situated
in the area declared as a developed area within the limits of
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa for the year 2013, in terms
of the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-
section (1) of Section 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987.
(b) And to impose and levy an Asessment tax of twelve percent
(12%) out of the above annual value in respect of all
immovable property situated in the area declared as a
developed area within the limtis of Pradeshiya Sabha
Anamaduwa for the year 2013, in terms of the powers vested
in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-section (1) of Section
134 of the said Act.”.
(c) And to order to pay the said Assessment tax to the
Pradeshiya Sabha in four equal installments within the every
quarter ended on 31st March, 30th June, 30th September
and 31st December in terms of Sub-section (6) of Section
134 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.”.
11–1065/1
––––––––––––––––
ANAMADUW A  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Business Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public infromation that following
resolution made under the motion 4(11) at the Meeting Council
held on 30th October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa
has been adopted.
H. M. U
DARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
(a) By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha under
Sub-section  I of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.
15 of 1987, Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa proposes to
impose and levy a tax upon every person who maintains
any business within the area of authority of Pradeshiya
Sabha Anamaduwa, referred to in the first section of this
Schedule during the year 2013, in case the income of the
year 2012 is existed within the limits specified in the
corresponding Column I, as per the rates specified in the
Column II ; and
(b) The said business tax should be paid to the Pradeshiya
Sabha Anamaduwa before 30th April of 2013 by any person
subject to the said tax in terms of the powers vested in the
Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-section (3).
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Income received from the business Tax payable
during the previous year the tax is relevant Rs. cts.
01. Where annual income does not exceed No
Rs. 6,000
02. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 6,000 90 0
but does not exceed Rs. 12,000
03. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 12,000 180 0
but does not exceed Rs. 18,750
04. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 18,750 360 0
but does not exceed Rs. 75,000
05. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 75,000 1,200 0
but does not exceed Rs. 150,000
06. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
Businesses subject to this business tax are mentioned below  :
01. Commission Agents
02. Auctioneers
03. Brokers
04. Financial investors
05. Pawnbrokers
06. Contractors
07. Suppliers
08. District lottery agents
09. Insurance service centers
10. Sellers of motor vehicles and heavy vehicles
11. Private Schools
12. Employment agents
13. Banks
14. Architectures and designers
15. Assesors
16. Medical officers those running private medical centers
17. Garment factories
18. Liquor bars

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1361
19. Property sales agencies
20. Astrologer’s, offices
21. Institutes those provide marriage services
11–1065/5
–––––––––––––––––
ANAMADUWA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Tax on Animals and Vehicles – 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public information that the following
resolution made under the motion 4(11) at the General Meeting
held on 30th October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa
has been adopted.
H. M. U
DARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa proposes that every person who
keeps in his possession any vehicle or animal referred to in Column I
in the following Schedule should pay a tax for the year 2013 as
specified in the corresponding Column II in terms of powers vested
to the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 148 to be read with Section
147 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and the provisions
of the forth Schedule.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
01. (i) For every vehicle other than motor cycle, 25  0
motor tricycle, motor lorry, cart,
rickshaw, bicycle, tricycle
(ii) For every bicycles or a tricycle, a car or a cart –
(a) If used for business purpose 18  0
(b) For bicycles not used for business purpose 4  0
(i) Vehicle tax  4 0
(ii) Service charge  6 0
(iii) For every cart 20  0
(iv) For every hand cart 10  0
(v) For every rickshaw 7 50
(vi) For every horse, pony or mule 15  0
(vii) For every elephant or tusker 50  0
02. Wheeled children's vehicles with the diameter not exceeds 26
inches, Wheelbarrows, hand carts used only for business
purpose and hand carts not used for business purpose are free
from the above tax.
11–1065/7
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Acre tax under Section 134(3) of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
IT is hereby notified that the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its
general meeting held on 30.10.2012 had decided as per power vested
upon it under section 134(3) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act to be read
with the Section 2 of the Provincial Council Provisions Act, No. 12
of 1989, to impose and recover an Acre tax as per gazette notification
dated 03.02.1989 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
on a specified area declared in the following proportions for
permanently or constantly cultivated lands located within the
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha jurisdiction for the year 2013.
R. P . U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
On 09th November, 2012.
Rs. cts.
1. When land area is less than five hectares but not 50 0
less than one hectare
2. When land area is five hectares or more than that 10 0
and for each hectare in excess of that
11–1000/3
–––––––––––––––
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Assessment Tax
IT is hereby notified that the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its
monthly general meeting held on 30.10.2012 had resolved as per
power vested upon it under the Section 134(1) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act to be read with the Section 2 of the Provincial Council
Act, No. 12 of 1989 to impose and recover an assessment tax of 7%
of the annual estimated value of all areas identified as the
"developed" located within the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha
jurisdiction for the year 2013. A rebate of 10% will be granted if
Annual Assessment Tax for the year concerned is paid in full on or
before 31st January, 2013 and a rebate of 5% will be offered if it is
paid before the end of the first month of the quarter on quarter
basis.
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
On 09th November, 2012.
11–1000/4

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1362
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Assessment Tax for the year 2013
RECOGNITION OF ANNUAL V ALUE OF IMMOV ABLE
PROPERTIES FOR THE YEAR 2013
IT is hereby notified that the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its
general meeting held on 30.10.2012 had resolved as per power
vested upon it under the Sub-section 146(1) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with the Section 2 of the
Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 to accept Assessment tax
adopted for the year 2012 and to impose and recover an assessment
tax from all houses, buildings and premises located within the
Attanagalla Pradeshiiya Sabha jurisdiction for the year 2013.
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
On 09th November, 2012.
11–1000/5
–––––––––––––––
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Admittance of Assessment Ratio for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its
general meeting held on 30.10.2012 had unanimously decreed as
per power vested upon it under the Sub-section 5 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with the Section 2 of the
Provincial Council Provision Act, No. 12 of 1989, to a resolution to
admit and administer 7% as the Assessment tax ratio applicable for
the year 2013.
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
09th November, 2012.
11–1000/6
–––––––––––––––
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Tax on Motor Vehicles and Animals for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its
general meeting held on 30.10.2012 had unanimously resolved to a
resolution as per power vested upon it in terms of Sections 147 and
148 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, to be read with
the Provincial Council Provision Act, No. 12 of 1989 and under the
provisions therein, to impose and levy a annual tax for the year
2013 in respect of every animal or vehicle living within the
jurisdiction of the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha as per the rates
given in the following schedule and the said tax to be paid on or
before 31st March, 2013.
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
09th November, 2012.
SCHEDULE
No. Description Amount
Rs. cts.
01. For every vehicle other than a motor cycle, 25  0
motor tricar, cart, jin rickshaw, foot cycle or
a tricycle
02. For every bicycle or tricycle or bike car or cart -
(a) If used for a commercial purpose 18  0
(b) If not used for a commercial purpose 4  0
03. For every cart 20  0
04. For every hand cart 10  0
05. For every rickshaw 7 50
06. For every horse, pony, mule 15  0
07. For every tusker 50  0
11–1000/8
–––––––––––––––
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Tax on land sale for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its
general meeting held on 30.10.2012 had unanimously resolved to a
resolution as per power vested upon it in terms of the Section (1)
154 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with the
second section of the Provincial Council Provision Act, No. 12 of
1989 to impose for the year 2013 too and recover an annual tax of
one percent (1%) out of selling price of any land lying within the
jurisdiction of the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha which is transacted
at an public auction or at any other manner by an auctioneer or a
broker or his employee/agent or by a public auction or any other
manner and the same tax to be.
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
09th November, 2012.
11–1000/9

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1363
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Tax on Undeveloped Lands
IT is hereby notified that in terms of powers vested with Attanagalla
Pradeshiya Sabha by the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its general meeting held on
30.10.2012 proposed to impose and recover an annual tax of 2%
out of capital value of any such land lying within the jurisdiction of
the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha if they are not used for the under
mentioned purposes.
(a) If the percentage of area consumed for buildings and the
total area of the said land is incompatible with the required
level.
(b) If there are no any building erected on the said land.
(c) If it is not used for any cultivation purpose.
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
09th November, 2012.
11–1000/10
–––––––––––––––
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Charging any other fees for the year 2013
Rs. cts.
1. Building application/allotment/form charges 200 0
2. Demarcating lines inspection charges 200 0
3. Non compliance certification fees 500 0
4. Expiration (a year) 100 0
5. In addition to building application, for 125 0
constructing a wall/receiving an application
6. Library surety deposit 50 0
7. Banner charges per foot 25 0
8. Cutouts charges per foot 100 0
9. Land allotment checking fee 500 0
10. Dangerous branch removal form charge 200 0
11. Deed extract form charges 200 0
When building applications are submitted, the following rates
are charged depending on number of square feet of the building so
constructed.
Land area of buildings, commercial housings :-
Square meter Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Below 45 65 0 165 0
2. 46-90 100 0 200 0
3. 91-180 200 0 500 0
4. 181-270 525 0 1,200 0
5. 271-450 800 0 1,650 0
6. 451-675 2,000 0 2,900 0
7. 676-900 2,500 0 3,000 0
8. Over 900 3,000 0 5,000 0
9. Over 90 square meter 500 0 500 0
Rs. cts.
1. Rent charge for a day for playgrounds in 2,000 0
Veyangoda and Nittambuwa cliamed by the
Sabha without Vat
2. Renting open yards claimed by Sabha in Urban 10 0
areas - 1 square foot without Vat for a day for
trading activities approved by the Sabha
(maximum 14 days)
R. P. U. M. R
AJAPAKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Attanagalla, Nittambuwa,
09th November, 2012.
11-1000/11
–––––––––––––––
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Charging Environment Protection Permit
IN accordance with the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of
1980 and regulations imposed under that and the amended Acts,
No. 53 of 1988, the issuance, renewal, canceling, rejection and
suspension of environmental protection permits related to the afore
mentioned stated activities as given as projects in the "c" part in the
Extraordinary gazette No. 1,133/16 dated 25.01.2008.
1. All fuel filling stations (Stick petroleum gas and liquid
petroleum gas)
2. Candle stick industries employed by 10 employees or more
than that.
3. Coconut oil extracting industries employed by 10 employees
or more than that less 25.
4. Soft drink (non alcoholic) manufacturing industries employed
by 10 employees or more than that less 25.
5. Paddy mills with dryers.

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1364
6. Grinding mills with less than 1,000kg of monthly production
capacity.
7. Tobacco drying industries.
8. Cinnamon peeling industries with daily at turn capacity of
500kg or over that with Sulphor smoking.
9. Table salt processing and packing industries.
10. Other tea factories except instant tea factories.
11. Concrete pre-fixing industries.
12. Cement block manufactory (mechanized).
13. Lime kilns with less than 20 metric tons per day.
14. Plaster of paris manufacturing or ceramicware manufacturing
industries employed by less than 25.
15. All shells grinding industries.
16. Tile and brick kilns
17. Excavations with a single explosion (by explosive) at a time
depend on less labour with 600 square meters in a month.
18. Timber sawing mills with daily capacity of less than 50
square meters or timber treating plants.
19. Carpentry workshops powered by machines or wood related
industries employed less than 5.
20. Lodging houses and rest houses with room facilities of 5
rooms or over than less 20.
21. Motor vehicle A/C repairs/maintenance and fixing or all garages
repairing and maintaining of other vehicles except spray
painting.
22. Places of repairing, maintaining and fixing of fridges and
A/Cs.
23. Container yards without servicing vehicles.
24. All electrical and electronic item repairing centres employed
by 10 or more employees.
25. Printing shops (not required lead melting) and letter printing
machines.
Factory inspection charge :
01. The maximum inspection charge of the project or industry
concerned is calculated on the initial capital investment. The
maximum of the such levies allotted are given below :
Investment Inspection charge
(maximum)
Rs. cts.
01. Up to Rs. 100,000 400 0
02. From Rs. 100,001 - up to Rs. 250,000 750 0
03. Rs. 250,001 - up to Rs. 500,000 3,000 0
04. Rs. 500,001 - up to Rs. 1,000,000 4,000 0
05. More than Rs. 1,000,000 8,000 0
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
On 09th November, 2012.
11–1000/12
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Business Tax for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified that a resolution had been passed unanimously
at the general meeting of the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha held on
30.10.2012 in terms of Section 150 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 to be read with Section 02 of the Provincial Council
(supplementary) Act, No. 12 of 1989 by virtue of powers vested in
the Pradeshiya Sabha as to a tax be imposed for the year 2013 from
each person who maintains within the jurisdiction of the said
Pradeshiya Sabha any business, for which a license should be
obtained under the provisions and By-laws made there under or
industrial tax which is not required to be paid under sub-section 1
of Section 152 of the said Act as per the rates specified in the
schedule hereof and that the said business tax should be paid on or
before the 31st March, 2013 by any person who is liable to pay the
said tax.
R. P. U
PUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
09th November, 2012.
FIRST SCHEDULE
Annual income from the enterprise Annual tax to
be paid
Rs. cts.
From Rs. 01 up to Rs. 6,000 Nothing
From Rs. 6,001 up to Rs. 12,000 90 0
From Rs. 12,001 up to Rs. 18,750 180 0
From Rs. 18,751 up to Rs. 75,000 360 0
From Rs. 75,001 up to Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
More than Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
Enterprises concerning with the said business tax  :
1. Share agents
2. Auctioneers
3. Brokers
4. Investors
5. Creaditors
6. Contractors
7. Pawn brokers
8. Accounting officers
9. Architectures
10. Suppliers
11. Insurance agents
12. Transport agents
13. Hiring car owners
14. Automobile traders
15. Bank insurance companies
16. Driving learning schools.
11–1000/1

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1365
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Assessment Tax - year 2013
I declare that an assessment tax has been imposed under the section
134(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, from the
every fixed assets within the limits of Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha for
the year 2013 for value of 5% from annual value of residences, 8%
from commercial centers successively 31st March, 30th June, 30th
September, 31st December in similar premium.
1. A discount of 10% will be paid if the due tax is paid
before January 31st of due year or discount of 5% will be
paid if the tax is paid within 1st month of the year in the
first quarter.
2. If the tax is not paid up to date, 15% of assessment tax
from abandoned lands and 20% of assessment from
residence and non-residences and abandoned lands will
be charged.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/1
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Acreage Tax for year 2013
I declare the decision 03/06 taken at the general Assembly of Pannala
Pradeshiya Sabha held on 25.09.2012 to levy an acreage tax under
the section 134(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, from
the lands extend 2 hectares or more for the year 2013 to be settled
in four equal quarters, successively 31st March, 30th June, 30th
September, 31st December.
SUB-SECTION
Extent of land Taxes
1. less than 5 hectares and more than Rs. 10 per 01 hectare
2 hectares per annum
2. 05 hectare or more Rs. 10 per 01 hectare
per annum
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/2
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
(176th Mandate) Public Performance Ordinance Tax
I declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly held on
25.09.2012 to levy permit fee as given below, under statement 3
(Mandate 176) of public performance ordinance for the year 2013.
Rs. cts.
1. Fee levying shows 10,000 0
2. All the shows except fee levying musical shows
Per day 3,000 0
Exceeding each day 500 0
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/3
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Levying Tax under Entertainment Tax Ordinance 2013
I declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly of Pannala
Pradeshiya Sabha to levy entertainment tax equal to 10% from the
charge collected for any entertainment activity for the year 2013
under authority of 2nd decree and sub decree 1 of entertainment tax
ordinance.
Accordingly, tax levied for cinema ticket would be 7.5% of the
charge of the ticket.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/4
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Advertisement - Sub Act for Visual Environment
I hereby declare the decision 03/06 taken on 25.09.2012 at the
General Assembly of Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha to levy a permit
fee to display any advertisement towards a highway, road, canal,

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1366
tank, sea or to sky should be paid a license fee for 2010 as mention
below in the sub-section, according the authority given to me by
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and section 122(1) and
the interim act which was Gazette by the Hon. Minister for Local
Government, Housing and Construction in the special Gazette
Notification 520/7 on 23.08.1988.
SUB-SECTION
1. Charge Rs. 20 per 1 square feet for temporary banner for
demonstration or show.
2. Charging an annual fee of Rs. 200 per one square feet and
Rs. 50 for each year for a fixed advertisement board.
3. For any advertisement on a board for temporary film show or
drama charging should be Rs. 30 per 01 square feet per month.
4. For only advertisement on a board displayed using electric
bulbs or electronic gadgets should be paid Rs. 200 for 01
square feet and Rs. 50 per 1 square feet for additional year.
5. Rs. 50 charging for 01 square feet on any advertisement on a
wall or parapet wall.
6. Rs. 40 charging for 01 square feet for 01 month period banner
on land sale.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/5
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Pet Dog Registration Fee - 2013
THIS is to declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly
held on 27.09.2012  to impose dogs that are kept in the Pnanala
Pradeshiya sabha limits under authority of the fourth column
(section 477) of Dog Registration Act.
(i) Registration fee for all dogs is Rs. 5.00
(ii) It has been decided to impose a department service charge
of Rs. 20.00 along with the registration fee mentioned
above for 2013.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/11
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Levying Charges for Telephone Towers 2013
THIS is to declare the decision taken at the General Assembly held
on 25.09.2012  to charge Rs. 300,000 for 2013 as application fee
for every telecommunication tower built in the limits of Pannala
Pradeshiya Sabha and to impose and charge Rs. 100,000 as annual
renewal.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/12
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Levy Application Fee for Land Plan Certification 2013
THIS is to declare the resolution 03/06 taken at the General Assembly
held on 25.09.2012  to charge fee when a land plan certificate is
issued for private lands which are sold within the limits of Pannala
Pradeshiya Sabha (except for auction land) for 2013 as shwon
below in the sub-section.
SUB-SECTION
Rs. cts.
For land plans less than 1/2 acres 500 0
From 1/2 acre to 2 acres 800 0
From 2 acres to 5 acres 1,200 0
Above 5 acres 2,000 0
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/13
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Provisions of Burial Ground Act (Column 231)
THIS is to declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly
held on 25.09.2012  to order and charge Rs. 1,000 per square feet

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1367
for burying and laying stones in the burial grounds in the Pannala
Pradeshiya Sabha limits which belong to Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha
for the year 2013 according to the authority given to the Pradeshiya
Sabha by the provision 17 to 22 section 3 of burial ground act and
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act Provision 127 (Column 231) of 1987.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/14
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Collecting Charges for Garbage Disposal - 2013
THIS is to declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly
held on 25.09.2012  to collect Rs. 5.00 from one premise per month
under the authority of the local government Gazette issued by the
Hon. Minister of Local Government, Housing and Construction on
23.06.1988 No. 520/7 and proposal No. 5 on 25.02.1991 and sub
Act, No. 09.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/15
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Tax for Vehicles and Animals - 2013
THIS is to declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly
held on 25.09.2012 to levy tax as shown in the sub-section, for
vehicles and animals under section 148 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 for the year 2013 according to the Act, section 147
and 148(3) this should be paid before 31st March, 2013.
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
SUB-SECTION
Rs. cts.
1. Except all the vehicles other than motor bicycle, motor 25  0
tricycle, motor lorry, motor cycle, cart, gin rickshaw,
bicycle or tricycle
2. For all bicycle or tricycle or bicycle car or cart –
If vehicle for commercial purpose 18  0
If vehicle for non commercial purpose 4  0
3. For each cart 20  0
4. For each hand cart 10  0
5. For each rickshaw 7 50
6. For each horse, pony, mule 15  0
7. For each tusker or elephant 50  0
11–1069/6
–––––––––––––––
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Property Development Tax for the year 2013
THIS is to declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly
held on 25.09.2012  to collect tax from the auctioneer, agent,
employees or the broker for development plan and section approval
when any land is sold within Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha limit by
auctioneer, their employees or agents through public auction or in
other ways and a tax amount to 1% of the selling price also should
be paid under the provision 154, No. 15 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
of 1987.
Scale Development Section
Plan Approval
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Less than 1 hectare 250 0 250 0
Exceeding 1 hectare up to 2 350 0 350 0
Exceeding 2 hectare up to 4 500 0 500 0
Exceeding 4 hectare 750 0 750 0
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/7

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1368
PANNALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Charging Application Fee under the Environment Act,
No. 47 of 1980
FOLLOWING charges will be imposed as application fee and
examining charge for 2013 under the authority given by the National
Environment Act, No. 56 of 1988 and the amendment section 26
No. 57 of 1980.
Rs. cts.
1. Application fee for things prepared by plan 100 0
Application renewal application fee 50 0
Application fee 1,250 0
2. Examining fee :
Initial Investment
Up to Rs. 100,000 250 0
From Rs. 100,001 to Rs. 200,000 500 0
From Rs. 200,001 to Rs. 500,000 1,250 0
From Rs. 500,001 to Rs. 1,000,000 2,500 0
Above Rs. 1,000,001 5,000 0
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/8
–––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
The Imposement of Tax under the Entertainment Tax
Ordinance - 2013
I hereby informed that the Pradeshiya Sabha has decided 07 at the
meeting held on 25.10.2012 to impose an entertainment tax for year
2013, for any entertainment show that earn a profit by issuing
tickets with Pradeshiya Sabha stamp to gain 15% tax under the
authority given by the Entertainment Tax Ordinance. (176th
Chapter) with effect from the 01st of January, 2013.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th November, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is proposed that an entertainment tax from the date of
01.01.2013 for every entertainment show that earn a profit by
issuing tickets within Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha limits, stamp
to gain 15% tax under the Entertainment Tax Ordinance (176th
Chapter).
11–1104/7
–––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Weekly Fair Taxes for the year 2013
I hereby informed that under its decision No. 10 taken at the monthly
meeting the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha held on 25th October,
2012 of, it has been need agreed upon as per the section 119 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987. To impose and recover tax
in respect of hiring out the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha premises
in the following manner.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th November, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
01 Part of land for permanent shop 125 0
02. Part of land for temporary shop 100 0
03. Mobile selling lorry 200 0
04. Mobile selling van/three weelers 150 0
11–1104/8
–––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Advertisement Visible Environment and other
Taxes for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified that under its decision No. 12 taken at the
monthly meeting the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha held on 25th
October, 2012 of, it has been need agreed upon as per the Sub-
clause (1) in Section 122 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
To impose a permit fee as mentioned in the following schedule for
the year 2013.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th November, 2012.

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1369
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
01 For a permanent wall or board per one year 75 0
(01 sq. foot)
02. Displaying ads using banner and cut-outs
For one month (01 sq. foot) 30 0
For three month (01 sq. foot) 40 0
For six month (01 sq. foot) 50 0
11–1104/9
–––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Assessment Tax for the year 2013
THE general public is hereby informed that the Pelmadulla
Pradeshiya Sabha has approved the following resolution under
decision 01 at the meeting held on 25th October, 2012. It is hereby
notified that the assessment tax shall be paid in four equal instalments
to the office of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
If the assesment tax for the year 2013 is paid in full to the
Pradeshiya Sabha office, a discount of ten percent and if the
assessment tax in respect of each quarter is paid before the last day
of the months it is due, a discount of five percent may be allowed as
the case may be.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th November, 2012.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of the powers vested in the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya
Sabha under section (1) of section 146 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 it is hereby resolved that the annual assessment of
2013 in respect of all houses, buildings and lands in the Pelmadulla
Pradeshiya Sabha area shall be valid for the year 2012.
By virtue of the powers vested by section 134 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act -
(1) The annual assessment tax shall be 6% in villages declared
developed in the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha aera in
respect of immovable property.
(2) The assessment tax shall be 4% in the villages declared
developed in the Marapana Sub-office area and the
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha resolves as above by virtue
of the powers vested in it by Sub-section 6 of section 134
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, that the assessment tax shall
be paid in respect of the year in equal instalments by 31st
March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December
each year.
11–1104/1
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Acreage Tax for the year 2013
ENFORCEMENT of Acreage Tax for the year 2013 it is hereby
notified for the information of the public that the following
resolution has been adopted under Decision No. 02 at the meeting
of the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha held on 25th October, 2012.
It is also hereby notified that the acreage tax approved for the
year 2013 shall be paid in four equal instalments in each quarter to
the Pradeshiya Sabha Office.
If the full acreage tax for the year 2013 is paid to the Pradeshiya
Sabha before the 31st of January, a discount of ten percent on the
acreage tax if paid before the expiry of the any quarter may be
allowed on such payment.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th November, 2012.
MOTION
In terms of the provisions of Sub-section 3 of Section 134 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, permanent of regular
agricultural lands situated in the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha area
and not excempted under Section 135 of the above Act.
(a) An annual acreage tax of Rs. 10 on each hectare on lands
above five hectare for the year 2012 shall be taxed.
(b) An annual acreage tax of Rs. 50 on each agricultural land
above one hectare but below 5 hectares shall be taxed in
accordance with the proclamation published on
03.02.1989 in Section IV(A) of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka proclaiming
area of operation of the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha as a
special area by the minister-in-charge of the subject of
Local Government under the powers vested in him by
sub-section 3 of Section 134 of the above Act.
(c) The Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha is pleased to move by
virtue of the powers vested in it by sub-section 6 of
section 134 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act that it shall
order the payment of the taxes in equal instalments before
31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st
December of each year.
11–1104/2

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1370
DICKWELLA  PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Advertisement Visible environment (39th part of secoundary constitution)
ACCORDING to the authority, given to me by the articles 122, 126(VII)( B) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 after declairing
IV(A) Part of Local Government special Gazette No. 520/07 and 23.08.1988 by the Honorable Minister and then according to the
secoundary constitution aquired by the Pradeshiya Sabha Dickwella, It is noticed to the public that it is suitable to charge a tax for the
advertisements (included banners) in Pradeshiya Sabha area. Dickwella as following Sub-list for year 2013, till amendment again  from
01.01.2013, under the decision No. 6.1.5(8) of the meeting held on 28th August, 2012.
KRISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha, Dickwella.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
SUBLIST
Serial Approval paper Three months or More than three months
No. less than it or for year
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 For an advertisement displays on a wall or a notice board. For one 50 0 50 0
square meter of house/building business place/ on the roof (permanent)
02 For an advertisement/banner display on road for the awarenes of the public 20 0 50 0
for one square meter
11–977/11
–––––––––––––––––
PASGODA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of Advertisement Tax for the year 2013
IT is hereby notified that following proposal was unanimously passed by the Sabha under decision No. 04(05) (VI) at the meeting held
on 20th July, 2012.
MAHINDA EASW ARAGE,
Chairman,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
Urubokka,
20th July, 2012.
PROPOSAL
As per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by para (b) of Sub-section (1) of Section 147 which should be read with Section
149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and since the Sabha has accepted the sub statutemade under the said act and publish ed in
the Gazette extraordinary No. 520/7 dated 23.08.2009, the Sabha has proposed to impose and recover an business tax on any business
which is not a profession or does not need to pay any advertisement tax on display and construction of advertisements within th e area
of Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha, as mentioned in the first column and amount of tax mentioned in the second column of the following
schedule for the year 2013.

<!-- page 51 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1371
SCHEDULE
1st Column 2nd Column
Serial Description of the Tax fees from Tax fees Tax fees for
No. advertisement 1 sq. ft. to 25 Sq. ft. from25 Sq. Ft. over 50 Sq. Ft.
to 50 Sq. Ft.
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 For advertisements displayed in private premises 450 0 650 0 850 0
02 For 01 banner and 01 cutout displayed in private premises 350 0 550 0 750 0
03 For advertisement boards displayed close to 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
highway to be seen to highway
04 For 01 banner and 01 cutout displayed close to 450 0 650 0 850 0
highway to be seen to highway
11–990/4
–––––––––––––––
PUTTALAM   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of duties on Licences issued for the year 2013 under By-laws related to running a certain business
IT is hereby notified to the general public that the resolution shown in the following Schedule was passed by the Puttalam Prad eshiya
Sabha under the decision No. 06:IX at the meeting held on 24th September, 2012.
Further it is notified that a duty is levied on every license issued by the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha for the year 2013 to run a
certain business within the limits of the said Pradeshiya Sabha under certain By-law.
R. P. DILUK PATHIRAGE,
Chairman,
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha,
Madurankuliya,
27th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Puttalam Pradeshiya Sabha hereby propose to impose and levy a duty in respect of licenses issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha for
the year 2013 undr By-laws made by the Pradeshiya Sabha or By-laws accepted by the Pradeshiya Sabha which were passed earlier a s
per the powers vested to a Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Section 147 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 be read with the Section
149 of the same Act and the duty shall be levied on behalf of the Businesses mentioned under Column I set out in the following Schedule
and shall similar to the sum set out in the corresponding entry in Column II.
A duty shall be imposed and levied provided further on the Businesses mentioned in the same Schedule is a hotel, restaurant or
lodging house registered with or approved or recognised by the Sri Lanka Tourist Board. The duty so levied shall be according t o the
takings of the hotel, Restaurant or lodging house for the year preceding the year in which the license duty is levied and the a mount shall
be one percentum of such takings or sum set out in the corresponding entry in Column II, which ever is less.

<!-- page 52 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1372
SCHEDULE
I Column II Column
Nature of Business Annual value of the premises
Annual value Annual value Annual value
upto Rs. 750 upto Rs. 1,500 over Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Retail sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Running a tea and coffee shop 500 0 650 0 1,000 0
3. Running a rice shop (Bath kade) or banquet hall 500 0 850 0 1,000 0
4. Running a Pharmacy 700 0 800 0 1,000 0
5. Maintaining a place to sell indigenous drugs 500 0 750 0 900 0
6. Sale of dairy products 500 0 750 0 900 0
7. Running a place to gather and freezee milk 650 0 800 0 1,000 0
8. Running a place to sell chicken 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
9. Running a place to sell eggs 500 0 750 0 950 0
10. Running a communication (a place where telephone calls and 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
photocopies could be obtained)
11. Running a place to sell mobile phones 600 0 700 0 900 0
12. Running a tailoring shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a textile shop 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
14. Running a place to sell shoes (shoemart) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Leather item sale centre 650 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Running a place to repair radio, TV and electrical appliances 750 0 850 0 1,000 0
17. Running a place to sell electrical appliances (TV, radio,
refrigerators, gas cookers, electrical appliances) 750 0 850 0 1,000 0
18. Running a place to sell compact disks and cassets 500 0 750 0 900 0
19. Running a place to sell mtor bicke/bicycle/spare parts 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
20. Running a place to sell threewheeler spare parts 650 0 800 0 1,000 0
21. Running a place to sell tyres and tubes 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
22. Running a bridal dressing stall 650 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Running a place for creations 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
24. Running a studio 650 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Running a place to frame pictures 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
26. Running a vedio place mobile 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Running a place to sell stationary and newspapers 650 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Running a place to sell fancy items 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
29. Running a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Running a hardware shop to sell sand, bricks and tiles 700 0 850 0 1,0000
31. Running a place to sell cement and iron goods 750 0 850 0 1,000 0
32. Running a place to sell paints and PVC pipes 700 0 900 0 1,000 0
33. Running a place to sell asbestos sheets 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
34. Running a hardware shop 600 0 700 0 1,000 0
35. Running a saloon 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Running a jewellery shop 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
37. Running a fruit and vegetable shop 300 0 450 0 850 0
38. Running a betal shop 500 0 750 0 900 0
39. Running a place to manufacture ropes, besom brooms 500 0 700 0 900 0
40. Running a lottery stall 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
41. Running a sherbet shop 300 0 450 0 850 0
42. Running a cool spot 500 0 650 0 950 0
43. Running a electrical workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. Running a place to sale ornamental fish 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
45. Running a mixed business (retail, frozen food, fancy items) 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
46. Running a place to draw housing and building plans 500 0 600 0 900 0
47. Running a place undertake astronomy based activities 500 0 550 0 850 0
48. Running a place to sell flora 600 0 800 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 53 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1373
49. Running a place to sell dried fish 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
50. Running a place to sell coconut oil (retail) 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
51. Running a place to sell betal having stored 300 0 450 0 850 0
52. Running a guest house 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
53. Running a place to packet and sale tea leaves 500 0 650 0 850 0
54. Running a fish stall 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
55. Maintaining a movable stall 500 0 600 0 900 0
56. Running a place to pack salt 500 0 600 0 900 0
57. Running a place to store salt 500 0 600 0 900 0
58. Running a private hospital 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
59. Running a mobile fish business 500 0 650 0 850 0
60. Running a mill (rice, chille, coffee, curry powder) 450 0 550 0 850 0
61. Running a three wheeler service centre 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
62. Maintaining a service centre (motor vehicles, three wheelers, motor bicycles) 700 0 900 0 1,000 0
63. Running a piggery 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
64. Maintaining ornamental fish/birds sale centre in live 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
65. Running a gram/vade hawking centre 300 0 450 0 850 0
66. Carrying out printing work by means of computers 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
67. Supply of food stuffs for functions 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
68. Provision of items for functions 700 0 900 0 1,000 0
69. Maintaining out lets on either side of the road 500 0 600 0 900 0
70. Maintaining a papadam manufacturing centre 450 0 550 0 850 0
71. Running a foreign employment agency 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
72. Maintaining a gifts and fancy goods sales centre 500 0 650 0 850 0
73. Maintaining a reception hall 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
74. Running a motor bicycle sales centre 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
75. Running a push bicycle sales centre 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
76. Maintaining brick and tile storing and sales centre 700 0 900 0 1,000 0
77. Maintaining a jewellery making or repairing centre 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
78. Maintaining a firewood storage or sales centre 500 0 650 0 900 0
79. Maintaining a storage where more than 50 new or used tyres and 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
tubes can be kept
80. Operating an electric press 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
81. Running a newspaper and magazine sales centre 500 0 650 0 900 0
82. Selling school books and stationeries 300 0 450 0 850 0
83. Maintaining a place where more than 25 CWT of fertilizer can be stored 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
84. Cement related concrete products manufacturing and sales centre 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
85. Running a record bar and video rental centre 450 0 550 0 850 0
86. Maintaining a honey making and storing centre 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
87. Maintaining a besom, broom and salt producing centre 450 0 550 0 850 0
88. Maintaining funeral items providing centre 450 0 550 0 850 0
89. Operating a digital press 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
90. Maintaining a blood and urine laboratory 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
91. Display and sale of goods 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
92. Running a betting centre 500 0 650 0 1,000 0
93. Maintaining a motor cycle and push cycle garage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
94. Maintaining a bite sales centre 650 0 800 0 1,000 0
95. Maintaining mobile bite carts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
96. Running a butcher's
(a) beef 750 0 950 0 1,000 0
(b) mutton 750 0 950 0 1,000 0
(c) chicken 660 0 975 0 1,000 0
I Column II Column
Nature of Business Annual value of the premises
Annual value Annual value Annual value
upto Rs. 750 upto Rs. 1,500 over Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 54 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1374
97. Running a mobile shop 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
98. Maintaining a watch repairing centre 500 0 600 0 800 0
99. Maintaining a music instrument training centre 550 0 700 0 1,000 0
100. Maintaining an agent post office 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
101. Maintaining a wedding suit or such item rental centre 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
102. Providing computer training and related service (internet services) 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
103. Running a motor spare parts sales centre 850 0 950 0 1,000 0
104. Running a co-operative shop 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
105. Filling, storing and sales of gas cylinders 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
106. Mechanical and non-mechanical carpenter's shed –
Mechanical 800 0 900 0 1,000 0
Non-mechanical 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
107. Maintaining a furniture sales centre 650 0 850 0 1,000 0
108. Repairing of water pumps 350 0 500 0 900 0
109. Maintaining a coconut ratter chopping and sales centre 650 0 800 0 1,000 0
110. Maintaining a bobbing and wood carving training and cutting centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
111. Maintaining a motor cycle repairing centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
112. Maintaining a push bicycle repairing centre 450 0 600 0 900 0
113. Maintaining a three wheeler repairing centre 600 0 800 0 1,000  0
114. Maintaining a motor car repairing centre 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
115. Maintaining a vehicle spring workshop 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
116. Maintaining a water sales centre 350 0 500 0 900 0
117. Maintaining a stores 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
118. Mobile advertising stalls
10 x 10 sq. f. 350 0 500 0 850 0
10 x 20 sq. f. 450 0 650 0 900 0
10 x ...10 sq. f. 500 0 750 0 950 0
119. Operating a certain profit earning business or service 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
providing institue
120. Maintaining a food item sales centre 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
121. Maintaining a copra purchaing and sales centre 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
122. Maintaining a cashew and grain collection centre 450 0 650 0 900 0
123. Maintaining a sea-leach export centre 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
124. Maintaining a lime kiln 600 0 750 0 900 0
125. Maintaining a coconut oil mill 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
126. Maintaining a prawn drugs and vitamins sales centre 600 0 750 0 900 0
127. Operating a lodging house 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
128. Maintaining a copra loft 600 0 750 0 900 0
129. Maintaining a foreign liquor sales and Chinese restaurant 750 0 950 0 1,000 0
130. Maintaining an electricity supply centre through solar cells 450 0 650 0 900 0
131. Maintaining a land balance 500 0 650 0 900 0
132. Maintaining a noodles and papadam producing and sales centre 500 0 650 0 900 0
133. Maintaining a seed paddy sales centre 500 0 650 0 900 0
134. Maintaining a lathe and welding workshop 750 0 850 0 1,000 0
135. Maintaining a battery charge centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
136. Maintaining a fertilizer manufacturing centre 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
137. Maintaining a smithy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
138. Operating a slaughter house 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
I Column II Column
Nature of Business Annual value of the premises
Annual value Annual value Annual value
upto Rs. 750 upto Rs. 1,500 over Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 55 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1375
139. Maintaining an electric motor coiling centre 700 0 850 0 1,000 0
140. Running a bakery –
Firewood 600 0 700 0 900 0
Hearths 650 0 750 0 1,000 0
141. Maintaining an agro-chemical and fertilizer sales centre 750 0 850 0 1,000 0
142. Maintaining a rubber hose manufacturing centre 500 0 800 0 1,000 0
143. Running a press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
144. Operating a vehicle tinkering and painting centre 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
11–993/7
–––––––––––––––––
PASGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of business permit fees for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that following proposal was unanimously passed by the Sabha under decision No. 04(05)(II) at the meeting held on
20th July, 2012.
MAHINDA EASW ARAGE,
Chairman,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
Urubokka,
20th July, 2012.
PROPOSAL
AS per the powers vested by Para (b) of sub Section (l) of Section 147 which should be read with the Section 149 of Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and as the Sabha has accepted sub statutes published in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 520/7, dated
23.08.1988, made under the said Act, it is hereby notified that the Sabha has proposed to impose and recover a permit fee on any business
mentioned in the first column and permit fee mentioned in the second column of the following Schedule for the year 2013. In add ition,
stamp duty of 10% of permit fees will also be recovered.
SCHEDULE
1st Column 2nd Column
Serial T ype of the Business Annual Annual Annual
No. income not income income over
exceeding From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
Rs. 751 to Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 Maintenance of a place of accomodation 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02 Maintenance of a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03 Maintenance of a boutique of rice/hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
I Column II Column
Nature of Business Annual value of the premises
Annual value Annual value Annual value
upto Rs. 750 upto Rs. 1,500 over Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 56 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1376
04 Maintenance of a Tea/Coffee Shop 250 0 450 0 650 0
05 Maintenance of a Hotel/Restaurant 350 0 500 0 750 0
06 Maintenance of a Firm of Producing Confectionery 350 0 500 0 750 0
07 Maintenance of a herd of cows
(1) Up to 05 cows 150 0 200 0 300 0
(2) Over 05 cows 200 0 250 0 400 0
08 Maintenance of a place of Selling Milk Products 300 0 400 0 500 0
09 Maintenance of a place of Selling Confectionery 300 0 400 0 700 0
10 Maintenance of a place of Selling Fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11 Maintenance of a place of Selling Meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Maintenance of a Laundry 150 0 250 0 350 0
13 Maintenance of a Private Market 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Maintenance of a Saloon/Place of hair dressing
01 seat 225 0 250 0 400 0
02 or more seats 450 0 600 0 750 0
15 Maintenance of a place of selling and distributing cooked food items 300 0 400 0 700 0
16 Maintenance of a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17 Maintenance of a place of producing cool drinks 300 0 350 0 450 0
18 Maintenance of a shed of cattle 250 0 500 0 750 0
19 Maintenance of a butcher house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20 Maintenance of a place selling bakery products 300 0 600 0 900 0
21 Mobile business   50 0
22 Maintenance of a hotel/guest house/restaurant approved by Permit fee of 1% of previous year's income
Tourist Board
11–990/7
–––––––––––––––––
PASGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Industrial Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that following proposal was unanimously passed by the Sabha under decision No. 04(05)(III) at the meeting held on
20th July, 2012.
MAHINDA EASW ARAGE,
Chairman,
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
Urubokka,
20th July, 2012.
PROPOSAL
As per the powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by Sub-section (l) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, it is
hereby notified that the Sabha has proposed to impose and recover an industrial tax of any industry mentioned in the first colu mn and
amount of tax mentioned in the second column of the following schedule for the year 2013. It is further notified that any perso n who are
subject to such tax should pay such tax to the Pasgoda Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th of April, 2013.
1st Column 2nd Column
Serial T ype of the Business Annual Annual Annual
No. income not income income over
exceeding From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
Rs. 751 to Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 57 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1377
SCHEDULE
1st Column 2nd Column
Serial T ype of the Business Annual Annual Annual
No. income not income income over
exceeding From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
Rs. 751 to Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 Maintenance of a place of storing or burning lime 400 0 550 0 800 0
02 Maintenance of a factory of making plastic/fiber glass products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03 Maintenance of a place of drying and processing arecanut 250 0 500 0 750 0
04 Maintenance of a place of producing treacle/juggery 250 0 500 0 750 0
05 Maintenance of an ordinary blacksmith workshop 225 0 300 0 400 0
06 Maintenance of a place of making artificial/natural leather products 300 0 450 0 600 0
07 Contribution of papadam factory 200 0 250 0 350 0
08 Contribution of cinnamon oil productioning place 300 0 350 0 400 0
09 Maintenance of a place of crushing metal manually for selling 400 0 600 0 800 0
10 Maintenance of a place of packing food materials for selling 250 0 500 0 750 0
11 Maintenance of a rice mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12
13 Maintenance of a place of packing tea powder 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing plastic products 350 0 500 0 750 0
15 Maintenance of a place of producing ice cream 500 0 600 0 1,000 0
16 Maintenance of a welding shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17 Maintenance of a grinding mill for grinding rice/chilies/spices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18 Maintenance of a place of selling chilled meat/fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19 Maintenance of a place of cultivating mushrooms for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20 Maintenance of a factory where gas is used 300 0 600 0 800 0
21 Maintenance of a carpenter workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22 Maintenance of a coconut mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23 Maintenance of a quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing cement bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25 Maintenance of a lathe machine for carpentry 400 0 500 0 750 0
26 Maintenance of a place of selling fireworks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27 Maintenance of a place of producing yoghurt 500 0 600 0 1,000 0
28 Maintenance of a dental clinic 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
29 Maintenance of a place of processing rubber using power machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30 Maintenance of a lime kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31 Maintenance of a place of processing tobacco leaves 200 0 300 0 400 0
32 Maintenance of a poultry farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33 Maintenance of a place of producing cement items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34 Maintenance of a place of servicing motor cycles/three wheelers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35 Maintenance of a poultry farm (cocks) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36 Maintenance of a place of selling vegetable 300 0 400 0 750 0
37 Maintenance of a place of selling fruits 300 0 400 0 500 0
38 Maintenance of a place of processing rubber by hand machines and 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
fumigating
39 Maintenance of a place of selling chilled food items (yoghurt, fruit 250 0 500 0 750 0
drink packets, ice cream)
40 Maintenance of a place of retail selling chilies, salt and other 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
perishable food items
41 Maintenance of a mobile business of retails selling of bakery products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42 Maintenance of a carpenter workshop where multi purpose machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43 Maintenance of a place of producing cigars/beedi 225 0 250 0 300 0
44 Maintenance of a place of producing and storing copra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45 Maintenance of a place of repairing bicycles 350 0 500 0 750 0

<!-- page 58 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1378
46 Maintenance of a place of repairing motor cycles/three 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
wheelers/hand tractors
47 Maintenance of a place of vulcanizing tyre and tubes 350 0 500 0 800 0
48 Maintenance of a place of producing motor vehicle number plates 350 0 500 0 600 0
49 Maintenance of a place of designing jewellery 500 0 700 0 900 0
50 Maintenance of a place of producing and storing coir 250 0 300 0 450 0
51 Maintenance of a place manufacturing products using 175 0 225 0 275 0
coir/other type of fiber
52 Maintenance of a place of producing tea boxes or wooden boxes 300 0 350 0 500 0
53 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54 Maintenance of a studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55 Maintenance of a weaving center using hand machines 300 0 350 0 400 0
56 Maintenance of a weaving center using power machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57 Maintenance of a place of producing incense sticks 150 0 200 0 250 0
58 Maintenance of a place of repairing radios, televisions, 400 0 500 0 750 0
sewing machines and all type of electric equipments
59 Maintenance of a place of repairing watches 200 0 300 0 400 0
60 Maintenance of a tin workshop 250 0 300 0 400 0
61 Maintenance of a place of printing cloth designs 400 0 500 0 600 0
62 Maintenance of a place of producing metal items using machines 350 0 500 0 600 0
63 Maintenance of a place of producing or storing casted items 225 0 300 0 500 0
64 Maintenance of a place of repairing shoes and umbrella 150 0 175 0 225 0
65 Maintenance of any type of plant nursery for sale 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
66 Maintenance of a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
67 Maintenance of a place of producing/selling ornamental 250 0 300 0 400 0
items or hand crafts
68 Maintenance of a place of making envelopes 150 0 175 0 225 0
69 Mainteínce of a place of packing/selling spices and chilies 300 0 600 0 900 0
70 Maintenance of a place of producing brooms and doormats 150 0 175 0 200 0
71 Maintenance of a business of mining sand for sale 400 0 600 0 800 0
72 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing various items 400 0 500 0 750 0
using iron/steel and grill gates
73 Maintenance of a place of producing and selling acids 400 0 650 0 1,000 0
74 Maintenance of a place of framing pictures 175 0 225 0 450 0
75 Maintenance of a beauty saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
76 Maintenance of a private educational institute (Over 25 students) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
77 Maintenance of a place of name boards/notice boards/ banners 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
78 Maintenance of a place of collecting old metal plates 400 0 550 0 950 0
79 Maintenance of a place of repairing mobile phones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
80 Maintenance of a place of manufacturing match boxes 300 0 500 0 800 0
81 Maintenance of a place of repairing refrigerators/ deep freezes/ 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
air conditioners
82 Maintenance of a temporary business place in festive grounds 300 0 500 0 700 0
83 Maintenance of a place of motor cycle electrical services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
84 Maintenance of a place of gold and silver plating 300 0 500 0 750 0
85 Maintenance of a place of charging batteries 300 0 500 0 750 0
86 Maintenance of a place of spray painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
87 Maintenance of a place of electro plating 400 0 500 0 600 0
88 Maintenance of a place of sewing garments
For 01 machine 200 0 250 0 300 0
For 02 machines 225 0 330 0 450 0
From 03 to 25 machines 325 0 375 0 600 0
1st Column 2nd Column
Serial T ype of the Business Annual Annual Annual
No. income not income income over
exceeding From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 59 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1379
89 Maintenance of a place of repairing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
90 Maintenance of a place of fumigating rubber 300 0 500 0 750 0
91 Maintenance of a steel lath machines 400 0 600 0 800 0
92 Maintenance of a place of repairing vehicle air conditioners 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
93 Maintenance of a place of producing and burning bricks 200 0 225 0 250 0
11–990/2
–––––––––––––––––
NA WAGATTEGAMA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing charges on license issued for the year 2013 under a By-law relevant to the maintenance of an Industry
IT is hereby notified to the public that the following resolution made under the motion No. 168 at the General Council held on 28th
September, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama has been passed.
It is further notified a charge will levied upon every license issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama in the year 2013 for
the maintenance of any industry within the administrative limits of Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama under any By-law.
H. D. SISIRA DARMAPPRIY A,
The Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama.
Nawagattegama Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama proposes to impose and levy a license duty for each industry referred to in the Column I as
per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II of the same Schedule in terms of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha by Section 149
to be read with Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 with regarding the issue of license by Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama
for the year 2013 under a By-law made by the Pradeshiya Sabha or a standard By-law accepted by the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama
; and
In an instance where such industry referred to in the said Schedule is a hotel, a restaurant or a lodge registered with or approved
and accepted by the tourist board in Sri Lanka to levy one percent of receipts in the previous year from said hotel, restaurant or lodge rates
as specified in the corresponding Column II Schedule or a license duty similar to a rate whichever is lesser.
SCHEDULE No. 01
Columns I Columns II
Annual Value
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
Business than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. Rs. Rs.
01. Running a tea outlet 300 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Running a canteen 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Running a quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Running a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Running a place for food and lodging 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Running a laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
1st Column 2nd Column
Serial T ype of the Business Annual Annual Annual
No. income not income income over
exceeding From Rs. 751 Rs.1,500
Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 60 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1380
07. Running a farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Running a place for dairy products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Producing and selling sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Selling fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. A place for selling meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. A place for producing ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. A place for black smithy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. A place for repairing vehicle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. A place for repairing bicycles 300 0 500 0 750 0
16. Running a tinkering workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a carpentry shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running a rice mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Producing cement ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Running an eating house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Itinerant selling (fish) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Itinerant selling (other) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Selling ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. A place for grinding grain 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Running an oil mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Producing and selling mushrooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Packeting grain and spices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. A place for battery recharging 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Running a welding shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. A centre for charcoal production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Running a lath machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Running a record bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Repairing air conditioner s and refrigerators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. A place for storing animal foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. A center for coir production centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Producing and selling Wade, Kadala an Murukku 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Lemon based production centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
38. Selling herbal gruel and drinks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Running a cattle slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Dried fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. A place for processing copra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. A milk collecting centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Drams and shows 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. Running a salon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. Vehicle service station 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. Running a mobile timber mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Running a timber mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. A private fair 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. A market 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. A sales outlet for fruit drink 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Manufacture or sale of manure or chemical fertilizer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Keeping a veterinary infirmary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Keeping of perishable food or foodstuffs for the purpose of 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
whoelsale trade
54. Keeping of old metal and new metal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55. Manufacture or furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56. Keeping of metal scraps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57. Vulcanizing of tyre tube 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Columns I Columns II
Annual Value
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
Business than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 61 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1381
58. Burning of bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
59. Manufacture an repair of jewellary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. Swing of timber by using machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
61. Carrying on a mechanical workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
62. Running a floweriest 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63. A center for soap production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–994/1
–––––––––––––––––
NA WAGATTEGAMA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Industrial Tax for the Year - 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public that the following resolution made under the motion No. 170 at the General Council held on 28th
September, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama has been passed.
It is further notified that the industrial tax for the year 2013 should be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th April the y ear.
H. D. SISIRA DARMAPPRIY A,
The Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama,
28th September, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama proposes to impose and levy for the year 2013 an industrial on each industry carried out
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagattegama refered to in Column I in following Schedule based on their annual value
as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II in terms of vested to the Pradeshiya Sabhas by Sub-section (1) of Sec tion 150
of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and every person subject to that tax the should pay the tax to the Pradeshiya Sabha
Nawagattegama before 30th April in 2013.
Column I Column II
Annual value
 Serial Business
No. Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Running a retail shop 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
02. Running a place for dress making 300 0 500 0 750 0
03. Running a place for fancy goods 300 0 500 0 750 0
04. Running a driving school 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Selling agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. A sale center for bricks and tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Selling shop items 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
08. Selling vegetables 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
09. Running a pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Selling vehicle spareparts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Columns I Columns II
Annual Value
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
Business than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 62 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1382
11. Running a studio 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
12. Running a furnishing house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Selling electric appliances 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Buying and selling grain 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Running a place for selling shoes 300 0 500 0 750 0
16. Running a place for selling bicycles and motor cycle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Selling hand tractors, tractors 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running a lottry stole 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
19. Running a book and stationery shop 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
20. Running a place for selling ayurvedic medicine 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
21. A place for picture framing 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
22. Selling ornamental fish 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
23. Running a communication center 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
24. Drawing posters, cutouts, banners and notice boards 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
25. A place for selling king coconuts and young coconuts 300 0 300 0 750 0
26. A place for selling spectacles 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
27. A place for selling tea powder 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
28. A place for selling readymade garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Private education center 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
30. A place for selling C. D. cassettes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. A place for selling cut piece garments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Selling glassware and plastic items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. A place for selling newspapers 300 0 500 0 750 0
34. A pawing center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. A place for selling repairing watches 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
36. Running a tyre service station 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
37. Running a place for cushion works 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
38. A place for photo coping and type 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
39. Running a press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. A place for storing sand 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Running a place for beauty parlor 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
42. Running a jewellery shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. A place for bridal dressing 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
44. Running a receiption hall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. A place for selling plants 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
46. Renting out vehicle and machineries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Co-operative shop (retail) 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
48. Stall for toy 300 0 500 0 750 0
49. A place for hiring ceremonial goods 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
50. A place for selling solar therm  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. A place for selling fuel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Selling betel aricanut and tobacco 300 0 500 0 750 0
53. A place for selling plantain 300 0 500 0 750 0
54. Artificial flower stall 300 0 500 0 750 0
55. Running a place for power plant 300 0 500 0 750 0
56. A place for repairing electric appliances 300 0 500 0 750 0
57. A place for producing joss sticks 300 0 500 0 750 0
58. Timber stores and sales centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
59. Collecting coconuts (wholesale) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. Running a telephone sale center 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
Column I Column II
Annual value
 Serial Business
No. Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 63 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1383
61. Hiring public addressing system 300 0 500 0 750 0
62. Computer training center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63. Selling fruits 300 0 500 0 750 0
64. Buying and selling of coconuts 300 0 500 0 750 0
65. Running a hardware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66. Selling building materials 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
67. A sales outlet for agro seeds 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
68. A place for repairing phone 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
69. A running a garments factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70. Running a bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–994/3
––––––––––––––––––––
NAW AGATTHEGAMA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Tax on Propaganda Notices – Year 2013
IT is hereby notified to the general public that the following resolution was adopted by Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha under decision
No. 171 taken at general meeting held on 28th September, 2012.
H. D. SISIRA DARMAPRIY A,
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagatthegama.
Pradeshiya Sabha Nawagatthegama,
16th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of the powers vested in terms of section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 approved by the minister
in charge of the subject of Local Government and them published in Extraordinary Gazette No. 520/7 dated 23rd August, 1988. I hereby
notify that the Nawagatthegama Pradeshiya Sabha has decided to impose and levy for propaganda notices fees for the year, 2013 a s
mentioned in the following Schedule in terms of the by-law on propaganda notices/visual environment given in section 39.
S
CHEDULE
Rs.
01. For a permanent advertisment Notice displayed on a wall a notice board 60 per 01 sq. feet (per annum)
02. To display a notice through a banner for a period less than a month 20 per 01 sq. feet
03. To display a notice through a banner for a period not less than 01 month and 30 per 01 sq. feet
not more than 03 months
04. To display a notice through a banner for a period of not less than 03 months 40 per 01 sq. feet
and not more than 06 months
05. To display a notice through a banner for a period not less than 06 months 50 per 01 sq. feet
and not more than 01 year
11–994/4
Column I Column II
Annual value
 Serial Business
No. Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 64 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1384
MAHO  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Industrial Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted under resolution No 7.8.1 at general meeting held on 28th September, 2012
by Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
It is further notified that the said industrial tax imposed for the year 2013 should be paid to the office of Pradeshiya Sabha
before 30th April, 2013.
H. M. R. R. K. M EDAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby proposed that an industrial tax should be imposed and recovered from an individual subject to the said tax for the
year 2013, before 31st March, 2013 by virtue of powers vested in Maho Pradeshiya Sabha by Sub-section 01 of Section 150 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 in respect of industries shown in Column I of schedule below which are maintained in any premises
within the jurisdiction of Maho Pradeshiya Sabha as per the rates given in Column II of this schedule.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Nature of the Industry Annual value of the premises
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Running a place for producing fancy goods and carving/ 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
engraving items
2. Running a place for repairing watches/clocks 400 0 900 0 1,000 0
3. Running a place for repairing electric and electronic appliances 450 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Running a place for producing cane items 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Running a hand loom weaving centre 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Running a rice mill 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Producing cool drinks 400 0 900 0 1,000 0
8. Manufacturing exercise books 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
9. Producing sand by washing away of soil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a retail shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a vegetable market 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a fruit market 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
13. Running a grocery 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
14. Running a betal, tobacco and arecanut shop 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
15. Repairing watches/clocks 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
16. Running a photo copying centre 300 0 600 0 900 0
17. Fish based products 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
18. Running a handloom weaving centere 400 0 900 0 1,000 0
19. Running a lathe machne 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
20. Running a blacksmithy 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
21. Running a place for producing ekal brooms 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
11–1002/2

<!-- page 65 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1385
MAHO  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing fees on licence issued for the Y ear 2013 under By-law on maintenance of certain industry
IT is hereby notified that the following resolution was adopted under resolution No 7.8.3 at general meeting held on 28th September, 2012
by Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Accordingly, further it is notified that a fee on every licence issued in year 2013 for maintenance of a certain industry withi n
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha limits under a certain By-law should be recovered.
H. M. R. R. K. M EDAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is hereby notified that Maho Pradeshiya Sabha has decided to impose and recover a licence fee as shown in column II of the
schedule below, in respect of licences which will be issued in the year 2013 by Pradeshiya Sabha, grating permission to use any premises
within Maho Pradeshiya Sabha limits for any purpose which are described in Section 149 read with Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987 or a By-law made under that and shown in the column I of the same schedule.
And to impose and recover an amount equal to 1% of the receipts of the last year as licence fees when an above premises is used
for the purpose of a hotel, a restaurant, or a lodge which were registered in and approved and recognized by Sri Lanka Tourist Board.
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Nature of the Industry or Business Annual value of the premises
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Unpleasant :
1. Cleaning graphite 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Manufacturing or keeping fertilizers or organic manure 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Seasoning of leather 400 0 700 0 900 0
4. Keeping leather for selling 400 0 700 0 900 0
5. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Producing moldive fish 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Producing rubber keeping sheet rubber 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
8. Maintenance of a western infirmary 300 0 600 0 900 0
9. Keeping perishable meals for selling at whole sale price 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
10. Keeping dried fish or salted fish (more than 150kgs) 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Adding salt or ice to fish or meat or drying them 450 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Producing charcoal or coconut charcoal 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
13. Drying tobacco 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Producing animal foods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Producing punnac 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
16. Boiling of bowel or blood 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
17. Producing soap 300 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Grinding or keeping animal bones 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Producing trunk steel 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
20. Keeping new or old metal 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
21. Keeping metal remains 400 0 700 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 66 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1386
22. Producing furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Producing cane ware 400 0 700 0 900 0
24. Running a carpentry shop 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
25. Producing syrup or fruit drinks 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Producing sweets 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
27. Soaking or stinking coconut husks 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Producing brushes (except for tooth brushes) 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Producing tooth brushes 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
30. Collecting toddy 400 0 700 0 900 0
31. Producing vinegar 300 0 600 0 900 0
32. Timber sawing 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Producing paint, varnish or distemper 450 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. Producing soda 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
35. Painting fibres 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
36. Producing leather items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Producing tinned fruits, fish or other meals 350 0 600 0 1,000 0
38. Grinding coffee, grain etc. 350 0 600 0 900 0
39. Producing baking powder 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
40. Producing gas mantel 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Producing potty 350 0 600 0 1,000 0
42. Producing candles 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
43. Producing camphor 300 0 600 0 900 0
44. Producing writing ink, pad ink or stencil ink 300 0 600 0 900 0
45. Producing washing blue 300 0 600 0 900 0
46. Producing sealing wax 300 0 600 0 900 0
47. Producing cosmetics 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
48. Producing school chalks 300 0 600 0 900 0
49. Producing tyres or tubes 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
50. Rebuilding of tyres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Vulcanizing of tyre tubes 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
52. Producing cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Producing cement ware or asbestos 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Producing sand papers 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
55. Producing plastic items 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
56. Producing bricks 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
57. Producing handlooms 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
58. Producing or re-packing of acids 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
59. Producing roofing tiles 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
60. Selling empty fertilizer bags, lime bags, flour bags and other bags 300 0 600 0 900 0
61. Producing cement blocks by using machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Dangerous Business  :
1. Granite mining or blasting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Producing vegetable oil 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
3. Producing coconut oil 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
4. Producing or storing box of matches 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
5. Producing methylated spirit 300 0 600 0 900 0
6. Producing tea chests 300 0 600 0 900 0
7. Producing coir or other fibre 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
8. Producing goods from coir or other fibres 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
Column I Column II
Nature of the Industry or Business Annual value of the premises
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 67 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1387
9. Keeping hay 200 0 500 0 800 0
10. Storing of used clothes 200 0 400 0 800 0
11. Producing or repairing of jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Sawing timber by using machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Mining of coral lime stone or lime 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Running an industry 400 0 700 0 1,000 0.
15. Keeping empty gunnies and bottles 300 0 600 0 900 0
16. Repairing of foot bicycles or motor bicycles 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Keeping used papers and newspapers 200 0 400 0 600 0
18. Scattered paintings 300 0 600 0 900 0
19. Storing of fire work items and crackers 400 0 600 0 1,000 0
20. Metal aggregation industries (producing machineries,
weapons and instruments) 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
Unpleasant and Dangerous Businesses :
1. Cleaning of mica 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Preparing of cinnamon, cardamom or fibres by using machines 450 0 700 0 1,000 0
3. Dry cleaning or dyeing 300 0 600 0 900 0
4. Fabric printing, dyeing or batik works 350 0 600 0 900 0
5. Electroplating 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
6. Producing oil or animal fat 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
7. Burning of lime stones and coral lime stones 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
8. Producing fire work items or crackers 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
9. Preparing cod liver oil 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
10. Manufacturing of boats 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Repairing and re-charging of batteries 300 0 700 0 1,000 0
12. Welding of metal 350 0 600 0 900 0
13. Repairing of motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Servicing of motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Crushing of metal by using machines 300 0 700 0 900 0
16. Running a foundry 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
17. Running a tinkering workshop 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
18. Manufacturing of vehicle bodies 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
19. Producing or re-filling of insecticides, fungicides, weedicides or 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
pesticides
20. Producing germicides 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
21. Producing mosquito coils 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
Businesses for which licences should be received as per standard By-laws mentioned in Extra Special Gazette No. ............... ..
of 23.08.1988
Unpleasant and Dangerous Businesses  :
1. For lodges 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. For hotels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. For bakeries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. For cattle shed or selling milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Eating houses, canteens and tea outlet or selling coffee 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
6. Cooking food 350 0 700 0 1,000 0
7. Selling fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Column I Column II
Nature of the Industry or Business Annual value of the premises
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 68 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1388
8. Selling meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Ice factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Cool drink factories 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. laundries 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Itinerant sellers 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Cattle sheds 250 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Slaughter houses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Hair dressing centres and salons 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–1002/3
–––––––––––––––––––––
ANAMADUW A  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Industrial Tax for the Year - 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public infromation that the following resolution made under the motion No. 4(11) at the General Meeting held
on 30th October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa has been adopted.
H. M. UDARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
(a) Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa proposes to impose and levy for the year 2013, an industrial tax on each industry carried
out within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa referred to in Column I in the following Schedule based
on their annual values as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II in terms of powers vested in the Pradeshiya
Sabha under Sub-section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 ; and
(b) To order to pay the said tax in respect of certain industry maintained up to 31st of December, 2012 by any person subject
to that tax, to the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa before 30th April in 2013 ; and
(c) In case of any industry commenced during the year 2013, the said tax to be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa
within a period of 3 months from the date of commencement of the industry by the person who maintains such industry.
F
IRST SCHEDULE
Serial Nature of the Industry When the annual When the annual When the annual
No. value exceeds value exceeds value exceeds
Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but does not Rs. 1,500
exceeds Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. A retail sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. A grocery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Sales outlet of electrical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Sales outlet of furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Column I Column II
Nature of the Industry or Business Annual value of the premises
Not more From Rs. 750 - Exceeding
than Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 69 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1389
5. Sales outlet of textiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Sales outlet of perfumes and gift items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. A place providing communication facilities 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Sales outlet of leather items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Sale or repair of watches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Sales outlet of indigenous medicine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Sales outlet of western medicines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Sales outlet of animal food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. A studio or a place for framing pictures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. A hardware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Sales outlet of ornamental goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Sales outlet of stationeries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. A place for buying grains 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. A tailor shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. A place for repairing electrical goods 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. A record bar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. A sales outlet of glassware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. A sales outlet of plastic ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. A sales outlet of steel ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Running a press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. A sales outlet of spectacles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. A sales outlet of flowers or fruit nurseries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. A place for selling or storing cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Sale of tiles, asbestos, roofing sheets or bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Sales outlet of building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Sale of spare parts of vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Sales soutlet of solar power 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Sales outlet of agro seeds 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. A driving school levying charges 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. A tutorial class levying charges 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. A computer class levying charges 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Sale or repair of computers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. A sales outlet of tires and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
38. A cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. A sales outlet for timber or boards 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Supply of ceremonial items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Stickerring 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Cutting or framing glasses 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Repair or sale of telephones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. Running a race bookie 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. A filling station or a stores 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. Sale of gas cylinders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. A dispensary 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. A lottery booth 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Manufacture of clay products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Collecting coconut in stocks for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Agro chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Shopping items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Sales outlet of bicycles and motor bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Sales outlet of tractors or hand tractors 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55. A place for selling ornamental fishes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56. Drawing notice boards, banners, cut outs, posters or stickering 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Serial Nature of the Industry When the annual When the annual When the annual
No. value exceeds value exceeds value exceeds
Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but does not Rs. 1,500
exceeds Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 70 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1390
57. Sales outlet of CD, VCD, DVDs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
58. Sales out of cut pieces 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
59. A place for selling newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. A place for selling tyres and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
61. A place for photocopying and type setting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
62. A sales outlet of jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63. Running a ceremony hall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
64. Rent out vehicles or machineries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
65. A co-operative sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66. A sales outlet of toys 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
67. Sale of fuel and transport for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68. A place for selling fruits 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68. A timber stores or sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70. A hardware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
71. A glass workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
72. Sales outlet of building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
73. Manufacturer of soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
74. Storing debris of metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
75. Storing furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
76. Manufacture of cement products and asbestos cement products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
77. Sale of jeweleris 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
78. Sale of empty gunny bags or empty bottles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
79. Storing used paper or newspapers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
80. A fruit or vegetables sales outlet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
81. Running a coconut timber shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–1065/4
–––––––––––––––––
ANAMADUW A  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Charges on License issued for the Year 2011 under a By-law relevant to the Maintenance of an Industry
IT is hereby notified for the public infromation that following resolution made under the motion No. 04(11) at the General Meet ing held
on 30th October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa has been adopted.
H. M. UDARA MADUSANKA PERERA,
Chairman,
Anamaduwa Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa,
30th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa proposes to impose and levy a license duty for each industry referred to in the Column I in case
the annual value of the premises in which the industry is maintained in within the certain limits specified in the corresponding Column II
of the following Schedule in terms of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 149 to be read with paragraph (a) of sub-
section (1) Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 in respect of the issue of license by Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduw a for
the year 2013 under a By-law made by the Pradeshiya Sabha or a standard By-law accepted by Pradeshiya Sabha Anamaduwa.
Serial Nature of the Industry When the annual When the annual When the annual
No. value exceeds value exceeds value exceeds
Rs. 750 Rs. 750 but does not Rs. 1,500
exceeds Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 71 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1391
SCHEDULE I
Column I Column II
Annual value of the place
Serial Industry Up to Exceeding Rs. 750 More than
No. Rs. 750 but less than Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. A lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Operation of gramophone or public speaking systems 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. A hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. An eating house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. A cafeteria 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Tea or coffee boutique 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. A bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. A diary farm or sale of milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Sale of food stuff 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Sale of fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Sale of meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Itinerant sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Saloon or barber saloon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. An advertisement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Sale of chemical fertilizer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Curing and selling leather 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Storing leather for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Running a veterinary hospital 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Storing perishable food or food stuff in stocks for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Storing dried, salted fish or jadi more than 150 kilograms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Making jadi of fish or meat or drying or icing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Manufacture of coconut coal or timber coal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Drying of tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Manufacture of animal food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Manufacture of punac 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Manufacture of soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Storing new or old metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Storing debris of metal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Manufacture of furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Running a carpentry shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Manufacture of syrups or fruit juices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. Manufacture of sweets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. Soaking coconut or husk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Manufacture of brushes (other than tooth brushes) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Sawing timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
38. Manufacture of leather products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Grinding coffee and grains 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Vulcanizing tires and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Manufacture of bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Manufacture of roofing tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Manufacture of cement blocks by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. Running a metal quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. Manufacture of coconut oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. Manufacture of coir products or other coir products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Manufacture of repair of jewelleries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. Sawing timber by machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 72 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1392
49. Running a smithy using machineries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Repair of bicycles or motor bicycles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Spray paintings 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Storing fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Fabric printing or painting or bathik painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Manufacture of fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55. Recharge or repair of batteries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56. Welding metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57. Repair of motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
58. Servicing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
59. Running a casting shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. Running a tin workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
61. Making bodies for motor vehicle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
62. Manufacture or sale of fruit drinks or ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63. A private fair 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
64. Sale of milk products
65. Running a coconut timber shed 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66. A fruit or vegetable stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
67. Milk products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68. Manufacture or sale of ice cream 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
69. A smithy using metals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70. Running a paddy mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
71. Packeting grains or spices 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
72. Repair of refrigerators and air conditioners 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
73. Running a beauty culture center
74. Sale of king coconut and tender coconut
75. Sale of tea leave
11–1065/3
–––––––––––––––––––
ATTANAGALLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Licence Fees for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby resolved that the Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha at its general meeting held on 30.10.2012 had resolved as per power  vested
upon it in terms of Section 147 and 149 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with the Provincial Council Provision Act,
No. 12 of 1989 to impose and recover a license fee subjective to conditions and regulations set in the By-laws as per detailed in the
following schedule from any industry or business enterprise depending on annual value of them and an annual tax on certain indu stries
based on amount depicted their presence to be paid for the year 2013 and also to recover the said licence before 31st March. of  2013.
R. P . UPUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSHE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
On 09th November, 2012.
Column I Column II
Annual value of the place
Serial Industry Up to Exceeding Rs. 750 More than
No. Rs. 750 but less than Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts

<!-- page 73 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1393
SCHEDULE
Line 1 Line II
Description of trade or business Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 more than
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Running a place of pawn brokering 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Running a lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Running a canteen 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Running a eating house, canteen, tea or coffee shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Running a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Running a milk sales spot 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Running a fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Running a meat sales stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Running a cool drinks factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Mobile traders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Running a a herd of cattle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Running a hair dressing salon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Any hotel depicted under No 2 of enterprises given in the aforementioned 1st line or any canteen mentioned under the No. 4 or
any lodging place depicted under No. 2 or in such a case the said hotel or canteen or lodging place is registered with the Ceyl on Tourist
Board for the purposes set in the Tourism Development Act, No. 14 of 1968 or when it is approved by the said Board, the fee for the year
2013 to be paid on the permit issued by the "Chairman" in respect of the said hotel, canteen or lodging place irrespective of w hat ever
mentioned on the aforesaid 2nd line to be 1 percent on total income. For the purposes of gazette notifying of charging once percent as
permit fee has been included a new in the Tourism Development Act.
11-1000/7
––––––––––––––––––––
PANNALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Taxes and License Fees for 2013
PANNALA Pradeshiya Sabha has unanimously taken decision to charge following license charges and levies under the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 and sections 147(1), 149, 150(1) (2) and proposal No. 3/17, I further inform these licenses should be obtained befo re 31st
March, 2013 under section No. 02 and 03 of industries and business Act.
L. M. S. K. RANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
SUB-SECTION No. 01
APPLICA TION FEE
I hereby inform that permit should be taken before 31st March, 2013 for the year 2013 according to the No. 15 of 1987
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, section 221(A) with No. 06 of 1952 Local Government (sub Act) prepared by Minister, No. 520/07/08 special
Gazette dated 23.08.1985 Sub section 2(03). This permit fee is charged according to the authority given by section 147 and 149.
If the hotel or restaurant is registered at Sri Lanka Tourist Board according to the license fee No. 14 of 1968 Tourist Promotion
Act should not exceed 1% of previous year. This should be paid according to the face value of the premise.

<!-- page 74 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1394
Trade or Business Detail Annual value Annual value Annual value
does not exceed Rs. 750 but exceed
exceed does not exceed Rs. 1,500
Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Tea, coffee shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Food stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Hair salon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Laundry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Lodge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Beef stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Soft drink production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Ice cream making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Juggery making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Ice factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Beauty salon 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Loudspeaker service centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Pappadam factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Noodles Production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Margarine production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Food items packaging 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Slaughter house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Drinking water bottle filling plant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Drinking water supply using water bowser 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. General merchant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Child care centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Tourism Industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Hostile Businesses :
1. Coal cleaning or storing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Fertilizer or chemical fertilizer trade 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Sum processing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Sum trading 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. poultry farm (for meat or egg) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. maldives fish production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Rubber and rubber sheet production and storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Veterinary sergeant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Storing short eats or other food items for whole sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Keeping more than 150kg of dry fish, salted fish or jady 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Icing, jady making or drying of fish or meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Coconut shell charcoal or firewood charcoal production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Tobacco leave drying 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Animal food processing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Punnak (residue processing) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Soaking animal flesh or blood 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Soap production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Animal bone crushing or storing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Trunk box facbrication 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Old or new steel yard 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Used steel particle yard 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Furniture manufacturer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Cane production manufacturing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Carpentry workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Fruit drink or syrup makng 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 75 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1395
26. Producing sweet meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Coconut husk soaking 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Brush making (except tooth brush) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Tooth brush making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Toddy collection centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Vinegar production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Paint, varnish or distemper production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. Soda production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. Dying plant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Sum ware production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Fruit, fish or other food items caning plant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
38. Coffee or other grain items grinding mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Baking powder making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Gas mental production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Pot production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Candle production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Kapuru production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. Writing ink, printinkg ink or stencil ink production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. Cloth whitening blue liquid ink production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. Lakada production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Perfume production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. School chalk production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Manufacturing tire or tube 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Tire refilling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
51. Tire, tube vulcanizing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Cement making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53. Cement or asbestos material production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Sand paper making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55. Plastic ware production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
56. Brick burning 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
57. Cloth weaving with machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
58. Acid production or repacking 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
59. Roof tile making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. Cleaning of lime powder, fertilizer sack 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
61. Producing cement block brick with machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Hazardous Trades :
1. Granite road mine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Vegetable oil production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Coconut oil production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Match stick production and storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Methylated spirit production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Tea box making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Coir or other fibre production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Producing material using coir or other fibre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Paddy husk storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Used cloth storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Jewellery making or repair 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Wood sheet making with machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Lime stone cutting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Trade or Business Detail Annual value Annual value Annual value
does not exceed Rs. 750 but exceed
exceed does not exceed Rs. 1,500
Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 76 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1396
14. Factory with machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Empty sack or bottle collecting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Foot bicycle or motor bicycle repair 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Used paper or newspaper collection 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Spray painting (tinkering) workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Fire cracker storage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Steel tool making (machines or instruments) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Hostile or Hazardous Trades  :
01. Charcoal cleaning plant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Processing spice with chemical 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Dye cleaning dying 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Batik, cloth printing or dying 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Electronic copper coating 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Oil or animal fat processing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Limestone burning 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Producing fireworks or crackers 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Shark oil processing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Boat yard 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Battery charging or repairing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Lathe work 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Motor vehicle repairing garage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Morot vehicle washing (service) plant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Steel crushing plant 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Welding workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Tin ware workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Motor vehicle body building 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Pesticide or weedicide production and refilling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Disinfectant products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Mosquito coil making 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
SUB SECTION - 02
T
AX FOR SOME TRADE AND BUSINESS ACTIVITIES
Notice is given regarding imposing and levying tax for 2010 from some Industries according to the annual income of such
Industries under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, section 150(1), 150(2) No. 15 of 1987.
Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income
less than less than less than less than  exceeding
Trade or Business Detail Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 18,750 and Rs. 75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs. 150,000
exceeding exceeding and exceeding and exceeding
Rs. 6,000 Rs. 12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs. 75,000
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
1. Ayurvedic Dispensary 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
2. News paper agent 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 2,500 0
3. Producing and exporting vegetable and fruits 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 2,500 0
4. Drawing pictures on ceramic using tools 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
5. Private business 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
Trade or Business Detail Annual value Annual value Annual value
does not exceed Rs. 750 but exceed
exceed does not exceed Rs. 1,500
Rs. 750 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 77 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1397
6. Tea store for export 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
7. Dental Clinic 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 2,000 0
8. Transport service centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
9. Sand mining yard 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
10. Electrical appliance shop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
11. Wedding equipment rental 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
12. Leasing company 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
13. Bank or finance companies 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
14. Driving school (learners) 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
15. Betting centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
16. Insurance company 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
17. Motor bike or car racing circuit 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
18. Private Educational Institutes 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
19. Medical Service Centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
20. Foreign Employment Agency 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
21. State approved liquor shop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
22. Vehicle sale 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
23. Attorney office 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
24. Notary Public office 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
25. Surveyor office 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
26. Mortgage centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
27. Rest house 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
28. Coconut processing centre for export 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
29. Rent a car centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
30. Motor bicycle showroom and sale 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
31. Tractor and hand tractor sale 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
32. Commission agent 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
33. Auditing office 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
34. Auction, contractor and broker centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
35. Printing press 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
36. Vehicle spare parts selling 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
37. House planning and estimation 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
38. Property developing company 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
39. Garment factory 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
40. Film theater 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
41. Timber mill (big scale) 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
42. Gravel and granite mine 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
43. Steel factory 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
44. Motor garage 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
45. any kind of oil storage facility 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
46. Lime stone storage or sale 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
47. Gas store and sales depot 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
48. Tobacco leaves storage 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
49. Cigar or beedy production or selling 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
50. Dry fish selling store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
51. Hardware and building material store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
52. Battery sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
53. Poultry food store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income
less than less than less than less than  exceeding
Trade or Business Detail Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 18,750 and Rs. 75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs. 150,000
exceeding exceeding and exceeding and exceeding
Rs. 6,000 Rs. 12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs. 75,000
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 78 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1398
54. Oil mill 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
55. Blacksmith 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
56. Acid production and storage 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
57. Fire cracker sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
58. Coir mill 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
59. Petroleum product oil storage depot 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
60. Agro chemical merchant 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
61. Coppora processing depot 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
62. Processed coconut production and warehouse 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
63. Coconut related product processing plant 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
64. Cotton production and storage 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
65. Textile store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
66. Wood box assembly 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
67. Coconut timber workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
68. Glass vender picture framing 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
69. Tinkering workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
70. Iron nail production 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
71. Brass workshop or vender 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
72. Optical centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
73. Tailoring centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
74. Woodwork workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
75. Exercise book production 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
76. Pestle production workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
77. Cushion work 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
78. Paint sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
79. Fibre workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
80. Concrete workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
81. Plastic ware sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
82. Furniture showroom 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
83. Yarn dying centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
84. Paper production factory 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
85. Gem cutting and polishing workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
86. Foot ware factory 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
87. Mattress production workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
88. Stone memento carving centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
89. Fancy good sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
90. Bridal service centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
91. Betel sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
92. Motor bike spare parts vender 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
93. Three wheeler spare parts vender 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
94. Tire sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
95. Bag making centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
96. Incense stick production 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
97. Hygiene towel production 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
98. Radio and TV repair centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
99. Aluminium ware production and sales 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
100. Tire and tube repair workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
101. Jewellery store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
102. Rice mill with a ground 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income
less than less than less than less than  exceeding
Trade or Business Detail Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 18,750 and Rs. 75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs. 150,000
exceeding exceeding and exceeding and exceeding
Rs. 6,000 Rs. 12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs. 75,000
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 79 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1399
103. Rice mill without a ground 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
104. Coconut husk slicing yard 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
105. Silencer making workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
106. Generator and refrigerator repair 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
107. Cinema theatre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
108. Galvanize sheet products 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
109. Name board or sticker cutting centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
110. Mushroom groove and sale centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
111. School stationery store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
112. Sinhala medicine selling store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
113. Soft drink bottle warehouse or sale 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
114. Coconut treacle juggery sale 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
115. Milk related products store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
116. Animal sales centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
117. Process fish storage 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
118. Warehouse that stores flour, sugar, rice or 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
onion for whole sale (exceeds 50kg)
119. Tourist business 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
120. Cashew processing or selling 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
121. Spices sale or bulk storage 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
122. Medicinal cocktail stall 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
123. Charcoal warehouse 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
124. Vegetable stall 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
125. Fruit stall 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
126. Coppara store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
127. Coir husk storage facility 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
128. Coir husk drying place 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
129. Timber depot 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
130. Firewood processing plant 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
131. Roof tile, brick and red brick collection 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
132. Coconut oil storage and sale centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
133. Coconut pulp warehouse
(more than 1 metric ton) 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
134. Used polythene storage 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
135. Pooja material store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
136. Telecommunication centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
137. Aricanut processing centre 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
138. Coconut treacle processing 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
139. Funeral substance sale centre
140. Oil production with a machin 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0e
141. Storing more than 1 ton paulty food 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
142. Lathe machine workshop 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
143. keeping a pit to soak timber 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
144. Aricanuts storage facility 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
145. Billiard pool 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
146. Storing tea less than 50kg 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
147. Storing 50kg of vegetable oil except 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
coconut oil
148. Grocery store 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
149. Mobile phone repairing, sales and parts 90 0 180 0 360 0 1,200 0 3,000 0
11–1069/16
Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income Annual income
less than less than less than less than  exceeding
Trade or Business Detail Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 18,750 and Rs. 75,000 Rs. 150,000 Rs. 150,000
exceeding exceeding and exceeding and exceeding
Rs. 6,000 Rs. 12,000 Rs. 18,750 Rs. 75,000
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.

<!-- page 80 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1400
THIHAGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Business permit Fees for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that under section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Sabha at its monthly meeting held on 28.08.2012
under decision No. 05.12, has unanimously passed the proposal to impose and recover a business tax pertaining to businesses mentioned
in the following schedule based on the annual value of such businesses for the year 2013.
NIRMAL SAMARASINGHE,
Chairman,
Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
17th day of September, 2012.
SCHEDULE No. 01
BUSINESS PERMIT FEES UNDER SECTION 149 OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
Type of the business Annual income Annual income Annual income
not exceeding from Rs. 750 over
Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,501
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Maintenance of a bakery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Maintenance of a hotel/rice boutique 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Maintenance of a tea/coffee shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Maintenance of a place of accommodation 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Maintenance of a saloon 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Maintenance of a meat stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Maintenance of a laundry 350 0 550 0 700 0
08. Maintenance of a cool drinks factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Maintenance of a sale of milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Maintenance of a shed of cattle 300 0 450 0 600 0
11. Maintenance of a fish stall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Maintenance of a hotel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Maintenance of a hotels/and place of accommodation 1% of income of previous year has to be paid
Dangerous and Unpleasant Businesses :
1. Maintenance of a metal quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
2. Maintenance of a blacksmith's workshop 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Maintenance of a pace of bursting metal 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
4. Maintenance of a place of servicing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Maintenance of a welding shop 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Maintenance of a place of spray painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
7. Maintenance of a place of producing or storing acids 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. Maintenance of a place of selling vegetables and fruits 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
9. Maintenance of a place of selling chilled meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Maintenance of a poultry (cocks) farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–1153/1

<!-- page 81 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1401
THIHAGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Industries Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that under section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Sabha at its monthly meeting held on 28.08.2012
under decision No. 05.12, has unanimously passed the proposal to impose and recover a business tax pertaining to businesses mentioned
in the following schedule based on the annual value of such businesses for the year 2013.
NIRMAL SAMARASINGHE,
Chairman,
Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
17th day of September, 2012.
This industries tax should be paid on or before 31st March, 2013.
SCHEDULE No. 01
Type of the business/Industry Annual income Annual income Annual income
not exceeding from Rs. 750 over
Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,501
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Maintenance of a place of sewing garments 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. Maintenance of a sale of aluminium plastic items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Maintenance of a place of packing and selling tea powder and spices 300 0 350 0 500 0
04. Maintenance of a place of repairing bicycles 300 0 400 0 500 0
05. Maintenance of a place of rice mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Maintenance of a place of repairing motor cycles/three wheelers 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing cement bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Maintenance of a place of repairing tyre and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Maintenance of a place of repairing electrical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Maintenance of a coconut oil mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Maintenance of a place of repairing radios and televisions 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Maintenance of a place of lathe machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Maintenance of a printer using digital technology 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Maintenance of a carpentry workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Maintenance of a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Maintenance of a place of repairing watches 300 0 450 0 1,000 0
17. Maintenance of a place of making bobbins carving 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Maintenance of a place of burning or selling lime 300 0 600 0 750 0
19. Maintenance of a place of producing copra 300 0 400 0 600 0
20. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing and selling fireworks 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
21. Maintenance of a rubber factory 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
22. Maintenance of a place of repairing air conditioners and refrigerators 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Maintenance of a place of making coir products such as brooms and 300 0 450 0 600 0
door mats
24. Maintenance of a place of repairing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Maintenance of a place of gold and silver plating of metal 300 0 400 0 600 0
26. Maintenance of a place of cutting and polishing gems 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Maintenance of a factory of manufacturing plastic and fiber glass 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Maintenance of a saw mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Maintenance of a metal crusher 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Maintenance of a place fo chilling milk 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–1153/2

<!-- page 82 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1402
DICKWELLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Licence charges - 2013
IT has been noticed to the public, that the following proposal is seconded, under the decision No. 6.1.5(4) of the meeting, hel d on 28th
August, 2012 by the Pradeshiya Sabha Dickwella.
It has been further noticed, that the licence charges for the year 2013, should be paid before 31st March to the Pradeshiya Sabha
Office and the licence should be obtained.
KRISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman,
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
PROPOSAL
According to the authority, obtained by paragraph (a) of sub-article (1) of article 147 (which should be read with article 149) in
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15-1987.
It is proposed to call to order for laying down a licence tax for an industry, mentioned in above sub-register, situated in
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha area, and if the annual value belongs to the limits of Column II and which doing this industry based  on a
licence for 2013, and
It is proposed to call to order for getting a valid licence for an industry, held on 1st December, 2012 by the person who is doing
the industry valid for the date before 31st March, 2013 to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 31st March, 2013.
SUB-LIST
1st Column IInd Column
Annual value
Up to Greater than Greater than
Industry Rs.750 Rs. 750 less than Rs.1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Selling of food items by tourist selers 250 0 300 0 500 0
02. Marketing of food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. Tea/coffe shops 300 0 400 0 500 0
04. Bakery 300 0 500 0 750 0
05. Animal farm 300 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. Granite mill 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
07. Crushing granite 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Machinery carpentary shops 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
09. Coir mills 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
10. Storing animal food 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
11. Saloon 300 0 500 0 700 0
12. A garage 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
13. Selling pharmaceutical drugs 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Coconut oil mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Storng/selling gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Furnace of bricks 300 0 500 0 800 0
17. An iron mill 300 0 400 0 500 0
18. Places - iron converts to nickel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Selling agro-chemicals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. A cinema hall 600 0 800 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 83 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1403
21. Vehicle service station 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Resthouse 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
23. Workshop of boats 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
24. Place - marketing backery products 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
25. Production of curd/selling 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
26. Place - production of cement items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Tinker workshop 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
28. Fuel filling station 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
29. Selling fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Selling meat 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Soft drink industries 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
32. Milk farms 200 0 300 0 400 0
33. Ice industries 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
34. Restaurants/eating shops 300 0 500 0 750 0
35. Hotels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Lodges 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
37. Laundary 200 0 300 0 500 0
38. Providing funeral services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Public fair 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Paultry farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Rice mills 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Production of steel furniture 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. Prodi 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. production of papadam, noodles and other food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. Production of sweets 200 0 300 0 500 0
46. Timber mills 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Selling diesal, petral and kerosene oil 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. Wood workshops (carpentary) 500 0 600 0 1,000 0
49. Velding workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Selling food items whcih can be spoiled 200 0 400 0 600 0
51. Selling food items by storing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Repairing three wheelers 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
11–977/4
–––––––––––––––––––
DICKWELLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Industry Tax - 2013
IT has been noticed to the public, that the following proposal is seconded, under the decision No. 6.1.5(5) of the meeting, hel d on 28th
August, 2012 by the Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
It has been further noticed, that the industry tax for the year 2013, should be paid to the Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha before 31st
March of this year.
KRISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman,
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
1st Column IInd Column
Annual value
Up to Greater than Greater than
Industry Rs.750 Rs. 750 less than Rs.1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 84 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1404
PROPOSAL
According to the authority given under the sub-article (1) of article 150 in Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to the
Pradeshiya Sabha, it has been proposed by the DIckwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
(a) To tax an idnsutry tax and charge for an industry located in DIckwella Pradeshiya Sabha area, conducting in year 2013,
mentioned in Ist column of following sub-list and according to the annual value indicated in IInd column.
(b) To order the person doing on industry to pay above tax for an industry that had been there on 31st December, 2012,
before 31st March, 2013.
(c) To order the person who is going to start an industry in year 2013, to pay above tax at the begining of the industry.
SUB-LIST
1st Column IInd Column
Annual value
Up to Greater than Greater than
Industry Rs.750 Rs. 750 less than Rs.1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Repairing sewing machines 300 0 400 0 500 0
2. Place of repairing bicycles 200 0 300 0 500 0
3. Repairing watches 250 0 350 0 500 0
4. Place of picture framing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Repairing and storing tyre, tube 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
6. Repairing computers 300 0 400 0 500 0
7. Repairing electric appliances 400 0 500 0 750 0
8. Repairing radio and television 400 0 500 0 750 0
9. Packing dry food items 300 0 600 0 900 0
10. Place of repairing mobile phones 400 0 500 0 600 0
11. Place of making notice boards and name plates 400 0 500 0 600 0
12. Wood carving workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Coconut timber mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Repairing and fixing lorry bodies 100 0 200 0 300 0
15. Tailor shops :
(i) 1-5 machines 300 0 400 0 500 0
(ii) More than 5 machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Cushion workshops 250 0 500 0 1,000 0
17. Production and selling shoes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. A press 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–977/5
–––––––––––––––––––
DICKWELLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Taxes of Business - 2013
IT has been noticed to the public, that the following proposal is seconded, under the decision No. 6.1.5(6) of the meeting, hel d on 28th
August, 2012 by the Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 85 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1405
It has been further noticed, that the business tax for the year 2013, should be paid before 31st March of this year to the
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
KRISHALI MUTHUKUMARANA,
Chairman,
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha,
23rd October, 2012.
PROPOSAL
According to the authority given to the Pradeshiya Sabha under sub-article (1) of article 152 in Pradeshiya Sabha act, No. 15-
1987, under the orders of this Act or its certain sub-constition, it is proposed to charge a business tax from each and every p erson doing
a business in Dickwella Pradeshiya Sabha area in year 2013 for a business that it is not needed to get a licence or not needed to pay a tax
under the article 150 of this act and a non professional one and when the business income of the previous year belongs to the limtis of the
mentioned subjects in 1st column of the following sub-list and the amounts of the IInd column.
SUB-LIST
1st Column IInd Column
Annual value
Up to Greater than Greater than
Industry Rs.750 Rs. 750 less than Rs.1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Storing old metal equipments 300 0 500 0 750 0
02. Selling "Pooja Bhanda" 300 0 500 0 750 0
03. Gem business 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Shopping godds business 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Selling leather bags and nets 250 0 350 0 500 0
06. Place of selling cement 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
07. Marketing sewing machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
08. Aluminium/plastic business 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
09. Book shop 300 0 500 0 700 0
10. Rentout function items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Place of selling betel and arecanut 200 0 400 0 600 0
12. Textile shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Fancy shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Place of selling electrical items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. Bicycle shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Place of selling glass 400 0 600 0 1,000 0
17. Storing tyres and tubes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Place of selling paints 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. Place of buying copra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
20. Place of selling lottery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Place of selling clay pots 300 0 400 0 500 0
22. Classifying lubricant oil 400 0 600 0 1,000 0
23. Selling tiles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Selling bronze items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. A private shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. A monteisoory by charging money 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Aplace of selling motor bikes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
28. Selling spare parts 400 0 600 0 800 0
29. Photocopy and telephone services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Selling newspapers 400 0 500 0 600 0
31. Selling iron items and building materials 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 86 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1406
32. Place of selling fishing gears 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. School/stationary shop 400 0 600 0 800 0
34. Selling sand/bricks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. Timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. Selling fruits 300 0 400 0 500 0
37. Selling vegetables 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
38. Selling furnitures 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. Storing roof tiles/cement/iron 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. Rentout function items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. Medical centres 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. Computer courses 200 0 400 0 600 0
43. Place of storing timber 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. Repairig and fixing lorry bodies 100 0 200 0 300 0
45. Selling ornaments 300 0 500 0 750 0
46. Rentout video pieces 250 0 300 0 500 0
47. Selling shoes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. Storing and selling food items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Selling bunches of banana 200 0 300 0 500 0
50. Opticians 500 0 650 0 750 0
51. Selling spare parts of electrical applience 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
It should be paid 50% Rupees for one cubic feet of a refregerator, used for storing and selling different food items.
It should be paid 25% Rupees for one cubic feet of a refregerator, used for selling fish and meat.
S
ECOND PART
Serial No. 1st Column 2nd Column
Income of year 2012 Rs. cts.
(i) Not exceeding Rs. 6,000 No
(ii) Exceeding Rs. 6,000 but not exceeding Rs. 12,000 90 0
(iii) Exceeding Rs. 12,000 but not exceeding Rs. 18,750 180 0
(iv) Exceeding Rs. 18,750 but not exceeding Rs. 75,000 360 0
(v) Exceeding Rs. 75,000 but not exceeding Rs. 150,000 1,200 0
(vi) Exceeding Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
These business taxes relevant to  :
1. Mortgagey
2. Suppliers
3. Auctioneers
4. Bank agents and insurance agents
5. Hotels, guest houses, wedding halls registered in the tourist board
6. Organizations of job agencies
7. Race booky
8. Private tution classes
9. Contractors/Brokers
10. Driving learners
11. Liquor shops
12. Garments
1st Column IInd Column
Annual value
Up to Greater than Greater than
Industry Rs.750 Rs. 750 less than Rs.1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 87 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1407
13. Selling motor spare parts
14. Place of selling hardwares in large scale
15. Commission agents
16. Brokers
17. Money lenders
18. Transport agents
19. Notary publics
20. Investors
21. Insuarance agents
22. Owners of vehicle sales
23. Maintain a telephone tower.
11–977/6
–––––––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Impose of Licensing Fees for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following suggestions had been passed at the Pradeshiya sabha meeting held on 25th October, 2012 in terms
of the powers vested in Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha under the Section 147 that should be read with Section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987.
H. A. LAKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
“It is proposed to impose and recover licensing fees as stated in the correspondent note of 2nd Column in the schedule hereto,
in the event of issuing license in Year 2013 by the Pradeshiya Sabha to utilized any premises within the territory of Pelmadulla Pradeshiya
Sabha for any purpose stated in the 1st Column of Scheduel hereto and described in a By-law established under the provisions of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.”
S
CHEDULE
1st Column 2nd Column
Annual value of the premises
Where not Where Rs. 750 Where
Seril Nature of the Industry exceeding exceeding however Exceeding
No. Rs. 750 not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 Maintaining of a lodge 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
02 Maintaining of a hotel or canteen 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
03 Maintaining of a bakery 500 0 800 0 1,000 0
04 Maintaining of a tea shop or coffee shop 400 0 600 0 1,000 0
05 Maintaining of a dairy 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
06 Selling fish 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
07 Selling milk 450 0 700 0 1,000 0
08 Maintaining of a laundry 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
09 Selling milk 300 0 400 0 1,000 0
10 Maintaining of a rice boutique 400 0 650 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 88 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1408
11 Maintaining of a selling cool drinks 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Maintaining of a cattle shed 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
13 Mobile selling 600 0 800 0 1,000 0
14 Maintaining of a slaughter house 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
15 Maintaining of a baber saloon 400 0 500 0 1,000 0
16 Tibmer sawing by machinery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17 Maintaining of a wooden products manufacturing 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
18 Granite excavation or breaking 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
19 Maintaining of a rice mill/grinding mill 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
20 Mobile selling of license bakery products 600 0 850 0 1,000 0
11–1104/5
––––––––––––––––
NARAMMALA   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Industrial Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following resolution moved at the General Council held on 28th August , 2012 at
the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala has been adopted by virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala under Section 150 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
The Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala.
Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala,
29th August, 2012.
THE AFORESAID RESOLUTION
I do hereby propose to impose and levy an Industrial Tax for each industry  carried out in a premises within the area of authority
of Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala, referred to in the Column I as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column II of the sa me
Schedule in terms of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under  Sub section (1) of Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 1 5 of
1987.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Serial In case the In case the In case the
No. Nature of the Industry annual value annual value annual value
of the place of the place exceeds
does not  exceed exceeds Rs. 1,501
Rs. 750 Rs. 751 and less
than Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. Electrically operated press 400 0 650 0 1,000 0
02. Manually operated press 300 0 500 0 750 0
03. Kilning bricks/tiles without using machineries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
04. Recharging batteries 300 0 500 0 800 0
05. Running a place for repairing tyres and tubes 300 0 500 0 750 0
06. Running a place for sawing timber by manually operated machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
1st Column 2nd Column
Annual value of the premises
Where not Where Rs. 750 Where
Seril Nature of the Industry exceeding exceeding however Exceeding
No. Rs. 750 not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 89 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1409
07. Running a place for repairing bicycles 300 0 500 0 750 0
08. Running a fire wood shed 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
09. Running a lime kiln 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a place for repairing motor bicycles 300 0 500 0 750 0
11. Running a place for manufacturing ecle brooms and brooms 300 0 600 0 800 0
12. Running a carpenter shed (manually operated machines) 300 0 600 0 800 0
13. Servicing motor bicycles/three wheels 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Manufacture of glass products 400 0 650 0 800 0
15. Manufacture and sale of masks 400 0 650 0 1,000 0
16. Manufacture of brake liners 300 0 500 0 750 0
17. Manufacture of shoes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Running a place for framing pictures 300 0 500 0 750 0
19. Running a place for manufacture and sale of clay products 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
20. Manufacture and sale of concrete blocks, cylinders or other 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
concrete products
21. Running a place for manufacturing/storing gold  jewelleries 300 0 600 0 800 0
22. running a place for making garments
(i) More than one machine but less than five 400 0 600 0 800 0
(ii) More than 5 machines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Running a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Manufacture of candles and incense sticks 300 0 500 0 750 0
25. Cultivating and packeting of mushrooms 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. Running a place for twisting ropes 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
27. Manufacture and sale of fabric carpets 300 0 500 0 750 0
28. Manufacture and sale of papadam 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Chopping Coconut for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. Manufacture of cigars and beedi 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. Running a place for bottling ayurvedic medicines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. Running a motor garage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
33. Manufacture of copra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
34. Running an iron smithy 300 0 600 0 800 0
35. Running a grinding mill for chillies, spices and grains 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. A paddy mill (without a compound) 350 0 600 0 800 0
37. A paddy mill of 1-20 of horse power (with a compound) 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
38. A Paddy mill more than 20 horse power (with a compound) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. A place for weaving textiles manually/electrically 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. A place for tin work 400 0 600 0 800 0
41. A place for manufacturing furniture 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
42. A place for repairing radios/televisions 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
43. Repair of electrical items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. A place milling coconut by machines for hire 400 0 600 0 800 0
45. Running a soap factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. Industry of converting iron into nickel 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. Batik Industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
48. Manufacture and sale of sports items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
49. Repair of injector pumps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
50. Manufacture and sale of flower pots 400 0 600 0 800 0
51. Manufacture and sale of soap 400 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. Running an animal farm (chicken, Pigs, goats, cattle) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–956/3
Column I Column II
Serial In case the In case the In case the
No. Nature of the Industry annual value annual value annual value
of the place of the place exceeds
does not  exceed exceeds Rs. 1,501
Rs. 750 Rs. 751 and less
than Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 90 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1410
NARAMMALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing business Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following resolution moved at the General Council held on 28th August  2012 in
the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala has been adopted by virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala under Section 147 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala.
Narammala Pradeshiya Sabha,
29th August, 2012.
THE AFORESAID RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala by Section 147 to be read with section 149 of Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No.
15 of 1987, I do hereby propose to levy be imposed for the year 2013 in respect of any license issued by authorizing any premises within
the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala to be utilized as per the rates specified in the corresponding part II for any task indicating i n the part
I of the following schedule described in the said Act or in any By Law made under the said Act.
SCHEDULE
Column I Column II
Serial In case the In case the In case the
No. Nature of the license annual value annual value annual value
of the place of the place exceeds
does not  exceed exceeds Rs. 1,501
Rs. 750 Rs. 750 and does
not exceed
 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. For a restaurant or an eating house 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
02. For bakeries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
03. For a tea or coffee boutique 200 0 400 0 600 0
04. Sale of chicken packed in nontransparent containers
bearing a seal of a recognized registered business institute 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
05. Sale of fresh fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
06. For a itinerant vendor 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
07. Running a barber shop 300 0 500 0 750 0
08. Running a place for cleaning cloths (laundry) 300 0 500 0 750 0
09. Sale of meat
(01) Beef 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
(02) Mutton 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
(03) Pork 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
(04) Chicken 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Running a guest house (a lodge) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Frozen stores for business 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
12. Sale of food 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. Servicing motor vehicles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. Manufacture/store/sale of coffins 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
15. A place for storing/selling gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
16. Sale of agro chemicals and fertilizer 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. Running a flower service center for funerals and weddings 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Blasting quarry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
19. A iron smithy using oxygen 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 91 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1411
20. A welding forge 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. A timber mill operated by machiners 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. Lath machine 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
23. Running a coir mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. Industry of cutting coconut husks 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. Transport of meat outside the area of authority 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–956/5
–––––––––––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA  - NARAMMALA
IT is hereby notified that the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala has decided on an adoption of resolution moved at the meeting on 28th August
2012 to levy following charges for issue of certificates, provide services and other charges for year 2013 in terms of powers vested in the
Pradeshiya Sabha by Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha - Narammala.
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala,
29th August, 2012.
Rs. cents
01. Issuing of Street lines and certificates of Non acquistion, certificate on limits of buildings and
certificates of the title 700 0
02. Fees for transferring the ownership of property application for alteration of names appeared
in the Assessment Register and other services 100 0
03. Issuing of certificates of conformity of building 300 0
04. Extension of valid period of building applications 200 0
05. For a building application 300 0
06. Fees for constructing buildings - levying fees in terms of the Gazette Paper No. 1,597/8 dated
17.04.2009 of Urban Development Authority -
07. A application for felling dangerous trees 200 0
08. Application for Environmental License and reneval 100 0
09. Application for blocking out lands 1,000 0
10. Fine on dishonored cheque 100 0
11. Fees for approval  of survey plans 300 0
12. Fees on environmental license 1,250 0
Where the investment in Rs. 10,000 250 0
Where the investment in from Rs. 10,001 up to 100,000 500 0
Where the investment in from Rs. 100,001 up to 500,000 1,250 0
Where the investment in from Rs. 500,001 up to 1,000,000 2,500 0
Where the investment in more than 1,000,000 5,000 0
13. Missing books (for readers price of the book + 40%)
(for the staff - current price of the book)
Column I Column II
Serial In case the In case the In case the
No. Nature of the Industry annual value annual value annual value
of the place of the place exceeds
does not  exceed exceeds Rs. 1,501
Rs. 750 Rs. 750 and does
not exceed
 Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 92 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1412
14. Obtaining extracts of the Assessment Register for an assessment document in respect of a property 200 0
15. For copies of missing certificates 200 0
16. Registration of suppliers 500 0
17. Levying fees from vehicles parks in the bus stand - tickets 25 0
SCHEDULE  No. 01
RENT OUT THE COMMUNITY HALLS, BOYAWALANA AND ALAWWA
Serial Reason Rent Fee Electricity and Surety
No. water
Rs. cents Rs. cents Rs. cents
01 For a book exhibition
01.  First day 4,000 0 – –
02. Second day 2,500 0 1,000 0 5,000 0
03. Third day 1,000 0 - -
02. A function of disabled people 1,000 0 500 0 1,000 0
03. For a commercial and business exhibition 5,000 0 500 0 5,000 0
04. Commercial fair 5,000 0 500 0 5,000 0
05. Prize Giving Ceremony 1,000 0 500 0 1,000 0
06. For beauty culture exhibition 2,000 0 1,000 0 1,500 0
07. A wedding (within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha) 7,000 0 1,000 0 2,000 0
08. A wedding (outside the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha) 10,000 0 1,000 0 2,000 0
09. A wedding (hotel owners) 10,000 0 1,000 0 2,500 0
10. A meeting with get together 2,500 0 500 0 2,000 0
11. Educational seminar (not levying fees) 1,000 0 500 0 -
12. Educational seminar (levying fees) 1,500 0 500 0 -
13. Pre school function 500 0 500 0 -
14. Karate Classes 500 0 500 0 -
15. For alms giving function 1,000 0 500 0 1,000 0
16. Dramas/musical shows 5,000 0 1,000 0 5,000 0
17. Awareness programs on self employments 1,000 0 500 0 1,000 0
R
ENTING OUT PUBLIC PLAY GROUNDS
Description Rent fee Surety
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01. All kinds of public meetings 500 0 1,000 0
02. Musical shows or other activities of such manner/Sport functions or
ceremonies conducted by levying Fees 5,000 0 1,000 0
03. Musical shows or other activities of such manner/Sport functions or
ceremonies conducted free of charges 1,000 0 1,000 0
04. Commercial fairs 5,000 0 2,000 0
Other out side places than public play grounds belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha. Rs. 27.50 per one square feet. In addition to these
fees taxes imposed by the government should be paid.
11-956/7
Rs. cents

<!-- page 93 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1413
PANNALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Charges for Building Construction - 2013
I declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly on 25.09.2012 to levy charges given below in 2013 for building appli cation,
building construction, unnecessary construction and building certificate within the limits of Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha under the provision
given by Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
1. To approve building plan Rs. 1,000
Siz of the building - square feet Charge per square feet
Residence Business
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Less than 1,000 75 1  0
1,001 - 2,000 1  0 1 50
2,001 - 3,000 1 50 2  0
3,001 - 5,000 2  0 3  0
5,001 - 10,000 3  0 5  0
More than 10,000 5  0 10  0
2. Following charges will be levied for approving non-approved constructions which could be legally approved.
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
(a) If the foundation is laid completely per square feet 1 50 2  0
(b) If partly constructed per square feet 2  0 2 50
(c) If construction is completed per square feet 3  0 3 50
3. Charge for regular approval for a building 1,000 0
4. Surveyor plan approval 500 0
5. To extend building application by one year  1,000 0
L. M. S. K. R
ANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/9
–––––––––––––––––––––––
PANNALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
THIS is to declare the decision 03/06 taken at the General Assembly to collect fees for certificates issued and for lending ass ets of the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the details given below under the authority given by the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987.
Rs. cts.
1. Road certificate, ownership certificate and non-resalable certificate fee 600 0
2. Revenue tax or agriculture tax ownership revaluation charge 1,000 0
3. Complain application for hazardous trees 500 0
4. Rental for public play ground within the Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha limits :

<!-- page 94 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1414
Grade 1 Palyground Grade 2 Playground
per a day per day
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. For Pannala, Makandura, Maththegama, Narangoda, public playgrounds 3,000 0
2. For Katugampola, Edape, Werahera Lacksmy Janapadaya, Udurawala, 2,000 0
Napiruthtankadawara, Walakumburumulla, Bopitiya, Medawatta,
Ingaradaula, Paragammana, Welauda Maholawa, Elivila, Elibichchiya
public playgrounds
3. Public Land Per day For every
exceeding day
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
(i) Giriulla, Pannala, Makandura bus stations 5,000 0 1,000 0
(ii) Giriulla supermarket land, Giriulla public vehicle park, Pannala 5,000 0 1,000 0
Pradeshiya Sabha's Fair
If rented for a long period Grade - 1 playground Grade - 2 playground
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
For each exceedings days 1,000 0 500 0
5. Parking vehicles in the vehicle park approved by Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha - Rs. cts.
(i) Charge for bus per month 200 0
(ii) Charge for lorry per month 200 0
(iii) Charge for a tipper per month 200 0
(iv) Charge for a van per month 200 0
(v) Charge for tractor with trailer 200 0
(vi) For a three wheeler 100 0
(vii) For a car 100 0
(viii) Hand tractor 100 0
(ix) Double cab 100 0
6. Registration fee to park in an park approved by Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha is 5,000 0
7. If settled at once for a month, usage charge for bus stands at Pannala, Giriulla
and Makandura is Rs. 1,000 or if paid daily Rs. 50 will be charged.
8. Charges for using Town Hall - Pannala Town Hall
Security 6 hours or Above 6 hours Above 12 hours,
Bond less than and less than 24 hours or less
6 hours 12 hours than 24 hours
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Stage shows, cinema shows and magic shows which 4,000 0 2,500 0 5,000 0 7,500 0
charge a fee
Wedding Reception 4,000 0 – 5,000 0 7,500 0
Training classes, educational seminars, lectures, political 4,000 0 750 0 1,500 0 3,000 0
events pre-school concerts and other events which
charge a fee
Commercial exhibition and sale 4,000 0 2,000 0 4,000 0 6,000 0
8.2 Levying charges for using Town Hall - Giriulla Town Hall
Security 6 hours or Above 6 hours Above 12 hours,
Bond less than and less than 24 hours or less
6 hours 12 hours than 24 hours
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Stage shows, cinema shows and magic shows which 8,000 0 5,000 0 10,000 0 13,000 0
charge a fee
Wedding Reception 8,000 0 4,000 0 8,000 0 12,000 0
Training classes, educational seminars, lectures, political 8,000 0 1,500 0 3,000 0 6,000 0
events pre-school concerts and other events which
charge a fee
Commercial exhibition and sale 8 ,000 0 3,000 0 6,000 0 12,000 0

<!-- page 95 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1415
8.3 Charges for using public address system at the town hall, national flag and the Buddhist flag.
12 hours or Above 12 hours
less than and less than
12 hours 24 hours
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Hiring public addressing system for functions, exhibitions, public lectures or any other 600 0 900 0
events conducted in the Town Hall
Hiring National flag or Buddhist flag for functions, exhibitions, gatherings or any other 20 0 30 0
 events conducted in the Town Hall
Flag post 20 0 30 0
L. M. S. K. RANJITH LANSAKARA,
Chairman,
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha,
27th September, 2012.
11–1069/10
–––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Industrial Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public that the following resolution was accepted under Decision No. 04-ii by the Pelmadulla Prade shiya
Sabha at the meeting held on 25th October, 2012.
Further it is notified that the Industrial Tax imposed for the year 2013 should be paid to the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha office
before 30th day of April, 2013.
H. A. LAKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Sub-section 150(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha has proposed to be imposed and levied and Industrial Tax for the year 2013 regarding each industry
mentioned in the Column I of the schedule below and maintained within the jurisdiction of Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha as per ra tes
illustrated in the Column II corresponding annual value of the place where each industry maintained and the tax should be paid to the
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th day of April, 2013 by the person who is liable to pay the tax.

<!-- page 96 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1416
THE SCHEDULE
1st Column 2nd Column
Annual value of the premises
Serial Nature of Industry Where not Where exceeding Where
No. exceeding Rs. 750 however exceeding
Rs. 750 not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
01 Selling fruits 300 0 350 0 1,000 0
02 Selling vegetables 250 0 300 0 1,000 0
03 Manufacturing and selling ice cream 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
04 Running a private shop 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
05 Packeting and selliing of spices 250 0 300 0 1,000 0
06 Selling agro chemicals 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
07 Selling tyre tubes 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
08 Selling beetle leaf and tobacco leaf 450 0 550 0 1,000 0
09 Selling of cement products 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
10 Running place of selling roofing tiles 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
11 Selling aluminium, glass and ceramic items 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
12 Selling books, stationery and school equipmetns 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
13 Manufacture and selling furniture 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
14 Selling and parching of gems 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
15 Maintaining a studio 450 0 750 0 1,000 0
16 Collecting and selling of rubber 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
17 Running a tailor shop 400 0 650 0 1,000 0
18 Manufacturing and selling of fancy items 300 0 550 0 1,000 0
19 Selling dry foods and grocery items 450 0 650 0 1,000 0
20 Maintaining a timber trade centre 550 0 800 0 1,000 0
21 Storing and selling of arecanut 300 0 550 0 1,000 0
22 Maintaining a rubber smoking house or rubber roller 350 0 650 0 1,000 0
23 Manufacturing and selling of bicycle and motor vehicles 550 0 800 0 1,000 0
24 Manufacturing and selling of yogurt 450 0 650 0 1,000 0
25 Manufacturing and selling of creativity items 350 0 550 0 1,000 0
26 Selling of flower plants 250 0 550 0 1,000 0
27 Manufacturing soap 450 0 600 0 1,000 0
28 Selling of gem mine equipments 450 0 750 0 1,000 0
29 Manfuacturing a granite excavation or breaking granite 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
30 Maintaining a grocery 450 0 650 0 1,000 0
31 Manufacturing and selling of cool drinks 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
32 Selling of plastic goods 300 0 600 0 1,000 0
33 Preparing name boards 400 0 450 0 1,000 0
34 Selling general purpose items 450 0 650 0 1,000 0
35 Selling firewood 350 0 400 0 1,000 0
36 Selling brooms and brushes 300 0 350 0 1,000 0
37 Manufacturing and selling of jeweleries 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
38 Marinating a ion or steel shop 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
39 Selling spare parts of vehicles 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
40 Manufacture and selling clay products 300 0 350 0 1,000 0
41 Manfuacture and selling of bicycle 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
42 Running a paints and varnish shop 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
43 Maintaining a liquor shop 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
44 Selling ayurvedic medicine 350 0 650 0 1,000 0
45 Running a pharmacy 450 0 650 0 1,000 0
46 Malting place of selling foot wears 450 0 750 0 1,000 0
47 Maintain place of selling electric equipments 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
48 Maintain place for a fertilizer and agro tools 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
49 Maintain place of building items 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
50 Maintain place of flower hall 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
51 Maintain place of textile 450 0 650 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 97 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1417
52 Running an agency of foreign employment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
53 Maintain place of selling eye-glass 250 0 400 0 1,000 0
54 Maintain place of selling and storing gas cylinders 250 0 300 0 1,000 0
55 Maintain place of computer and photocopy service 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
56 maintain place of collecting and selling tea leaf 550 0 750 0 1,000 0
57 maintian place of notice board painting and printing 450 0 650 0 1,000 0
58 maintain place of selling of lotteries 250 0 450 0 1,000 0
59 Manufacture and selling of animal foods 250 0 350 0 1,000 0
60 Maintain place of stainless steel workshop 400 0 700 0 1,000 0
61 Maintain place of iron works 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
62 Running a place for selling dry fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63 maintain place of nursery or tea planst or other planst 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
64 Maitain place of repairing watches 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
65 Mintain place of selling cut piece of cloths 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66 Maintain place of gym centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
67 Running place for astrology services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68 Maintain a place for duplicate key cuttings 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
69 Maintain place of artificial tooth products 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
70 Running a place for CD and cassette recording centre 450 0 650 0 1,000 0
71 Running a place for gem mine timber items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
72 Maintain place for welding plants 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
73 Running a cinema theater 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
74 Maintaining a place for repairing vehicle 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
75 Maintaining a place for repairing footwear 350 0 650 0 1,000 0
76 Running a place for repairing electrical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
77 Running a place for gem cutting and polishing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
78 Maintaining a place for collecting old newspapers, bottle and iron items 300 0 650 0 1,000 0
79 Manufacturing and selling mushroom 300 0 750 0 1,000 0
80 Selling and repairing of mobile phones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
81 Running a day care centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
82 Running a private education institution 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
83 Running a garment 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
84 Running a ceremony goods hiring centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
85 Running a place catering service for ceremony 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
86 Maintaining a place for vehicle service 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
87 Maintaining a place for beetle leafs and arecanut wholesale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
88 Selling computer and computer parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
89 Running a laundry 350 0 750 0 1,000 0
90 Maintaining a place for workshop item selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
91 Maintain a place for gift items selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
92 Maintain a place for selling paints 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
93 Running a place for internet service center 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
94 Manufacturing and selling of sweet items 300 0 650 0 1,000 0
95 Running a tyre centre 400 0 650 0 1,000 0
96 Maintaining a place for selling baby items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
97 Maintaining a place for selling animal foods 400 0 650 0 1,000 0
98 Running a place for aquarium and selling pets 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
99 Running a place for sand mine and selling 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
100 Running a place for photo framing and selling glass 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11–1104/3
1st Column 2nd Column
Annual value of the premises
Serial Nature of Industry Where not Where exceeding Where
No. exceeding Rs. 750 however exceeding
Rs. 750 not exceeding Rs. 1,500
Rs. 1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 98 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1418
THIHAGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Business Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified that by virtue of powers vested in Thihagoda
Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 150 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.
15 of 1987, the Sabha at its monthly meting held on 28.08.2012
under decision No. 05.12, has unanimously passed the proposal to
impose and recover a business tax mentioned in the first Schedule
on the previous year income of businesses mentioned in the second
Schedule for the year 2013.
N
IRMAL SAMARASINGHE,
Chairman,
Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
17th day of September, 2012.
These business taxes should be paid on or before 30th June,
2013.
1ST SCHEDULE
Income of the business Tax to be paid
Rs. cts.
01. From Rs. 6,001 to Rs. 12,000 90 0
02. From Rs. 12,001 to Rs. 18,750 180 0
03. From Rs. 18,751 to Rs. 75,000 360 0
04. From Rs. 75,001 to Rs. 100,000 600 0
05. From Rs. 100,001 to Rs. 125,000 1,200 0
06. From Rs. 125,001 to Rs. 150,000 2,000 0
07. Over Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
2ND SCHEDULE
01. Maintenance of a textile or ready made garments shop
02. Maintenance of a fancy items shop
03. Maintenance of shoe shop
04. Maintenance of a communication center
05. Maintenance of a studio
06. Maintenance of a colour laboratory
07. Maintenance of a tea processing center for export
08. Maintenance of a colleting center of raw tea leaves
09. Maintenance of a business of selling building materials
10. Maintenance of a fitness center
11. Maintenance of a place of selling paints
12. Maintenance of a hardware
13. Maintenance of a private tuition institute
14. Maintenance of a montessori and day care center
15. Maintenance of a computer software development center
16. Maintenance of a computer training programmes
17. Maintenance of a astrology service center
18. Maintenance of a driving training institute
19. Maintenance of a plant nursery
20. Maintenance of a place of selling ayurvedic drugs
21. Maintenance of a pharmacy
22. Maintenance of a company of providing telephone services
23. Maintenance of a dispensary
24. Maintenance of a medical laboratory
25. Maintenance of a animal clinic
26. Maintenance of a firm of prividing Attorney and Notary Public
Services
27. Maintenance of a firm of prividing Auditing or Accounting
services
28. Maintenance of a bank
29. Maintenance of a firm of prividing insurance services
30. Maintenance of a firm of prividing leasing services
31. Maintenance of a firm of prividing surveying services
32. Maintenance of a firm of prividing architecture services
33. Maintenance of a firm of prividing architecture services
34. Maintenance of a firm of prividing engineering services
35. Maintenance of a firm of prividing medical specialist services
36. Maintenance of a private hospital
37. Maintenance of a garment factory
38. Maintenance of a place of selling jewellery
39. Maintenance of a place of selling computers and accessories
40. Maintenance of a place of selling timber furniture
41. Maintenance of an advertising firm
42. Maintenance of a renting service of festive items
43. Maintenance of a shop of spectacles
44. Maintenance of a lottery agency
45. Maintenance of a place of selling earthen ware
46. Maintenance of a betting center
47. Maintenance of an agency post office
48. Places of picture framing and glass cutting
49. Maintenance of a place of purchasing rubber/cinnamon
50. Maintenance of a place of providing telephone services
51. Maintenance of a place of selling mobile phones
52. Maintenance of a jog agency
53. Maintenance of a pawning center
54. Maintenance of a place of selling or hiring videos and CDs
55. Maintenance of a shop of books or stationery
56. Maintenance of a timber sale center
57. Maintenance of a retail trade shop
58. Maintenance of a place of selling musical or sport item
59. Maintenance of a places hired as stores
60. Maintenance of a place of selling goods at whole sale
61. Maintenance of a place of selling electrical equipments
62. Agents or distributors of leading companies
63. Maintenance of a place of displaying and selling goods of leading
companies
64. Maintenance of a place of selling vehicles
65. Maintenance of a place of selling motor cycles and three
wheelers
66. Maintenance of a place of selling push bicycles
67. Maintenance of a place of selling spare parts of vehicles
68. Maintenance of a place of selling spare parts of motor cycles
and three wheelers
69. Maintenance of a filling station
70. Maintenance of a place of selling arrack and beer
71. Maintenance of a cinema hall
72. Maintenance of a beauty culture center

<!-- page 99 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1419
73. Maintenance of a driving training institute
74. Maintenance of a place of purchasing and cutting gems
75. Maintenance of a foreign job agency
76. Maintenance of a food city
77. Maintenance of a place of selling prepaid telephone cards
78. Maintenance of a tea factory
79. Maintenance of a place of providing internet services
80. Maintenance of a place of selling ornamental fish
81. Maintenance of a place of retail selling spices, rice, sugar and
milk powder
82. Maintenance of a place of whole selling spices, rice, sugar and
milk powder
83. Maintenance of a place of selling chilled fish
84. Maintenance of a place of producing and selling yoghurt
85. Maintenance of a place of selling fertilizer
86. Maintenance of a place of providing funeral services
87. Maintenance of a place of producing and selling ice cream
88. Maintenance of a place of making confectionery
89. Maintenance of a place of storing old metal
90. Maintenance of a dental clinic
91. Maintenance of a place of selling agro chemicals
92. Maintenance of a place of charging batteries
93. Maintenance of a press (printer)
94. Maintenance of a place of storing and selling gas
11–1153/3
–––––––––––––––
THIHAGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Acreage Tax for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that by virtue of powers vested by Section
134(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, Thihagoda
Pradeshiya Sabha has unanimously decided under decision
No. 05:12 taken at its monthly meeting held on 28.08.2012 to
impose and recover an acreage tax of Rs. 50 from cultivated lands
containing in extent from 1 hectare to 5 hectare and Rs. 10 for every
exceeding hectare of cultivated lands situated within the area of
Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha and such tax should be paid in four
quarters respectively ending on 31st of March, 30th of June, 30th
of September and 31st of December of 2013.
N
IRMAL SAMARASINGHE,
Chairman,
Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
17th day of September, 2012.
11–1153/4
THIHAGODA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
ADVERTISEMENTS - VISIBLE  ENVIRONMENT
BY virtue of powers vested by Section 221(a) and 122-126 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, and under Sub-section 39
that Pradeshiya Sabha of Athureliya has accepted by a notification
in the Gazette No. 1,771 dated 10.08.2012 published by Hon.
Minister in Part IV(a) of the Local Government Gazette Extra
Ordinary No. 520/07 dated 23.08.1988, it is hereby notified that
the Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha has unanimously decided under
decision No. 05:13 taken at its monthly meeting held on 28.08.2012
to impose and recover rates mentioned in the following Schedule
for the display of advertisements (including banners) and
constructions within the limtis of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha area
with effect from 01.01.2013 until further amendment.
N
IRMAL SAMARASINGHE,
Chairman,
Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha,
17th day of September, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Advertisements description Fee for the
permit
Rs. cts.
01. For every sq. ft. of advertisement displayed 75 0
on a board per year
02. For advertisement carried by a person or
fixed to
(a) For every sq. ft. not exceeding 6 sq. ft. 10 0
(b) For every sq. ft. exceeding 6 sq. ft. 25 0
03. For every sq. ft. of an advertisement on a 10 0
wall or roof of any private or public building
to be seen for the public
11–1153/5
–––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Enforcement of Tax for Vehicles and Animals
for the Y ear 2013
IT is notified for the information of the public that the following
resolution has been adopted under decision No. 06 at the meeting of
the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha held on 25th October, 2012.

<!-- page 100 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1420
Accordingly all persons who possess any vehicle or animal who
shall be subject to this tax in the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha area
and possess them for more than 30 days shall be subject to this tax
and shall pay such tax to the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha for the
year 2013.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th November, 2012.
RESOLUTION
The Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha resolves under the powers
vested in it by virtue of Section 147 and 148 and Schedule 4 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 that all persons processing a
vehicle or an animal shall be liable to pay taxes specified in Schedule
I and II here under to the Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Item I Item II
Rs. cts.
(i) All vehicles other than a motor vehicle a motor 25  0
tricar, jin rickshaw, a bicycle or tricycle
(ii) All bicycles or tricycle or biycle car or bicvycle cart -
(a) If used for a commercial purpose 18  0
(b) If not used for commercial purpose 4  0
(iii) For all carts 10  0
(iv) For all hand carts 10  0
(v) For all rickshaws 7  0
(vi) For all horses, ponies and mules 15  0
(vii) For all elephants 50  0
(2) All infant vehicles, wheel barrows, hand carts used for
commercial purposes in rpivate places and hand carts not
used for commercial purposes the wheels of which do not
exceed 26 inches are exempted from this tax.
11–1104/6
–––––––––––––––
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Business Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified to the public that the following resolution
made under the motion No. 04-i at the general meeting held on 25th
October, 2012 in the Pradeshiya Sabha Pelmadulla has been passed.
It is further notified that the business tax for the year 2013 should
be paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 30th April of the year.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-
section I of Section 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
Pradeshiya Sabha Pelamdulla proposed to that levy be imposed for
the year 2013, a business tax from each person who maintains,
within the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha in 2013, any
business which is not a profession and for which a license should
not be obtained under provisions and By-laws made there under or
industrial tax which is not required to be paid under Section 150 of
the said Act, as per the rates specified in the corresponding Column
II, if the receipt in the previous year of the said business fall within
the limits of any object number indicated in the Column I of the
following Schedule and that the said business tax should be paid
before 30th April of 2013 by any person who is liable to pay the
said tax.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Income received from the business Tax payable
during the previous year the tax is relevant Rs. cts.
01. Where annual income does not exceed Rs. 6,000 No
02. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 6,000 but does 90 0
not exceed Rs. 12,000
03. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 12,000 but 180 0
does not exceed Rs. 18,750
04. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 18,750 but 360 0
does not exceed Rs. 75,000
05. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 75,000 but 1,200 0
does not exceed Rs. 150,000
06. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 150,000 3,000 0
Businesses subject to this business tax are mentiond below :
01. Commission agents
02. Option salesmen
03. Brokers
04. Financial investors
05. Money lenders
06. Contractors
07. Pawn brokers
08. Private education Institution holders
09. Auditors
10. Those who preparing house plans
11. Suppliers
12. Insurance agents
13. Transport agents
14. Owners of hiring taxis
15. Bank and insurance companies
16. Motor vehicle salesmen
17. Person training for driving
18. Notary Publics/Attorneys-at-law
19. Gem trade businessmen
20. Contacting of private medical centers and nursing home.
11–1104/4

<!-- page 101 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1421
PELMADULLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposition of Forms Fee and Other Fees for the Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha has decided
under its Sabha decision No. 24 taken at the special general meeting
held on 25.10.2012 to impose and recover fes as forms and other
document fees and taxes mentioned in the following Schedule for
the year 2013 with effect from 01st January, 2013.
H. A. L
AKSHMAN PREMARATHNA,
Chairman,
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Pelmadulla Pradeshiya Sabha,
05th November, 2012.
SCHEDULE
Rs. cts.
01. Changing names in the Assessment Register 500  0
02. Issuing of certificate of street lines, certificate 1,000 0
on limits of buildings
03. Certificate registered in the Assessment Register 500  0
04. Issuing of certificate of water supply 250  0
05. Certificate for damaging the road for laying 250  0
pipeline for water supply
06. For a copy of certificate 100  0
07. For a copy of lost certificate more than 2 years 50  0
(per year)
08. Certificate non registered in the Assessment Register 100  0
09. Building application fee 200  0
10. Fee for extent of building :
1st floor per foot 3  0
2nd floor per foot 2  0
3rd and more floor per foot 2  0
11. Removal of dangerous trees 300  0
12. Hiring water browser with (5,000L) per day 5,000  0
13. Examination fee environment certificate 750  0
14. Fee for sales promotion activities 1,000  0
15. Crematorium service fee :
Pradeshiya Sabha area 7,000  0
Outside of Pradeshiya Sabha aera 8,000  0
16. Gale browser service fee :
For institutions 1,850  0
For a house 1,200  0
For final disposal 1,000  0
Service charges 725  0
Transport charges (per 01km) 100  0
17. Hirring out a part of the Pradeshiya Sabha premises
(Pelmadulla playground and Ketteththenna land)
Per day from 500 2,500  0
18. Licence fee for land sale and 100  0
11–1104/10
MAHO   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Imposing Tax for Services Supplied - Year 2013
IT is hereby notified that the following reoslution was adopted
under resolution No. 7.8.6 at general meeting held on 28th
September, 2012 by Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
H. M. R. R. K. M
EDAGEDARA,
Chairman,
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha.
Maho Pradeshiya Sabha,
28th October, 2012.
RESOLUTION
It is proposed that a fee should be paid to Pradshiya Sabha for
each purpose set out below at a rate motioned in front of them.
Rs. cts.
01. Registration of suppliers 250 0
02. Registration of contractors 500 0
03. Obtaining library membership :
Membership fee Renewal of
Membership
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
For adults 50 0 25 0
For children 20 0 10 0
04. Issuing of applications for water supply 50 0
05. Issuing of conformity certificates 500 0
06. Building application fees 100 0
07. Fees for l ibrary membership applications/applications 10 0
for transferring
Property/street line applications
08. Public performance licences - per day 500 0
09. to rent out the playground :
(i) For Digana playground
* For a musical sho per day 7,500 0
* For o ther shows and other purposes per day 2,500 0
(ii) For other playgrounds per day 1,000 0
10. Application fee for environmental licence fees 100 0
11. Applciation fee for renewal of environmetnal 50 0
licence fees
12. For stree lines 600 0
13 To issue certificate copies - per one copy 50 0
14. Permit fees for temporary trade stalls (monthly
or less)
Less than 15 sq. ft 250 0
over 15 sq. ft. 500 0
15. Water supply reconnection fees 200 0
16. Fees recovered when the water for up and down 1,000 0
up to 05km.
For every additional km. or half of it 30 0

<!-- page 102 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1422
17. To rent out vehicle :
with out fuel with fuel
Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
(i) To rent out the bacco (per 2,106.72 3,028.32
metr hour)
(ii) To rent out the motor grader 3,319.68 4,471.68
(per meter hour)
(iii) To rent out the quarrying roll 1,234.99 2,041.39
(per meter hour)
(iv) Registration fee for a tube well 300.00 2,041.39
18. Displaying of banners :
01. To display a notice through a Rs. 30 per 01 sq. ft.
banner or on a wall for a period
less than a month
02. To display a notice through a Rs. 40 per 01 sq. ft.
banners or on a wall for a period
not less than  03 months and
more than 06 months
03. To display a notice through a Rs. 50 per 01 sq. ft.
banner or on a wall for a period
not less than 06 months and
more than 06 months
11–1002/6
––––––––––––––
PRADESHIYA  SABHA  NARAMMALA
Imposing Assessment Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following
resolution moved at the General Council held on 28th August 2012,
in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala has been adopted by virtue of
powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala under Sub section
(1) of Section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 1987.
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala.
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala,
29th August, 2012.
RESOLUTION
I do hereby propose to accept the assessment made for the year
2012 by Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala and the assessment made
for the year 2012 by Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala in respect of all
houses. Buildings, Lands and tenements situated within the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala for the year 2013, in
terms of the powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha under Sub-
section (1) of section 146 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
And to levy an assessment tax of four percent (4%) out of the
above annual value for the year 2013 in terms of Sub section (1) of
Section 134 fo the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
11-956/1
NARAMMALA   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Acreage Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following
resolution moved at the general Council held on 28th August 2012
in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala has been adopted by virtue of
powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala under Sub Section
(3) of Section 134 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala.
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala,
29th August, 2012.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala
under Sub section (3) of Section 134 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 15 of 1987, I do hereby propose to impose and levy an Acreage
tax as per the rates referred  to in the following schedule for the year
2013 in respect of lands under permanent or regular cultivation and
areas from which assessment tax is not levied, within the area of
authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala.
S
CHEDULE
Rs.  cents
01.  In case the extent of land is less than 05 Hectares
but not less than one Hectare 50  0
02.  In case the extent of land is of 05 Hectares and
more than 05 Hectares 10  0
11-956/2
–––––––––––––––
NARAMMALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing business Tax for the Y ear 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following
resolution moved at the General Council held on 28th August 2012
in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala has been adopted by virtue of
powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala under Section
152 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala.
Narammala Pradeshiya Sabha,
29th August, 2012.

<!-- page 103 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1423
RESOLUTION
By virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala
under Sub Section (1) of 152 of Pradeshiya Sabha  Act, No. 15 of
1987, I do hereby propose to levy be imposed for the year 2013
from each person who maintains within the area of authority of
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala in 2013, any business/industry for
which a license should not be obtained under Section 150 of the said
Act, as per the rats specified in the corresponding part II, when the
income of the year 2012 obtained from the said business fall within
the limits of any object number indicated in the part I of the following
Schedule.
S
CHEDULE
PA RT 1
01. For a timber sales outlet
02. A place for packeting tea leaves and spices
03. Sale of fruits
04. Running vegetable sales outlets
05. Running a place for selling imperishable spices
06. For a furniture shop
07. Storing and Selling animal food more than 500 kilo grams
08. A store of hardware/building material
09. A place for selling foreign tiles, bricks, metals  and blocks
10. A place for selling lime
11. A stores of cement more than 500 kg
12. Running a photo studio
13. A place renting out public speaking systems
14. A place for selling western medicines (a pharmacy)
15. Storing Ayurvedic medicines for sale
16. A place for selling cool drinks
17. A place an agency for selling sweep tickets
18. An urban retail and wholesale shop
19. Store and sale of painting paints
20. Buying/selling copra
21. Running a place for conducting computer courses
22. Packeting/selling dried food
23. Running a Montessori by levying fees
24. A place for selling motor bicycles
25. Sale of shopping items
26. Running one or more than one photocopy machine
27. A place for selling Ceramic Products
28. A place for selling tires and tubes
29. A place for selling gold jewelleries
30. A place for selling and storing machines and refrigerators
31. Storing and selling of spare parts for bicycle
32. A place for recording songs
33. A place for recording and selling videos
34. A place for selling plastic items
35. Running a place for selling building materials
36. A place for selling aluminium ware
37. Running a book shop
38. A place for training driving
39. A shoe sales outlet
40. Sale of spare parts for motor cycles
41. Storing and selling of food stuff (retail)
42. A place for selling betel, plantain and king coconut
43. A place for selling  spectacles
44. Running a grocery for biscuits, tinned food and other food
45. Sale of spare parts for mobile phones
46. Sale of spare parts for motor vehicles
47. Sale of dried fish, salt and  jadi
48. Running an ayurvedic dispensary
49. Buying and selling of empty gunny bags, bottles and debris
of old metals
50. A place for ornamental fish and birds
51.  Itinerant sale of lotteries
1. Bicycles, Motor cycle, Three wheelers
2. Vans, lorries
52. Packeting and selling of salt
53. Buying and selling of local products
54. A place for buying coconut
55. Storing and selling of tobacco
56. Running an ayurveidc laboratory
57. Running a cigarette agency
58. Sale of ornamental plants
59. Storing and distribution of cool drinks, biscuits, milk powder
or consumer products
60. Sale of textiles and readymade garments
61. Sale of Sinhala medicine
62. Running a place for packeting and selling of any kind of food
stuff
63. Running a place for making dentures
64. Running a private business place
65. Running a telephone booth
66. Sale of rice
67. Sale of piece of cloth (cut piece)
68. Running a herbal porridge sales outlet
69. Running a place for processing polythene
70. Running a business place making advertisements
71. Running a beauty culture center
72. Running a place for training juki machines
73. Kilning bricks/tiles by  machineries
74. A mechanically operated carpenter shed
75. Industry of converting iron into Nickel
76. Repair of injector pumps
77. A business of insurance agent
78. Owners of private transport
79. Private tuition classes holders
80. Pawnbrokers
81. Contractors
82. Owners of foreign liquor bars
83. Running a business as commission agent
84. Notary public, surveyors and doctors
85. Private bus owners
86. Running a businesses as a private banker
87. Driving schools
88. Owners of vehicles those rented out
89. Lottery agents
90. Financial investors

<!-- page 104 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1424
91. Employment agents
92. Suppliers
93. Private property companies
94. Institutes those transporting goods
95. Garment factories
96. Vehicle show rooms for exchanging and selling
97. Running a metal crusher
98. A large scale timber mill
99. Industry of coir products
100. A large scale oil mill and coconut mill
101. A large scale furniture house
102. Business for catering places, food and beverages,
accommodation for wedding or ceremonies
103. Supply of ceremonial items
104. Chinese restaurants
105. Running a tele communication office
106. Storing and selling of liquor and beer
107. Kilning bricks by machines
108. Storing and selling diesel, petrol and kerosene oil
109. Supplying services of hired vehicles
110. Collecting and selling of old substances such as  (bottles, old
metals, plastic)
111. Business of supplying man power
112. Running a place for sand mining
113. Maintaining a farm of poultry and other animal for meat
114. Running a cinema hall
115. Running a medical specialist's service
116. Running a tourist hotel
117. Running a race bookie
118. Manufacture of cables for vehicles
119. Supply of tar products
120. Grinding plastic and manufacture of plastic products
121. Sale of cane products
122. Manufacture of carbon products
123. Sale of fire brigade equipments
PART 2
Income received Tax
From the business payable
During the previous year the tax is relevant Rs. cts.
01. Where annual income does not exceed Rs. 6,000 Non
02. Where annual income exceed Rs. 6,000
but does not exceed Rs. 12,000 90 0
03. Where annual income exceed Rs. 12,000
but does not exceed Rs. 18,750 180 0
04. Where annual income exceed Rs. 18,750
but does not exceed Rs. 75,000 360 0
05. Where annual income exceed Rs. 75,000
but does not exceed Rs. 1,50,000 1,200 0
06. Where annual income exceeds Rs. 1,50,000 3,000 0
11–956/4
NARAMMALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Levying Charges for the year 2013 in respect of
Advertisements/Visual Environment in terms of By-Laws
IT is hereby notified that the Pradeshiya Sabha has decided to levy
charges mentioned in the following Schedule from 2013 on an
adoption of resolution moved at the meeting held on 28th August,
2012 in respect of the display of Advertisements in the area of
authority of Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala so as to seen by any
street, road, canal or the sky in terms of the provisions set out in
the By-law No. 39, the By-law on Advertisements and Visual
Environment published in Part IV .
(b)  in the Gazette No. 1,712 on  24.06.2011 subsequent to the
acceptance of Standard By-law No. 06 of 1952 approved and
published by the Hon. Minister of Local Government, Housing
and construction in the Extraordinary Gazette  No. 570/7 on
23.08.1988 by virtue of powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha in
terms of Section 122(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
In addition to these fees, taxes imposed by the government from
time to time should be paid.
SCHEDULE
Description of advertisement Fee for license
Rs. cts.
01. For every square feet of a notice displayed 50 0
on a wall or hoarding
02. For every square feet of an advertisement, 20 0
banner, displayed with the help of a hoarding
or carried out by a person or taken in a vehicle
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha - Narammala.
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala,
29th August, 2012.
11–956/6
––––––––––––––––
NARAMMALA   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposing Tax on Animals and Vehicles - 2013
IT is hereby notified for the public information that the following
resolution moved at the General Council held on 28th August 2012
in the Pradeshiya Sabha, Narammala has been adopted by virtue of

<!-- page 105 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1425
powers vested in the Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala under Section
148 to be read with Section 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
Chairman,
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala.
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala,
29th August, 2012.
RESOLUTION
Pradeshiya Sabha Narammala proposes that every person who
keeps in his possession any vehicle or animal referred to in Column
I in the following Schedule should pay a tax for the year 2013 as
specified in the corresponding Column II in terms of powers vested
in the Pradeshiya Sabha under section 148 to be read with section
147 and the Provisions of the forth Schedule of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
S
CHEDULE
Column I Column II
Rs. cts.
(i) For every vehicle other than Motor car, motor 25  0
tricycle, Motor Lorry, Motor bicycle, cart,
Jin Rickshaw, Bicycles or Tricycle
(ii) For every bicycle or a tricycle, a bicycle
car or a cart –
(a) If used for business purpose 18  0
(b) If not used for business purpose 4  0
(iii) For every cart 20  0
(iv) For every hand cart 10  0
(v) For every Rickshaw 7  0
(vi) For every horse, pony or Mule 15  0
(vii) For every elephant or tusker 50  0
In addition to these fees taxes imposed from time to time by the
government should be paid.
11–956/8
ATTANAGALLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Imposition of Industrial Tax for the year  – 2013
IT is hereby notified that a resolution was moved and the same was passed unanimously at the General meeting of  the Attanagall a
Pradeshiya Sabha held on the 30th of October 2012 in terms of Sections 150 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to be read with
Section 02 of the Provincial Council (Supplementary) Act, No. 12 of 1989 by virtue of powers vested in Pradeshiya Sabha propose d to
levy and industrial tax for the year 2013 and that to be paid before the 31st March, 2013 as per the rates specified in the schedule hereof.
R. P. UPUL MAHENDRA RAJAP AKSE,
Chairman,
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha.
Attanagalla Pradeshiya Sabha,
Nittambuwa,
09th November, 2011.
SCHEDULE
I
NDUSTRIES UNDER SECTION 150 OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
1. Producing Vinegar 250 0 400 0 600 0
2. Running a leather conditioning centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
3. Running an arecanut dry conditioning centre 100 0 150 0 200 0
4. Running a blood or intestine boiling centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
5. Producing cosmetics 500 0 750 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 106 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1426
6. Running an Electrical equipments manufactory 200 0 300 0 400 0
7. For icing fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
8. For drying timber 100 0 150 0 250 0
9. Mechanical Rubber sheet producing and smoking 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
10. Rubber sheet production by hand and smoking 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11. Running a plastic wire and item manufactory 200 0 250 0 300 0
12. For tobacco dry conditioning 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
13. For producing cigars 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
14. For producing honey 100 0 200 0 250 0
15. For running a toddy collecting centre 100 0 200 0 200 0
16. For producing  beedi 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
17. For producing Copra 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
18. Papadam production 200 0 400 0 600 0
19. Running a rubber mixed mattress manufactory 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
20. Tooth paste production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
21. Desiccated coconut industry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
22. For running a kiln of Lime 200 0 300 0 400 0
23. Gum production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
24. For mechanized coconut oil extraction 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
25. For running a place of type setting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
26. For running a retail shop 250 0 500 0 1,000 0
27. For producing kapok 50 0 75 0 150 0
28. For running a timber store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
29. Jewellery workshop employed more than one person 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
30. For running a metal workshop employed by more than one person 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
31. For running a printing shop powered by electricity 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
32. For running a printing shop (hand powered) 150 0 300 0 400 0
33. For running a tea packing centre 300 0 500 0 750 0
34. For running a shop or place for spice sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
35. For running  a shop or place for animals such as poultry 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
36. For running  a shop or place for selling fruits 250 0 500 0 750 0
37. For running  a shop or place for selling vegetables 200 0 500 0 750 0
38. For running  a shop or place for selling live animals 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
39. For running a CD/VCD/disk sale centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
40. For running a place for duplo printing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
41. For manufacturing mixed or artificial manure 100 0 200 0 300 0
42. Glass manufacturing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
43. For machinery mechanized spare parts sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
44. For running a cement block work shop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
45. For running a private trade centre or fair 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
46. For running a metal query 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
47. For drying dry fish 100 0 150 0 200 0
48. Grinding chillies, flour any other grains 300 0 400 0 600 0
49. Running a timber sawing mill (hand machine) 200 0 300 0 400 0
50. Running a metal work shop (oxygen) 200 0 300 0 400 0
51. Running a footwear trade centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
52. For running a grinding mill (10 HP - 20 HP) 150 0 300 0 400 0
53. For running a grinding mill over 20 HP 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
54. Running a brick or tile kiln (mechanized) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
55. Running a brick or tile kiln (non mechanized) 150 0 250 0 400 0
56. For running a private veterinary clinic 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 107 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1427
57. For charging batteries 100 0 250 0 300 0
58. For burning collecting, drying and breaking lime 200 0 300 0 400 0
59. For running a tyre repairing centre (mechanized) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
60. For running a centre for tyre or tube vulcanizing 250 0 500 0 750 0
61. For running a dress producing institute powered by machines or electricity
(power loom, thread weaving) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
62. For fabric printing or painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
63. For sale of cycle Spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
64. For running a electric metal applying (mechanized) centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
65. For running a electric metal applying (non mechanized) centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
66. For running a timber sawing mill (coconut timber) 250 0 500 0 750 0
67. For running a timber sawing mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
68. For running a cycle winkle shop 100 0 150 0 200 0
69. For running a metal work shop 100 0 150 0 300 0
70. For running a carpentry work shop 100 0 150 0 300 0
71. For running a furniture manufactury 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
72. For running a  firewood shed 200 0 400 0 600 0
73. For running a oil extracting machine or a sekku 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
74. For running a firewood collecting centre 100 0 100 0 200 0
75. For running a mobile phone sale centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
76. For running a motor garage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
77. For a electrical or radio repairing centre or a radio manufactory 250 0 500 0 750 0
78. For running a garment factory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
79. For producing a sweetmeats 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
80. For manufacturing tea boxes 250 0 500 0 750 0
81. Storing varnish not more than 224 pounds 200 0 500 0 600 0
82. Sale of agro chemicals 250 0 500 0 750 0
83. For running a dental clinic 250 0 500 0 750 0
84. For running a centre for producing coconut shells 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
85. For running a trade centre for mobile phone spare parts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
86. For running a  manufactory of toys 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
87. For running a centre for manufacturing of thread cones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
88. For drying plumbago 50 0 75 0 100 0
89. For drying cinnamon, cardamom or coir by sulpher smoking 50 0 75 0 100 0
90. For running an arecanut sales centre 300 0 500 0 750 0
91. Drying or preparing fish fins 50 0 75 0 100 0
Detail of trade or business :
92. For extracting (mechanized) metal granite 200 0 300 0 400 0
93. Lime exploring 100 0 150 0 200 0
94. For coloring kapok threads 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
95. Rnning a licenser manufactory or a centre 250 0 500 0 750 0
96. For manufacture fats 200 0 300 0 400 0
97. For mechanical oil extraction 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
98. For mechanical grinding of bones 100 0 200 0 300 0
99. For running a oil mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
100. For running a place f bridal dressing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
101. For running a place of manufacturing paper 200 0 300 0 500 0
102. For running a dispensary (Western) 300 0 500 0 750 0
103. For running a funeral parlour 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 108 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1428
104. For running a place for welding or oxygen welding 300 0 350 0 500 0
105. For running a lathe machine workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
106. For running a motor vehicle service station or a motor garage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
107. For manufacturing coir or fibre or products by coconut coir fibre 250 0 500 0 750 0
108. For running a tank for bating timber 100 0 150 0 200 0
109. For running a slaughter 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
110. For running a dispensary (ayurvedic) 200 0 300 0 500 0
111. For manufacturing aluminium ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
112. For running a centre for electrical items and radio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
113. Brick or tile manufacturing without machineries 200 0 300 0 400 0
114. For running a metal crusher 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
115. For running a metal crusher (mechanized) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
116. Breaking or tearing rocks (mechanized) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
117. For running an exotic plant nursery 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
118. For running a piggery 500 0 500 0 750 0
119. Storing tea for exporting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
120. For cutting and polishing gems by traders 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
121. For producing sugar balls and liquid glucose 250 0 500 0 750 0
122. For mnaufacturing plastic ware, plastic name boards and plastic items 250 0 500 0 750 0
123. For manufacturing mattress (mechanized) 250 0 350 0 400 0
124. For manufacturing shoes or footwear manually 200 0 300 0 400 0
125. For manufactruing shoes or footwear (mechanized) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
126. For manufacturing boxes with hand machines 100 0 150 0 200 0
127. Juggery production 200 0 400 0 600 0
128. For running a whole sale cigarette trade centre 500 0 700 0 1,000 0
129. For running a poultry farm for chicken or eggs 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
130. For running a herd of goats 250 0 500 0 750 0
131. For running a ball table play centre 100 0 150 0 200 0
132. For running a blacksmith workshop 200 0 400 0 600 0
133. For running a canteen 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
134. For running a sherbet or cool drink spot 250 0 300 0 400 0
135. For manufacturing boxes fo matches 250 0 300 0 400 0
136. For manufacturing cigarettes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
137. For running a motorbike repairing centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
138. For running a petrol store or sales centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
139. For running a diesel store or sales centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
140. For storing kerosene - more than 50 gallons 200 0 300 0 400 0
141. For dry conditioning of meat 100 0 250 0 500 0
142. For producing ayurvedic medicines and oilments 200 0 300 0 400 0
143. For running a studio 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
144. For manufacturing firework items 250 0 500 0 750 0
145. For manufacturing soap 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
146. For running a pharmacy 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
147. For manufactring brushes 200 0 300 0 400 0
148. For running a hatchery 300 0 500 0 700 0
149. For manufacturing rubber gloves 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
150. For manufacturing elastic belts 500 0 750 0
1,000 0
151. For running a mosquito coil manufactory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
152. For running a bread and bakery product sales centre 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
153. Manufacturing watery tar 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
154. Mosquito coil production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 109 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1429
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
155. Camping shed production 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
156. For running a centre for cardboard box manufacturing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
157. For running a manufactory of disinfection 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
158. Generation of alternate power 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
159. Sale of fish products and canned fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
160. Manufacturing disinfections and cleaning matters 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
161. For a poultry inseminating farm 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
162. Storing tea (more than 112 pounds) 200 0 500 0 700 0
163. Storing frozen fish or meat for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
164. For running a hiring place of generators 200 0 300 0 400 0
165. For running a restaurant including alcohol trade
(only with permit issued by Excise Commissioner) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
166. For running an ice cream manufactory 250 0 350 0 500 0
167. For running a picture framing place 250 0 500 0 750 0
168. For storing toys for sale 250 0 500 0 750 0
169. For running a tuition institute (not pre-schools) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
170. For running a photocopy centre 250 0 500 0 750 0
171. Manufacturing, storing, sale of earthen ware 100 0 200 0 300 0
172. Storing and sale of spectacles 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
173. Storing and sale of ceramic ware 200 0 300 0 400 0
174. For running a coconut husk pit 100 0 200 0 300 0
175. Storing poonac 50 0 75 0 100 0
176. For running a an ice sales centre 250 0 500 0 750 0
177. Producing and storing concrete tile tubes or any other concrete ware 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
178. Storing salt - more than 1,120 pounds 250 0 500 0 750 0
179. Storing potatoes moer than 10 pounds 100 0 200 0 400 0
180. Producing and storing cane wares 100 0 150 0 200 0
181. Storing used tyre tubes more than 25 200 0 300 0 400 0
182. Storing bran new tyre tubes more than 25 200 0 300 0 400 0
183. Storing vinegar more than 5 gallons 50 0 100 0 100 0
184. Storing box of matches more than 15 grocer 100 0 150 0 200 0
185. Storing new iron (except metal) 50 0 100 0 150 0
186. Wholesale of vegetables fruits away from market 250 0 500 0 750 0
187. Sale of vegetables, fruits away from market 100 0 150 0 300 0
188. For running an ice cream sales centre 200 0 400 0 600 0
189. Storing and sale of deep frozen fish 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
190. For running a toddy tavern 250 0 300 0 500 0
191. Whole sale and storing soaps 100 0 150 0 200 0
192. For running a paddy drying yard (a grinding mill) 300 0 500 0 750 0
193. Storing lime more than 500 pounds 200 0 300 0 500 0
194. For running a water pump and any other machinery repair place 200 0 400 0 600 0
195. For running a card repairing workshop
(without a welding workshop) 100 0 200 0 300 0
196. For running a chicks sales centre (more than 100) 100 0 150 0 200 0
197. Stocking foreign liquor for sale (Only for government premits holders) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
198. For running a vehicle body making centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
199. For running a beedi store 200 0 300 0 400 0
200. For running a batik workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
201. For running a batik sales centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
202. For running a jewellery/gems or diamond sales or manufactory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
203. For running a tailor shop 250 0 500 0 1,000 0

<!-- page 110 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1430
204. Storing or sale of shoppiong items 100 0 200 0 300 0
205. Storign coconut (more than 1,000) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
206. For storing leather 200 0 500 0 750 0
207. For running a cement grill workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
208. For running a tooth fixing place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
209. For running a cushion workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
210. Storing or sale of gas 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
211. Storing sawing machines or fridges for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
212. For running a motor car sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
213. Storing bicycle spare parts 250 0 500 0 750 0
214. Storing explosives 200 0 300 0 350 0
215. For running an flower sales shop 400 0 500 0 600 0
216. For running a cinema hall 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
217. For running an hall renting place - except for religious purposes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
218. For running a rubber seal and plastic name boards place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
219. For running a record bar 200 0 300 0 400 0
220. For running an artifacts or handicrafts sale centre 200 0 300 0 400 0
221. For running a gram sales centre 100 0 200 0 300 0
222. Supply and sale of building materials 300 0 500 0 750 0
223. Whole sale of shopping ware 200 0 400 0 600 0
224. Sale and retail sale of old furniture and  items 200 0 400 0 600 0
225. Storing and retail sale of draperies for sale 300 0 500 0 1,000 0
226. For running a hardware store 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
227. Sale of aluminium or copper ware 200 0 300 0 400 0
228. Sale of religious statues 100 0 200 0 300 0
229. Sale and storing of sea shells 100 0 200 0 300 0
230. Carving wooden reel 250 0 500 0 750 0
231. For running a coir mill 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
232. Storing glass 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
233. For running a glass cutting manufactory 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
234. Mechanized lamp chimney beautifications 200 0 300 0 400 0
235. Storing coir products 200 0 300 0 400 0
236. Running a place for shining gold and silver 200 0 300 0 400 0
237. Lamp chimney beautifications 200 0 300 0 400 0
238. Running a place for paper cutting 200 0 300 0 400 0
239. Sale of cane ware 250 0 500 0 750 0
240. Running a place for watch repairing 200 0 300 0 400 0
241. Storing books and stationeries for sale 200 0 300 0 400 0
242. Storing drapery for sale and whole sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
243. Running a driver learner spot 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
244. Renting out festival items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
245. Running a place for sale of retail shoppoing items 250 0 500 0 1,000 0
246. Running a place for selling machineries 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
247. Storing fishery gear 650 0 800 0 1,000 0
248. Running a place for selling canned foods, milk foods, biscuits, 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
cheese, cake etc.
249. For storing bones 250 0 500 0 750 0
250. Running a place for training dress making 200 0 400 0 700 0
251. Running a foreign employment agency 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
252. Storing vehicles and spare aparts 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
253. Running a carpentry shop (mechanized) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 111 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1431
254. Repairing vehicle engines 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
255. Running a place for repairing televisions 400 0 600 0 750 0
256. Running a place for repairing fridges 250 0 500 0 750 0
257. Running a place for selling video cassettes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
258. Running a cool drink packing industry 200 0 400 0 600 0
259. Storing artificial fertilizer or raw material of fertilizer more than 3 gunnies 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
260. Storing local export items 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
261. Running a medical lab (live parts) 600 0 750 0 1,000 0
262. Storing kabok, gravel or metal mining 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
263. Storing copra for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
264. Running a place for renting out cycles or motor bikes 100 0 150 0 200 0
265. Running a place for selling motor bikes 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
266. Running a place for egg collection or sale 200 0 400 0 500 0
267. Running a place for repairing shoes 200 0 300 0 400 0
268. Running a place for dress weaving (private) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
269. Motor vehicle painting 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
270. Spectacle production and sale 200 0 300 0 500 0
271. Sale of motor bike spare parts 250 0 500 0 750 0
272. Running a place for dress dry cleaning 200 0 250 0 300 0
273. Running a private marketing place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
274. Sale of ornamental fish 200 0 250 0 300 0
275. Running a place for selling exotic plants 200 0 250 0 300 0
276. Running a place for food items sale 300 0 500 0 750 0
277. Production and sale of foot wear and leather products 300 0 350 0 400 0
278. Running a place for computer services 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
279. Running a garage 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
280. Running a place for retail selling cool drinks 200 0 200 0 300 0
281. Running a shop for bicycles, sewing machine, fans 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
282. Running a communication centre (telex, telephone services) 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
283. Running a store of food items for whole sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
284. Sale of block rocks for export and running a workshop 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
285. Running a bookie 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
286. Running a safe place for bicycles, motor bikes 100 0 200 0 500 0
287. Sale of miscellaneous items 100 0 200 0 300 0
288. Running a television ball table 100 0 150 0 200 0
289. Running a place for repairing guns 200 0 400 0 500 0
290. Storing local/foreign liquor for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
291. Storing hey for sale 25 0 50 0 75 0
292. Drying or storing plumbago 250 0 500 0 750 0
293. Coir production or storing them 300 0 300 0 750 0
294. Storing conditioned or dried fish 200 0 300 0 450 0
295. Running a furniture manufactory or storing them 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
296. Weaving plants 250 0 400 0 500 0
297. Threading plants 250 0 400 0 500 0
298. Finishing plants 425 0 425 0 425 0
299. Running a shop of finished dress 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
300. Storing (whole sale) perishable food items and spices for sale 200 0 300 0 450 0
301. Sale of storing pieces of cloths 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
302. Running a store of animal feed over 01 ton 200 0 250 0 300 0
303. Storing empty gunnies not more than 1,000 100 0 150 0 200 0
304. Canning fruits and vegetables 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.

<!-- page 112 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.11.2012
1432
305. Storing empty gunnies more than 1,000 200 0 300 0 400 0
306. Running a store or place of collecting charcoal 150 0 200 0 250 0
307. Running a drinking water bottling place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
308. Running a place of timber conditioning 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
309. Running a place for repairing injector pumps 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
310. Preparation and storing shark fins 50 0 75 0 100 0
311. Running a place of repairing mobile phones 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
312. Running a factory of fruit produces for export 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
313. Running an oil store of any sort 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
314. Running a telephone signal post 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
315. Running a vehicle emission testing place 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
316. Running a hardware store not more than 100 square feet 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
317. Running a store of honey for sale 200 0 300 0 500 0
318. Running a store of tiles, bricks or kabok 100 0 150 0 250 0
319. Storing lime or limestone 200 0 300 0 400 0
320. Storing cement - more than 1,000 pounds 250 0 500 0 750 0
321. Storing tobacco 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
322. Storing citronella or cinnamon oil 250 0 300 0 1,000 0
323. Storing arecanuts 50 0 75 0 100 0
324. For storing new or old metal items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
325. Production or sale of mentholated spirits 150 0 250 0 400 0
326. Storing unearthed items, metal items 50 0 75 0 100 0
327. For storing more than 15 bags of grains 250 0 300 0 400 0
328. Storing brand new or used motor spare parts for sale  500 0 750 0 1,000 0
329. manufacturing and storing coffins 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
330. Storing electrical items for sale 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
331. Storing loudspeaker for renting 200 0 300 0 400 0
332. For storing ayurvedic drugs for sale 150 0 250 0 500 0
333. Storing cool drinks for whole sale 250 0 350 0 500 0
334. Running a store of electrical items 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
335. Running a store of paddy, rice 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
336. Packing paints 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
337. Sale of leather products 200 0 300 0 500 0
338. Running a plant nursery 250 0 500 0 750 0
339. Running a digital printing 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
340. Running a computer training centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
341. Running a body building centre 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
342. Sale and repairing or musical equipments 500 0 750 0 1,000 0
11-1000/2
Serial T ype of Industry Annual Value of Premises
No.
Annual value Annual value Annual value
not more from Rs. 751 over
than Rs.750 to Rs.1,500 Rs.1,500
Rs. cts. Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.