

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
41
41
wxl 1"689 - 2011 ckjdß ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'01'14
No. 1,689 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 14, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 43
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after  three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st January, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
January, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,688 of 07.01.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
42
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
43
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILL
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT OF
POSTS IN CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF THE SRI
LANKA TECNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE – 2011
APPLICATIONS are invited for the under mentioned posts
Scheduled under Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service in the Department of Technical Education and
Training.
Particulars of Posts :
Post Post
Nos.
01 Instructor in Electronics
02 Instructor in Building Trade
03 Instructor in Motor Mechanism
04 Instructor in Wood work
05 Instructor in Refrigeration and Air conditioning
06 Instructor in Technical Drawing
07 Instructor in Electrical Trade
08 Instructor in English
09 Instructor in Computer Technology
10 Instructor in Science and Maths
11 Instructor in Commerce
12 Instructor in Metal Work
Application should be prepared according to specimen with
No. 01 to 06 appearing in 1st page, No. 07 to 12 in 2nd page and
remains in 3rd page and include relevant particulars clearly in
candidates own hand writing and in the language medium of the
examination. The application, which non compliance with the
specimen application and iclude incomplete particulars will be
rejected without inform. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of an
application. Applicants should check whether the perfected
application is in conformity with the specimen application setout
in the examination notification otherwise the application is liable to
be rejected.
When preparing an application the name of the examination,
mentioned in the heading, should be written in English in addition
to Sinhala in the Sinhala Applications and in English in addition to
Tamil in the Tamil Applications.
Applications on form, a specimen of which is given below should
be sent under registered cover to reach the "Dierctor General,
Department of Technical Education and Training, P. O. Box 557,
Colombo 10" on or before 2010. the envelope enclsoing the
application should be marked "Posts in Class III (Special Cadre) of
the Sri Lanka Technical Education Service" on the top left hand
corner. Candidates applying for more than one post should send
the application indicating posts numbers and posts according to
your preference for each post applied for. Only those who are
posses basic qualifications according to Gazette notification will be
called to written examination.
02. Terms of Employment .–
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to contribute to the "widows
and Orphans/Widower and Orphans" Pension Scheme
and will be placed on three years probation.
The Efficiency Bar .–
(b) According tot he Public Administration Circular
No. 20/2001, every officer appointed to a post should
complete 1st Efficiency Bar before 4th step and 2nd
efficiency bar before 7th step of the Salary Scale. Failure
to complete the Efficiency Bar within the stipulated
period will result in the deferment of the increment and
the period taken in excess of the time allowed will be
treated as a period of deferment of increment. These
officers will also become ineligible to apply for any
higher post within Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service until they complete the Efficiency Bar.
(c) Officers appointed to these posts are expected to obtain
the competency in second language within 05 years
from the date of appointment in accordance to the
Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007. Failure to
complete the competency in the Second language within
the stipulated period will result in the deferment of the
increment. The language proficiency of these officers
in pass the Sinhala/Tamil in G. C. E. (O/L) as a main
subject (should not be a 2nd language or optional
subject) and pass the oral test held by the Department
of official languages or pass the special skills
examination held by the Department of official
languages.
03. Salary and allowances.—  The monthly consolidated Salary
scale relevant to this post is Rs. 22,935 – 645 x 10 – 790 x 8 –
1,050x 17 – Rs. 53,555. Payments will be made in terms of SL-1-
2006 of P. A. Circular 6/2006. Payment of increment will be subjected
to the completion of the Efficiency Bar specified in Para 2(b) above.
04. Qualifications .— Every applicant should complete the
following qualifications by the closing date of applications :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Is of excellent moral character and physically fit ;
(c) Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45
years of age on the closing date of applications ;
(d) Should have the professional/Educational qualifications
and relevant experience mentioned below for each post.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
44
Note.— Applications shuld be sent according to the Gazette
notification dated 06.03.2009, upper age limit is not
entitled to them. (legal proceedings of Case No. SC235/
2009/FR of Supreme Court)
05. Educational and Professional Qualifications .—
5.1 Instructor in Electronics :
(i) National Diploma in technology (Electronics and
Telecommunication) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Electrical
Engineering – Electronics) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Electrical and
Electronics Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds
of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06)
including Sinhala/Tamil langauge and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level
qualifications in the relevant field. (Qualifications
accepted by the Minsitry of Public Administration
and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in
relevant field with one of the above qualifications.
5.2 Instructor in Building Trade :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Civil
Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Civil
Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Civil
Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds
of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six subjects (06)
including Sinhala/tamil lanauge and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level
qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications
accepted by the Ministery of Public Administration
and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in
relevant field with one of the above qualifications.
5.3 Instructor in Motor Mechanism  :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical
Engineering ( Motor Mechanism) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical
Engineering – Motor Mechanism) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds
of London Institute (in the relevatn field) ; and
The G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects (06)
including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher recognized Technician level
qualifications in the relevatn field (Qualifications
accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration
and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in
relevant field with one of the above qualifications.
5.4 Instructor in Wood work :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (mechanical
Engineering/Civil Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical/
Civil Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Civil Engineering/
Mechanical Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds
of Londong Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects (06)
including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level
qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications,
accepted by the Ministry of Pubilc Administration
and Unviersity Grant Commission ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in
relevant field with one of the above qualifications.
5.5 Instructor in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning  :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical/
Production Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical
Engineering – Refrigeration and Air Conditionig) ; or

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
45
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds
of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level
qualifications in relevant field (Qualifications accepted
byt he Ministry of Public Administration and
University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in
relevant field with one of the above qualifications.
5.6 Instructor in Technical Drawing :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds
of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level
qualifications in relevatn field (Qualifications,
accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration
and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in
relevant field with one of the above qualifications.
5.7 Instructor in Electrical Trade :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Electrical
Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Electrical
Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Electrical and
Electronics Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds
of London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level
qualifications in the relevant field (Qualifications,
accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration
and University Grant Commission ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in
relevant field with one of the above qualifications.
5.8 Instructor in English :
(i) A Degree from a recognized Universtiy with English
as a subject ; or
(ii) Degree in English medium ; and
(iii) 03 years experience in Teaching English after obtaining
above qualifications.
5.9 Instructor in Computer Technology :
(i) B. Sc. Degree in Computer Science/Computer
Engineering obtained from recognized university ; or
(ii) B. Sc. Degree with computer subject as a major subject
obtained from recognized university ; or
(iii) B. Sc. (Engineering) Degree with computer science
obtained from recognized university ; or
(iv) B. Sc. Degree obtained from a recognized university ;
with
Post Graduate Diploma in Information Technology
obtained from a recognized university ; and
Three years teaching and/or practical experience, in
the field of computer Technology ; after obtaining
above qualifications ; or
(v) Two years full time Advanced Diploma in Computer
Technology awarded by the National Institute of
Business Management ; or
(vi) Equivalent or Higher qualifications (Qualifications
accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration
and University Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching experience in Computer
Technology field with the above qualifications.
5.10 Instructor in Science and Maths :
(i) B. Sc. Degree from a recognized university including
Physics and Mathematics (Applied Maths or Pure
Maths), as subjects ; and
(ii) 03 years teaching experience after obtaining the Degree.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
46
5.11 Insructor in Commerce :
(i) A Degree from a recognized university in Business
Administration or Public Administration or Commerce
or Economics ; or
(ii) Diploma in Commerce obtained from Technical college
under Department of Technical Education and
Training/Sri Lanka Institute of Advance Technology ;
or
(iii) Equivalent or Higher qualifications (qualifications
accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration
and University Grant Commission) ; and
Three years experience in teaching/relevant field after
obtaining qualifications.
5.12 Instructor in Metal Work :
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(iii) National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical
Engineering) ; or
(iv) Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of
London Institute (in the relevant field) ; and
The G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects (06)
including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics/
Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ; or
(v) Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level
qualifications in relevant field (Qualifications accepted
by the Ministry of Public Administration and University
Grant Commission) ; and
Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant
field with one of the above qualifications.
Note.– However, in the field of shorthand and typewriting
(Sinhala/Tamil/English), Secretariat practice, Electrical
Trade, Building Trade, Automotive Trade, Wood work,
Technical drawing, Metal work, Electronics, Gem
cutting and Polishing, Air conditioning and
Refirgeration and other Engineering disciplines,
candidate not possessing qualifications under II above
may be considered, provided they have by the date of
closing of applicatins, teaching or industrial experience
of not less than 5 years and posses a recognized
Professional or Technician Level qualifications in the
relevant subject area. In addition to the above, they
should have passed at least the SSC or the GCE
(Ordinary Level) examination in 6 subjects including
Mathematics/Arithmetic/Commercial Arithmetic and
Sinhala/Tamil language at not more than two sitting.
06. Copies of following documents certified by you should be
attached with the application .—
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Baptismal Certificate
or the Certificate of Birth issued for the purpose of the
Code of Regulations for Assisted Schools will not be
accepted) ;
(ii) Degree certificates or other educational certificates ;
(iii) Certificate of Professional and/or technical qualifications ;
(iv) Certificate of the highest examination passed in Sinhala,
Tamil and English.
07. Applications of officers in the State Service must be
forwarded through the Heads of their respective Departments.
08. Reference is requested to General Conditions applicable to
appointments in the State Services, published at the beginning of
Part I section (IIA) of this Gazette and also to the minute of Sri
Lanka Technical Education Service, published in the General Part I
of Gazette No. 415 dated 15.08.1986.
09. All the applicants must appear for written test conducted
by Commissioner General of Examination comprising following
components :
(i) General Knowledge - 100 marks - duration 1 hour
(ii) General Intelligence - 100 marks - duration 1 hour
Note.— This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil
and English mediums. Permission will not be granted
later to change the language medium applied.
Candidates selected according to the merit order of the
competitive examination, should face an interview to examine the
basic qualifications, mentioned in the recruitment Notification
(Marks will not be given for the interview). Recruitments will be
made to down, according to the competency of aggregate marks of
candidates, who have obtained 40% or above marks.
10. Syllabus .—
10.1 General Knowledge - 1 hour
This question paper has been set to assess the candidate's
knowledge of Economic, Social, Political, Geographical
and Geo Scientific matters at National and International
level. In this question paper, some questions are given
expecting the correct short answers from candidates
themselves and another set of questions is given as
multiple choice questions to find out the ability of the
candidate to select the correct answer.
10.2 General Intelligence - 1hour
This question paper, limited to one hour, is set to assess
the candidate's ability for logical thinking and decision
making. This question paper has been contained in
multiple choice and shourt answer questions.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
47
11. Date of Examination. — This examination will be held in
Colombo city (City No. 01) and Jaffna city (City No. 02) in the
end of March, 2011. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone
or cancel this examination subject to instructions given by the
Cabinet of Ministers. Accordingly, the town in which the candidate
intends to sit the examination and the town number should be
indicated in the application form accurately. It will not be permitted
to change the town indicated.
12. Examination Fee.— The fee of the examination is Rs. 500. It
should be paid before the closing date of applications at any People's
Bank branch to be credited to Director General,  Department of
Technical Education and Training to the Account No. : 176-1001-
39026228. The receipt obtained from the People's Bank should be
pasted to the relevant cage in the application form. This fee will not
be refunded. It will be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate.
Note.– Candidates, who applied for this previously according
to the Gazette notification dated 06.03.2009 should also
apply again. The fee of the examination relevant to them is
Rs. 200 and it should be paid at any People's Bank branch to
be credited to Director General Department of Technical
Education and Training to the Account No. 176-1001-
39026228. The Receipt obtained should be pasted to the
relevant cage in the Application form. This fee will not be
refunded.
13. Candidates, of highest marks according to the merit order of
the open competitive examination will be recruited for the existing
vacancies.
14. Secretary to the Ministry of Youth Affairs and skill
development reserves the right, not to fill all or apart of the vacancies.
15. Clauses of section 10-12 of Chapter II of Establishment
Code and procedural rules of Public Service Commission mentioned
in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009, will
be relevant as suitable for the post.
16. Admission card with attested signature, should produce to
the officer in charge of examination centre of the date of commence
the examination.
17. Only the National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of person or a valid passport will be accepted prove
the identify of candidate to the officer in charge of examination
centre, in the examination conducted by the Department of
examination.
18. Issue of admission card to the candidate will not be accepted
as fulfill the qualification to appear the examination.
19. The candidate will be subjected to the rules and regulations,
regarding to conduct the examination, enacted by the Commissioner
of examination. Violating such rules and regulations, he/she will be
liable to a punishment to be imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examination.
20. Immediately after issue of admission cards to the candidates
a news paper notification will be published by the Department of
Examination. If the admission card is not received by the applicant,
even the lapse of 02 or 03 days after the publication of such notice,
candidates should notify the Department of Examination as setout
in the notification. It will be more useful to notify the Department
along with a certified photocopy of the application and paying
receipt retained by the candidates registration receipt of post and
fax number, when it is out side the Colombo to send the admission
card, along with the letter of request.
S. S. H
EWAPA THIRANA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skill Development.
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skill Development,
"Nipunatha Piyasa",
No. 354/2, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
24th December, 2010.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFFAIRS AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT
Competitive Examination for recruitment of Posts in
Class III (Special Cadre) of the Sri Lanka Technical Education
Service – 2011
Post Post No.
I Concent
II Concent
III concent
* Please see paragraph 01 of Gazette Notification permission will
not be granted later to change the order.
Language medium of examination City of the examination :
Sinhala - 2 Colombo - 01
Tamil - 3 Jaffna - 02
English - 4 (Indicate the relevant
(Indicate the relevant number number in the cage)
in the cage)
01. Name with initials :
Initials at the end
(In capital letters) E. g.– SILV A A.B.
02. Name in full (in capital letters) :––––––––––.
03. Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
(a) Official address :––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
48
(b) Private address (In capital letters) :––––––––––.
(Admission will be sent to this address)
(c) Personal Telephone No. :––––––––––.
04. ( a) Whether a Sri Lankan Yes  -1
No  - 2
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
05. ( a) Date of Birth :
Year :    Month : Date :
(b) National Identity Card No. :
06. Age as at closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Particulars of present post :
(a) Post and the date of appointment :––––––––––.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :––––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :––––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :––––––––––.
(e) Department :––––––––––.
(f) Institute/Place of work :––––––––––.
(g) Annual consolidated salary scale :––––––––––.
(h) Presant annual consolidated salary :––––––––––.
08. Particulars of educational qualifications (Including certificates
of proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language) :
Examination University/Institute Year Subject field
1.
2.
3.
4.
09. Particulars of Professional Qualifications :
Certificate Insitution, issued the certificate Year Subjects
1.
2.
3.
4.
(Certified copies of relevant certificate should be attached)
10. Institutions attended for General Education :-
Institution Grade From To
1.
2.
3.
4
11. Previous appointments (to be stated in chronological order
with exact dates) :
Department/ Post Whether post is From To
Institute/ permanent or temporary
Servic station
1.
2.
3.
4.
12. Whether you have been convicted in a Court of Law ? If so
state details :––––––––––.
13. If served in a Government Department or Board/Corporation
in Public Sector, state reasons for termination of service :–––.
14. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you ? If so
state details in brief :––––––––––.
Receipt should be affixed here
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained there in are found to be false and incorrect,
before selections, I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal
without compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
appointment. Further, I also declare that I subject to the rules and
regulations to be imposed by the Commissioner General of
examination, relating to conducting of this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
For candidates, holding a post in Public and Provincial Public
Service :
Recommendation of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that the particulars contained in No. 01 to 14 of
above officer, are true and correct.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the
Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––.
01–254

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
49
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY  UNIVERSITY  OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course, 2011/2012
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year fulltime Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to a new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
General.– The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial Training
and is conducted in English medium. The course is offered in the
following fields of study :
(a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I)  :
(i) Marine Engineering Technology
(ii) Nautical Studies and Technology
(b) Other Fields of Courses (Set 2) :
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology
(iv) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Technology
(v) Mechanical Engineering Technology
(vi) Polymer Technology
(vii) T extile and Clothing Technology.
Eligibility :
2.1 Age :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2010.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2010 will
be given preference for admission to the Marine
Engineering Technology and Nautical Studies and
Technology Courses. A special medical test and
interview would also be conducted for selection of
students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies
Courses.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open University
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational Institute under the
Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the
following subjects :
(i) Physics
(ii) Chemistry
(iii) Combined Mathematics
(iv) Advanced Mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G . C. E. (A/L) Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2008
or 2009 or 2010.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course :
The selection of students for admission will be based on
the performance at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G .C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., in the
order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and 60%
district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant's order
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the
field preference will be considered in the allocation of the
field of study.
Application Procedure :
4.1 Application Form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address :
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post  marked "NDT Admission
2011/2012"  on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and addressed to the "Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa."
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.
(iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with the
application form.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
50
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should be
sent along with the application form. However,
the content of the application has to be certified as
indicated. (See cages 3, 4 and 5 in the form of
application.)
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are two SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets of
fields. The preference must be indicated if candidate
applies to both sets of fields.
(iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This should
be completed only by the candidates who are
applying for Maritime Studies.
(iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7.
"1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and
so on "7" for the last preferred.
5. (i) Application Fee.–  Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2
is Rs. 300 and SET 1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt of
payment in favour of "Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon,
Katubedda Branch" to the value of Rs. 300 (Rupees
Three Hundred) for one set of fields of study (Rs. 500 if
applying for both sets of fields), obtained only from any
branch of the Bank of Ceylon should accompany each
application. This application fee is non-refundable.
(ii) Closing Date.–  The closing date of applications is
15.02.2011.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G. C. E. (A.L) performance in Merit and District Quota will be
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
(i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to
produce the originals of the following certificates on the
date of registration :–
* G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
* Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
* School Leaving Certificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* Affidavit in support of any changes in name
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of the
course.
(ii) A student who has already registered in this university or
any other university in Sri Lanka (except Open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
is not be eligible for applying.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
31st December, 2010.
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO THE NATIONAL
DIPLOMA IN TECHNOLOGY COURSE
I
NSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF MORATUWA  – ACADEMIC
YEAR 2011/2012
For office use only
Application No.
District
Application for (Please   9  )
(i) Maritime Fields - SET 1
(ii) Other Fields - SET 2
[Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or
both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
01. Personal Details : (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
Name in Full :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Name with Initials :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Title Mr./Ms. S e x Male/Female
Age (Years)       (Months) Date of Birth
As at 31st Date Month Year
Dec. 2010
National ID
Number

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
51
02. Contact Details :
Address (Residence):
(Leave one blank cage between different segments of the
address)
Telephone
Mobile
E-mail (if available)
03. Results of G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score . .               .
Medium Sinhala/Tamil/English
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether) 2008 or 2009 or 2010
04. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13
Y ear Name & District Period of
Address of Attendance
 School From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13 1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
05. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
It is compulsory to certify the Results under No. 03 and
Details under No. 04 in the application by the School
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice
of Peace for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the cage No.3 and cage No. 4 are true and accurate according
to the Original Certificates.
Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace :
Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................  
 Official Seal
....................... .....................
Signature Date
06. Field Preference :
Set 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference
and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime
Studies.
Set 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for
the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘7’ for
the last preferred.
Set 1 Set 2
Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
State Priority, if applied for Electronic and Telecomm-
both sets – 9 unication Engineering
Technology
SET 1 Mech anical Engineering
Technology
SET 2 Polymer Technology
Textile & Clothing
Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other University under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education ?
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
APPLICANT'S  DECLARATION :
(1) I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any
University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of
Education.
(2) I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the
Yes N o

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.01.2011
52
particulars given by me in this Application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be
discontinued from the course.
(3) In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
(4) I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt
obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of
“Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa -
Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedda,
Branch”.
(5) I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".
(6) I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University or any other Higher Educational InstitutionPRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
under the Ministry of Education at the time of sitting for
the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
01-274