

<!-- page 1 -->

PART 1: SECTION (1) - GENERAL
L.D. B. 15/2014
CONSTRUCTION  INDUSTRY  DEVELOPMENT  ACT,  NO.  33  OF  2014
REGULATIONS  made by the Minister of Housing and Construction under section 39 of the Construction Industry
Development Act, No. 33 of 2014 read with section 58 of the aforesaid Act.
SAJITH  PREMADASA,
Minister of Housing and Construction.
Colombo,
22nd August, 2018.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Construction Industry Development (Temporary Registration o f Foreign
Contractors) Regulations of 2018.
2.  Every Foreign contractor who wishes to obtain a temporary registration to engage in any Identified Construction Work
in Sri Lanka shall make an application for each such project, along with any particulars as may be required by the Construction
Industry Development Authority (hereinafter in these regulations referred to as the "Authority") to register such foreign
contractor with the Authority.
3.  The procedure for such registration shall be as specified in the First Schedule hereto.
wxl 2085$19 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 23 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'08'23
No. 2085/19 – THURSDAY, AUGUST 23, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
Government Notifications
1A - PG 004179 - 507 (08/2018)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2018'08'232  A
PART 1: SEC. (1) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  -  23.08.2018
4.  Any Foreign Contractor shall, upon payment of the applicable registration fee as specified in th e Second Schedule
hereto, be assigned with a registration number and issued with a Certificate of Temporary Registraton for each project which
shall be valid for a period as specified in such Certificate.
5.  Every Foreign Contractor registered with the Authority shall at least Fourteen days prior to the date of expiry of such
registration make an application to the Authority along with the renewal fee as specified in the Second Schedule hereto for the
renewal of such Certificate.
6.  In these regulations –
"Identified Construction Work" shall have the same meaning as in the Construction Industry Development Act, No.
33 of  2014;
FIRST SCHEDULE
Procedure  for  Registration  and  renewal  of   Foreign   Contractors
1.  Application forms (for registration/renewal of registration) may be obtained at the Authority. T he duly completed
application forms should be sent to the Director-General of the Authority along with the following:-
(a) A letter from the client intending to award the contract;
(b) Certified Company Profile and the Financial Statement of the Company;
(c) Details of professionals and other staff;
(d) Detail of past performance;
(e) Details of imported plant and machinery; and
(f) any other information as may be required by the Authority.
2.  If the applicant fulfills all the requirements as may be necessary to obtain a registration, the applicant shall be informed
of that within one week from the date of application.
3.  The Certificate of registration shall be issued to the applicant upon payment of the relevant registration fee/renewal fee
as specified in the Second Schedule.
4.  The registration shall be renewed due to following reasons and such reasons shall be informed to the Authority prior
to Fourteen days from the date of expiry of the Certificate:-
(a) Change in scope of the project and subsequent increase of contract value;
(b) necessity to extend the time of the project in order to complete such project.
SECOND S CHEDULE
Fees for Registration Fees for renewal of  Registration
0.01% of the contract value of the relevant project. In case of change in scope and subsequent increase of contract
value-0.01% of the additional value incurring due to variation of
the contract value of the relevant project. (Renewal fee shall not be
applicable where there is no variation of the contract value).
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA.
09-130