

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013' 09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2013
1A
CUSTOMS   NOTIFICATIONS
By virtue of the powers vested in me under by 103 of the Customs Oridnance (Chapter 235), I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of
Finance and Planning make these Regulations.
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
President,
(Minister of Finance and Planning).
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
20th September 2013.
Section 103
Regulations made under Section 103 of the Customs Ordinance and published under The Gazette Extraoridnary No.
1520/17 of October 26, 2007 is hereby amended as follows :
1. By the repeal of Regulation 1 and the substitution therefore of the following regulation :
1. "These regulations may be cited as the Customs (Overtime, Cargo Examination Fees & Customs Information
and Communication Technology Fund ) Regulations 2007".
2. By the repeal of Regulation 2 and the substitution therefore of the following regulation :
2. "All sums recovered as fees or charges for services rendered by officers of Customs outsides the hours of
general attendance appointed for such officers or on days when the Customs House is closed for business,
all sums recovered as fees or charges for the attendance of any officer of Customs at any office or place other
than his proper office or place of employment, and all sums recovered as fees for specialized services ren-
dered, as set out in Schedule "A" or in Schedule "B" or in Schedule "C" or in Schedule "D" or in Schedule "E"
or in Schedule "F" or in Schedule "G" or in Schedule "H" or in Schedule "I" of the regulations published under
Section 103 of the Customs Ordinance shall be credited to a Fund, called the Customs Overtime, Cargo
Examination Fees and Customs Information and Communication Technology Fund, under three separate
accounts, called the Customs Overtime Account, Customs Cargo Examination Fees Account and Customs
Information and Communication Technology Fund Account respectively".
w;s úfYI
wxl 1829$39 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'09'27
No. 1829/39 - FRIDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 27,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2013
2A
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other clause to the contrary in this notification, for the convenience
of the applicant and for ease of calculation of overtime, payable the Director General of Customs may, for the
services mentioned in paragraph 1 in Schedule "A", accept from the applicants, payment based only on the
number of containers, quantity of bulk cargo (dry/liquid), number of vehicles, number of vessels as specified
therein, irrespective of the time at which such activity was carried out and this amount shall be taken as the
amount due as if the operation concerned was done after office hours or on days the Customs House was
closed for business".
3. By addition, immediately after Regulation 5, of the following regulation :
5 a. "The moneys of the Customs Information and Communication Technology Accounts may be disposed in the
following manner".
The Director General may remunerate the officers of  ICT directorate of the Customs, for rendering specialized
services in the management of Information and Communication Technology facility to the Board of Invest-
ment of Sri Lanka or any other Government or Non Governmental Institutions in accordance with a scheme as
approved by the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance.
4. By the repeal of paragraph 2 of the schedule "H" morefully described as export cargo examination fees in the
Gazette notification No. 1520/17 dated 26.10.2007 made under Section 103 2(A) of the Customs Ordinance is substituted as
follows.
2. (i) For the examination and passing for shipment of export cargo other than pssenger baggage :
(a) In full Container Loads (FCL), irrespective of the container = Rs. 550 per each container
(ii) For the examination and passing for shipment of export cargo other than  passenger baggage in Less
Container Load (LCL) and non containerized bulk cargo :
(a) Where the value of consignment is less than Rs. 10,000/= and in = exempted
Less Container Load (LCL) or in any type of bulk cargo
(b) Where the value of LCL consignment exceeds Rs. 10,000/= = Rs. 300 per CusDec
(c) Where the value of any type of non containerized bulk cargo = Rs. 20 per metric ton
consignment exceeds Rs. 10,000/=
(iii) For the examination and  passing for shipment of Air cargo other than passenger baggage :
(a) Where the value of consignment is less than Rs. 10,000/= = exempted
(b) Where the value of consignment exceeds Rs. 10,000/= = Rs. 300 per CusDec
5. By the addition at the end of Schedule "H" of such regulations, of the following new schedule :
SCHEDULE "I"
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY FEE
For providing the 'ASYCUDA World' technical support in the management of Information & Communication Tech-
nology facility to the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, or any other Government or Non Governmental Institutions a monthly
Fee of Rupees 8,000 per user, to be charged from the User of Such Services. This sum falling due for a particular calendar month,
calculated as aforesaid, shall be paid to the Customs Overtime, Cargo Examination Fees and Customs Information and
Communication Technology Fund before the 15th day of the following month.
10 - 521
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.