

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 18
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 04
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"206 – 2020 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'12'11
No. 2,206  –  fRiday ,  dEcEmbER  11, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st January, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th december, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1 - b 82085- 5,403 (12/2020)


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
4
Posts – vacant
STATE mINISTRy Of PRISON mANAGEmENT 
AND PRISONERS' REhAbILITATION 
Field / Office based officers in the Department of 
Community based Corrections - Segment 2
REcRuitmENt (oPEN) to thE PoSt of 
commuNity coRREctioN officERS -2020
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitable Sri Lankan 
citizens to fill 09 (Nine) vacancies (for the offices of North 
Western, North central, Northern and Eastern Provinces) 
existing in the post of Community Correction Officer Grade 
ii in the department of community based corrections.
applications prepared according to the specimen form of 
application appended at the end of this notification should be 
sent to reach the commissioner, department of community 
based corrections, No 35/a, dr.N.m.Perera mawatha, 
borella, colombo 08 by Registered Post and email to 
the email address dcbcorrection@gmail.com  or submit 
application by hand on or before the date mentioned below. 
the top left corner of the envelope containing the application 
and the subject of the email should clearly bear the words 
"Recruitment to the Post of Community Correction Officer 
-2020 (open)".
(a) closing date of application is 2021.01.15.
Note:- complaints made on the loss or delay of 
applications and other connected letters in the 
post will not be considered. the damages caused 
due to delay in the submission of applications 
until the closing date shall be borne by the 
applicant.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment to the vacancy 
shall be based on the marks of a structured interview conducted 
by an interview panel appointed by the commissioner of the 
department of community based corrections.
02. Conditions for engagement in service :
 (i)  this post is permanent and pensionable. you 
will be subject to any policy decision taken by 
the government regarding the pensions scheme 
in future. you should contribute to the Widows'/ 
Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme.
 (ii) this appointment is subject to 3 years probation 
period and first efficiency bar examination shall 
be passed within 03 years from the date of 
recruitment.
 (iii)  Shall acquire the relevant proficiency in other 
official language in addition to the language in 
which the officer joined the service, within Five 
(05) years from the date of recruitment to the 
post as per the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014. Officers who joined the service in a 
language medium which is not an official language 
shall acquire the proficiency in the prescribed 
language within three (03) years from the date of 
recruitment and shall acquire the proficiency in 
the other official language within five (05) years 
from the date of recruitment.
 (iv)  this appointment shall be subject to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations of 
the government and other departmental orders.
03. Salary scale.– in terms of the public administration 
circular No 3/2016, mN5-2016 be the initial salary 
scale. Rs. 34,605-10 x 660-11 x 755-15 x 930- Rs.63,460/-
04. Educational Qualifications and Professional 
Qualifications :
Shall have obtamed a special degree in criminology / 
special degree in Sociology / degree in law (LLb) 
from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission
oR
an attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court.
and
Be an officer in the public service
05. experience.– Prior Experience obtained related 
to the relevant field will be considered as an additional  
qualification.
06. Age Limit.– Shall be not less than 21 years of age 
and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of 
application.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
5
07. Qualifications.– Every candidate shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and to perform 
the duties of the post.
 
Other Qualifications :
• Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
• Shall be of an excellent character
• Shall have satisfied the qualifications mentioned in the Notice of calling applications/ Gazette in all aspects for the 
recruitment to the post.
08. Structured interview.– marks will be given by an interview panel appointed by the commissioner of the department 
of community based corrections.
09. Marking scheme of the Structured interview :
Subject Marks Maximum Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications 
i.  Post Graduate degree in Sociology / criminology / Law
ii. other Post Graduate degrees
iii. Post Graduate diploma courses
iV . diploma courses (duration of which more than 01 year)
V . Diploma courses (duration of which more than 09 months)
25
20
15
10
05
25
02 Additional Professional Qualifications
i. diploma obtained from government recognized institution related to drug 
Prevention / Social Work / counseling or criminology (03 marks per 
each)
II. Certificate courses on Social Work / Drug Prevention and Counseling ( 03 
marks per each)
10 10
03 Language Proficiency
i. degree followed in other language other than mother tongue by a university 
or an institution recognized by the university Grants commission
ii. diploma course on English / tamil / Sinhala (10 marks per one language 
other than mother tongue - for two languages 15 marks)
III. Certificate courses on English / Tamil / Sinhala ( 05 marks per one 
language other than mother tongue - for two languages 10 marks)
15
15
10
15
04
05
Experience obtained related to the relevant field 
(Experience related to rehabilitation /Probationary / Social welfare / 
Law / community based correction)  Shall be confirmed by acceptable 
documents.
i. 05 years or more than that
ii. 04 years or more than that
iii. 03 years or more than that
iV . 02 years or more than that
V . 01 year or more than that
Vi. 06 months or more than that
knowledge on Computer
i. diploma obtained from government recognized institution duration of 
which is not less than 12 months.
II. Certificate Course duration of which not more than 09 months or not less 
than 06 months.
30
25
20
15
10
05
15
10
30
15

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
6
Subject Marks Maximum Marks
III. Certificate Course duration of which more than 03 months.
IV . Other certificates related to computer Literacy
05
03
06 Perfromance at the interview 05 05
10. applications should be in the form of the specimen 
appended at the end of this notification and prepared on 
22cm - 29cm, A4 size paper. The applicants shall fill the 
applications in their own handwriting. applications not 
complying with the specimen form of application appended 
at the end of this notification shall be rejected without any 
acknowledgement. it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the completed application form. Receipt of application 
shall not be acknowledged.
Note:
 i. if any candidate unable to furnish the original copies 
of the certificates mentioned in the application on 
request, the application will be rejected.
 ii. The officers in Public Service / Provincial Public 
Service and Government corporations should 
submit applications through their heads of 
departments / institutions.
 iii. Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, circulars issued from time to time 
concerning the Public Service and the conditions in 
the amendments made there to shall be applicable 
for this post.
(in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of the Gazette, the text in the Sinhala 
Language shall prevail.)
 R.P.S. 
Samankumari, 
 commissioner,
 department of community based  
 corrections.
For office use
Recruitment to the post of Community Correction 
Officer (Grade II) of Department of Community 
based Corrections (Open) - 2020
01. Personnel information :
 1. 1.1 full Name (Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––.
  1.2 full Name (English) :––––––––––––. 
 2. 2.1 Name With initials (Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––.
  2.2 Name with initials (English) :––––––––––––.
 3. 3.1 Permanent address (Sinhala / tamil) :–––––––. 
3.2 Permanent address (English) :––––––––––––.
 4.  Gender (male / female) :––––––––––––. 
 5.  marital Status (Single / married) :––––––––––––.
 6.  National identity card No. :––––––––––––. 
 7.  date of birth :
  y ear :                   month :   date :
 8.  age as at the closing date of application:-
  y ears :–––––––.   months :–––––––. days :–––––––.
 9.  telephone No. :––––––––––––. 
02.  details of the current Post :
 2.1 current Post :––––––––––––. 
 2.2 appointment date :––––––––––––. 
 2.3 Nature of the appointment (Permanent / Probation) 
:––––––––––––.
03.  Educational Qualifications:
 3.1 degree :––––––––––––.
 3.2 Name of the university :––––––––––––.
 3.3 Effective date of the degree :––––––––––––.
No. Qualification Name of the 
Institute
effective date of 
the qualification
04. Other Educational Qualifications :
No. Qualification Name of the 
Institute
effective date of 
the qualification

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
7
05. Professional Qualifications:
No. Qualification Name of the 
Institute
effective date of 
the qualification
06. other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
07. Experience :––––––––––––.
08. Certification of the Applicant:
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct. i am also aware that if 
any of the particulars in this application is found to be false 
or incorrect before selection my application will be rejected 
and i am liable to be dismissed from service without any 
compensation if any such information is found to be false or 
incorrect after selection.
   ––––––––––––,
   Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
09.  attestation of the Signature of the applicant :
i certify that the applicant mr/mrs/miss ..................... is 
known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature 
on ............................ in my presence.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester.
date :––––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––. 
(Place rubber stamp)
10.  Certification of the Head of the Department /Institution :
mr./mrs./miss ...................................... submitting 
the application is employed in this institution and holds a 
permanent and pensionable/ temporary post and fulfill the 
requirements mentioned in the Gazette notification relevant 
to apply this post and has not been subject to disciplinary 
punishment of any kind and i hereby state that he/she can / 
cannot be released from service if selected.
   –––––––––––––––––,
   Signature of the head of the deprtment/institute.
date :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
department/ institute :––––––––––––.
(Place rubber stamp)
12–201/1
–––––––––––––––––––––
STATE mINISTRy Of PRISON mANAGEmENT 
AND PRISONERS' REhAbILITATION 
management Assistant Non - Technical in the 
Department of Community based Corrections - 
Segment 2 
REcRuitmENt (oPEN) to thE PoSt of WoRk 
SuPERVISOR -2019(2020)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitable Sri Lankan 
citizens to fill 16 (Sixteen) vacancies (uva , North Central, 
North Western and Northern Provinces) existing in the 
post of Work Supervisor Grade iii in the department of 
community based corrections. applications prepared 
according to the specimen form of application appended 
at the end of this notification should be sent to reach 
the commissioner, department of community based 
corrections, No 35/a, dr.N.m.Perera mawatha, borella, 
colombo 08 by Registered Post and email to the email address 
dcbcorrection@gmail.com or submit application by hand 
on or before the date mentioned below. the top left corner 
of the envelope containing the application and the subject of 
the email should clearly bear the words "Recruitment to the 
Post of Work Supervisor -2019(2020)".
(a) closing date of application is 2021.01.15.
Note: - complaints made on the loss or delay of 
applications and other connected letters in the post 
will not be considered. the damages caused due 
to delay in the submission of applications until the 
closing date shall be borne by the applicant.
01. Summary of the duties assign to this post.– With 
regard to the community correction procedure of the 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
8
offenders which found guilty of an offence mentioned in the 
Community Based Correction Act No 46 of 1999 part II
• Assist Community Correction Officers to perform 
community correction duties
• assist to plan community correction programs
• Supervision of the duties when engage in social 
works in project areas.
• Provide reports to the officers regarding offenders 
who have breached the community correction orders 
by offender house visits.
02. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment to the 
vacancy shall be based on the marks of a structured 
interview conducted by an interview panel appointed by 
the commissioner of the department of community based 
corrections. the effective date of the appointments will be 
determined as per the decision of the commissioner of the 
department of community based corrections.
03. Conditions for engagement in service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
you will be subject to any policy decision 
taken by the government regarding the 
pensions scheme in future. you should 
contribute to the Widows'/ Widowers' and 
orphans' Pension Scheme.
 (ii)  this appointment is subject to 3 years probation 
period and first efficiency bar examination shall 
be passed within 03 years from the date of 
recruitment.
 
 (iii) Shall acquire the relevant proficiency in other 
official language in addition to the language 
in which the officer joined the service, within 
five years from the date of recruitment to the 
post as per the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014. Officers who joined the service 
in a language medium which is not an official 
language shall acquire the proficiency in the 
prescribed language within three (03) years from 
the date of recruitment and shall acquire the 
proficiency in the other official language within 
five (05) years from the date of recruitment . 
Shall acquire the Second Language Proficiency 
related to category iii or follow a course contain 
same syllabus ,150 hours as the duration.
 (iv) this appointment shall be subject to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations of the government and 
other departmental orders.
04. Salary scale.– in terms of the public administration 
circular No 3/2016, mN1-2016 be the initial salary scale.   
R s .  2 7 , 1 4 0  - 1 0  x  3 0 0 - 1 1  x  3 5 0 - 1 0  x  4 9 5 - 1 0  x  6 6 0  -                                                                                                 
Rs. 45,540 /-
05. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level) Examination in 
six(06) subjects at one sitting with credit passes in
 (i) Sinhala/tamil/English Language
 (ii) mathematics
  and
 (iii) two other subjects
(b) Pass one subject at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) Examination (other 
than the common General Paper).
06. experience.– one year experience obtained from 
government recognized institution related to Social Work 
and Social Services
07. Age Limit.– Shall be not less than 18 years of age and 
not more than 30 years as at the closing date of application.
08. Qualifications.– Every candidate shall be physically  
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and to 
perform the duties of the post.
Other Qualifications :
• Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
• Shall be of an excellent character
• Shall have satisfied the qualifications in all aspects as 
at the closing date of application.
09. Structured interview.– marks will be given by an 
interview panel appointed by the commissioner of the 
department of community based corrections.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
9
marking scheme of the Structured interview: 100 marks
Subject Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 20
02. English Language Proficiency 20
03. knowledge on computer 25
04. Other Qualifications (Other than 
the main qualification of one year 
experience)
30
05. according to the approval of the 
interview panel Leadership , Personality 
and communication skills
05
06. total 100
10. applications should be in the form of the specimen 
appended at the end of this notification and prepared on 
22cm - 29cm A4 size paper .The applicants shall fill the 
applications in their own handwriting . applications which 
not satisfy the main qualifications in all aspects , delayed 
applications and not complying with the specimen form of 
application appended at the end of this notification shall 
be rejected without any acknowledgement. it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form. Receipt of application shall not be acknowledged.
Note:
 i. if any candidate unable to furnish the original copies 
of the certificates mentioned in the application on 
request, the application will be rejected.
 ii. The officers in Public Service / Provincial Public 
Service and Government corporations should 
submit applications through their heads of 
departments / institutions.
 iii. Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, circulars issued from time to time 
concerning the Public Service and the conditions in 
the amendments made there to shall be applicable 
for this post.
(in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of the Gazette, the text in the Sinhala 
Language shall prevail.)
 R.P.S. 
Samankumari, 
 commissioner,
 department of community based  
 corrections.
For office use
Recruitment to the post of Work Supervisor 
(Grade III) of Department of Community based 
Corrections (Open) - 2019(2020)
01. Personnel information :
 1. full Name (Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––––.
  full Name (English) :––––––––––––. 
 2. Name with initials (Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––.
  Name with initials (English) :––––––––––––.
 3. Permanent address (Sinhala / tamil) :–––––––. 
Permanent address (English) :––––––––––––.
 4.  Gender (male / female) :––––––––––––. 
 5.  marital Status (Single / married) :––––––––––––. 
 6.  National identity card No. :––––––––––––.  
 7.  date of birth :
  y ear :                   month :   date :
 8.  age as at the closing date of application:-
  y ears :–––––––.   months :–––––––. days :–––––––. 
 9.  telephone No. :––––––––––––. 
02.  Educational Qualifications :
 2.1 G. c. E. (o/L) Exam Results :
  (1) Exam year :––––––––––––.
  (2) index No. :––––––––––––.
  (3) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 
 2.2 G. c. E. (a/L) Exam Results :
  (1) Exam year :––––––––––––.
  (2) index No. :––––––––––––.
  (3) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 3.
2. 4.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
10
03. Experience on Social works / Social Services :–––––––.
04. Other Qualifications:
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that if 
any of the particulars in this application is found to be false or incorrect before selection my application will be rejected and 
i am liable to be dismissed from service without any compensation if any such information is found to be false or incorrect 
after selection. if i got selected for this post i hereby declare my desire to serve in any part of the island.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant :
i certify that the applicant mr/mrs/miss .......................... is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature 
on ........................... in my presence.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date  :––––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Place  rubber stamp)
Certification of the Head of the Department / Institution for the officers in Public Service / Provincial Public Service :
mr./mrs./miss .................................. submitting the application is employed in this institution and holds a permanent 
and pensionable/ temporary post and i hereby state that he/she can / cannot be released from service if selected.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department.
 (Place rubber stamp)
date :––––––––––––.
12–201/2
–––––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Agriculture
StatE miNiStRy of LiVEStock, faRm 
PRomotioN aNd daiRy aNd EGG RELatEd 
iNduStRiES
recruitment for the poSt of Veterinary Surgeon 
grade iii of Sri Lanka animaL production and heaLth 
SerVice - 2020
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible Veterinary 
Science graduates, as per the order of the Public Service 
commission, to select suitable candidates for the post 
of Veterinary Officer, Grade III,  Animal Production and 
health Services, Sri Lanka, for one hundred and nineteen 
(119) vacancies. Applications prepared in accordance 
with the prototype at the end of this notice should be sent 
by registered post to the director General, department of 
animal Production and health, Po box 13, Getambe, 
Peradeniya on or before the following date. on the left hand 
corner of the cover it should be clearly marked "Post Grade 
III Veterinary Officer of Sri Lanka Animal Production and 
health Service.
(a) the last date for calling applications is 08.01.2021

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
11
Note: complaints that an application or related letter 
is lost or delayed in the mail cannot be considered. 
applicants should bear the loss due to delay in 
application till the last date. applications that do 
not meet the basic qualifications will be rejected.
01. Method of Recruitment to the Service :
 I.  Vacancies in the posts of Veterinary Officers 
will be filled on the basis of the Merit Document 
published by the faculty of Veterinary medicine, 
university of Peradeniya. applicants who obtain 
Veterinary Degree Qualifications from another 
university recognized by the university Grants 
commission will be included at the end of the 
merit List, respectively, on the date of registration 
for the year in which they qualify for registration 
with the Sri Lanka Veterinary council.
  ii.  Number of Vacancies a total of 110% of the 
candidates will be called for interview and 
recruitment will be done in the order of merit list. 
No marks will be awarded for the interview.
 iii.  the number of appointments and the effective 
date of appointments will be decided as per the 
order of the Public Service commission.
02. Terms of employment :
 (i)  this post is permanent. With pension, you will 
be subject to future policy decisions by the 
government regarding your pension scheme. 
also, you have to contribute to the Widows 'and 
orphans' Pension Scheme / Widows(male) 'and 
orphans' Pension Scheme. you will have to pay 
the contribution as required by the Government 
from time to time.
 (ii)  Selected candidates will be appointed to fill the 
vacancies in the post of Veterinary Officer in Sri 
Lanka animal Production and health Services.
 (iii)  candidates who are appointed to the post should 
have the relevant level of language proficiency 
as per Public administration circular 18/2020 
and the accompanying circulars. your medium 
of enrollment is the medium through which you 
completed your degree.
 (iv) this appointment is subject to the terms and 
conditions of the Service minutes of Sri Lanka 
animal Production and health service published 
in the gazette No. 1840/51 of 13.12.2013 and the 
amended regulations issued from time to time, 
to the procedural rules of the Public Service 
commission, to the Establishment code  of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to 
the financial Regulations of the government and 
to other departmental regulations.
03. Salary Scale.– according to Schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the 
monthly salary scale for this post is Rs. 47,615 - 10 x1,335 - 
8 x 1630 - 17 x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 / - (SL – 1–2016).
04. Educational Qualifications .– degree in Veterinary 
Science from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission.
05. Age Limit.–must be not less than 21 years of age on 
the last date for receipt of applications and not more than 35 
years of age.
06. Physical Qualifications.– all candidates should be 
of adequate physical and mental fitness to serve in any part 
of Sri Lanka and to perform the duties of the post and the 
good physical condition should be confirmed by a medical 
examination report.
07. Other Qualifications :
 (i) applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) applicants must be of excellent character.
 (iii) All the qualifications required for recruitment 
to this post should have been completed in all 
respects, including registration with the Sri 
Lanka Veterinary council by the closing date for 
applications.
08. Interview:
8.1 General interview: (No marks will be awarded.)
 Checking whether the qualifications mentioned 
in the service minute and the notice issued in 
accordance with it are met and the fitness is 
checked.
09. How to apply:
 (i) the application form should be prepared 
according to the specimen application using both 
sides of A4 paper measuring 22-29 cm.
 (ii) originals of the following documents should be 
submitted when notified for interview.
(a) Birth certificate
(b) Degree and other relevant certificates
(c) Two character certificates obtained recently 
(one of which should be obtained from the 
Grama Niladhari of the area of   residence 
and certified by the Divisional Secretary).

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
12
(d) Certificates of the highest examinations 
passed in Sinhala / tamil and English 
languages
(e) Certificate of Registration as s veterinary 
surgeon in the Veterinary council of Sri 
Lanka.
10. Other provisions :
 (i) the Public Service commission will have the 
power to take decisions on matters not provided 
in this Gazette Notification.
 (ii) the Public Service commission has the right to 
make the final decision on filling/ not filling or 
filling only a part of the vacancies.
 (iii)  if there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English language texts in this Gazette 
Notification then the Sinhala language texts 
should be in force.
 (iv) if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his 
candidacy will be annulled.
 (v) a candidate may be dismissed if he / she is found 
to have deliberately misrepresented an important 
point, or if he / she has deliberately suppressed an 
important point.
as per the order of the Public Service commission,
 Sumedha perera WWV RWP RSP uSP ndu
 major General (Retd),
 Secretary,
 ministry of agriculture.
SPECImEN APPLICATION
APPLICATION FOR THe POST OF VeTeRINARY SURGeON IN CLASS II GRADe II OF THe SRI LANKA ANIMAL 
PRODUCTION AND HeALTH SeRVICe
(For Office use)
01.   (i)  Name with initials :- 
    in Sinhala :…………………………………………………………………………..
    in English (in English block capitals ) :
    (ii) Name denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :-
02. N. i. c. No. :-
03. Postal address :- ……………………………………………………………………………
 (change of the address should be informed immediately)
04. the permanent address is belonged :-
   i. Provincial council  :- ……………………..
   ii. district :- ……………………..
05.  date of birth :  year :- ……………      month :- ……………      date :- ……………….
       age as at the closing date of the application :    years :- ……………      months :- ……………      days :- …………….
 
06.  (a) Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :-  …………………………..
       (b) Nationality : (Sinhala /Sri Lanka tamil /indian tamil / muslim / other) :- ………………….
07.  (a) Sex (male / female) :- …………………….
       (b) civil Status :(unmarried/married/widow) :- …………………….

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
13
08.  Educational Qualification :
Degree/Post Graduate 
Qualifications
Class University Year
09. Registration No of the Sri Lanka Veterinary Council and the date  :- ……………………
10.  Service particulars (if you hold a permanent post at present) :
The post held Period of service Place of work Department/
Provincial Councilfrom to
11.  i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am also aware that if any 
particulars are found to be false or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection and to dismissals without 
compensation if detected after appointment. i also certify that i have not being convicted for any criminal offence by 
any court of law.
date :-  …………………... …………………………….
   applicant's Signature.
(only for the applicants in the permanent and pensionable post at present)
i declare that the above applicant mr./mrs./miss. .......................... is holding the post of ............................ in this 
department/Provincial council and the particulars stated in the application are accurate when checked with his/her personal 
file. He/She can be released/cannot be released from Department/Provincial/Public service if selected for this post. (Delete 
the words not relevant)
 
 ...............................................
date  :- …………………. head of the department.
Address  :- ………………… (Official Stamp).
–––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of IRRIGATION
Irrigation Department
PoStS iN thE GRadE iii of ENGiNEERiNG aSSiStaNtS’ SERVicE iN thE iRRiGatioN dEPaRtmENt
APPLICATIONS are invited for filling posts of Engineering Assistants, Grade III of the Engineering Assistants’ Service in 
the irrigation department.
applications prepared in compliance with the specimen application form attached herewith must be sent by 
registered post on or before 11.01.2021,addressed to the director General of irrigation, No. 230, bauddhaloka mawatha, 
colombo 07.
any application received after this date shall be rejected.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
14
1. the words “Posts in the grade iii of engineering 
assistants’ service in irrigation department” must be written 
on the top left corner of the envelope. 
2. Salary Scale.– after the successful completion of the 
training period, the monthly consolidated salary entitled 
for this post as per the Public administration circular 
3/2016 is mN3 Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660-10730-10x750-                                  
Rs. 57,550. (There will be an Efficiency Bar Examination 
prior to the annual salary step of Rs. 32,375/=)
3. Educational and Other Qualifications :
 (a)  Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 (b)  Shall be not less than 18 years and not more than 
30 years of age to the date of 11.01.2021. (the 
upper age limit will not apply to employees in 
Provincial and Public Service) 
 (c)  Shall be of excellent moral character
 (d)  the candidate shall be in good health and shall 
require under going a medical examination 
conduct by a government medical officer to certify 
that the candidate is physically fit to serve in any 
part of Sri Lanka
 (e)  Shall have fulfilled the education qualifications 
mentioned under i, ii, iii, iV , V , Vi, Vii, Viii 
below. 
 (i)  Passing the G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination in six (06) subjects including 
credit passes for Sinhala/t amil, English 
Language, mathematics and Science within 
one sitting
  and
  Passing the G.c.E. (advanced Level) 
Examination as per the old syllabus within 
one sitting in subjects relevant to the fields 
of Physics, Pure mathematics, applied 
mathematics and chemistry as per the old 
syllabus
  or
  Passing the G.c.E. (advanced Level) 
Examination as per the new syllabus within 
one sitting in three (03) subjects relevant 
to the fields of Advanced Mathematics 
or combined mathematics, Physics and 
chemistry 
 (ii)  Passing the G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination in six (06) subjects including 
credit passes for Sinhala/t amil, English 
Language, mathematics, Science and one 
other subject within one sitting
  and
  Passing the G.c.E. (advanced Level) 
Examinationas per the old syllabus within 
one sitting in subjects relevant to the fields 
of Physics, Pure mathematics, applied 
mathematics and chemistry as per the old 
syllabus
  or
  Passing the G.c.E. (advanced Level) 
Examination as per the new syllabus within 
one sitting in three (03) subjects relevant 
to the fields of Advanced Mathematics 
or combined mathematics, Physics and 
chemistry 
  And vocational qualifications
 (iii) Shall have obtained the certificate upon 
following the diploma in irrigation 
Engineering at an irrigation education 
institute in Galamuwa, kotamale.
  or
 (iv) Shall have obtained the certificate upon 
following the National diploma in 
technology (civil Engineering) at the 
university of moratuwa, katubedda. 
  or
 (v)  Shall have followed the higher 
National diploma in Engineering 
(civil Engineering) conducted by 
the Sri Lanka  institute of advanced 
technological Education, mattakkuliya
  or
 (vi) Shall have obtained the certificate in 
National diploma in Engineering Science 
(civil Engineering) conducted by the 
institute of Engineering technology, 
katunayake
  or
 (vii) Shall have obtained the certificate upon 
following diplomas in technology (civil 
Engineering) conducted by the open 
university of Sri Lanka
  or

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
15
(viii) Shall have obtained the certificate upon 
following course similar to above courses 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission or the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission
  these courses shall be of N.V .Q Level 6.
Note. – those that have completed the course and 
are not in possession of the certificate may also 
apply, but they will be required to produce the said 
certificate at the interview and the effective date 
of certificate shall be prior to the closing date of 
applications.
4. Method of Recruitment : 
(a) all the recruitments shall be made in terms of 
the Public Administration Circular No. 15/90 and 
in terms of the provisions of the Establishment 
code.
(b) (i) The Apprentices recruited with qualification 
under section 3.e(I) will be qualified to 
receive the diploma in irrigation Engineering 
awarded by the irrigation training institute, 
Galgamuwa of the irrigation department 
upon the successful completion of the 
fulltime course of three (03) years which 
consist two (2) years theoretical and one 
(01) year practical, conducted residential at 
the irrigation training institute, Galgamuwa 
under the irrigation department.
 (ii)  irrigation apprentices who fail the relevant 
examinations shall be allowed to extend the 
training by a period not more than 06 months 
at the discretion of the director General 
of irrigation, if the failure is not due to the 
negligence of duties, lack of interest or poor 
attendance. apprentices who failed shall 
pass all the relevant examinations including 
the final examination, which will be held at 
the end of the extended period of training. 
apprentices who fail the said examination 
shall have their service terminated. 
 (iii)  it is expected that apprentices shall present a 
satisfactory record of training by attending at 
least 80% of the lectures during the period of 
training. an apprentice if any who does not 
fulfilled the required minimum attendance 
and a satisfactory record of training will not be 
permitted to sit for the relevant examination 
and will have the training terminated as well.
 (iv)  apprentices who shall be recruited with the 
educational qualifications specified in above 
3.(e) (ii), (iii), (iv), (V), (Vi), (Vii), (Viii)
shall pass a practical test at the end of a 
training of six (06) months which consist of 
lectures and practical training as prescribed 
by the irrigation department.
 (v)  if these apprentices have successfully 
completed one year field training at the 
irrigation department, they shall be released 
from the training period of six (06) months 
which is due after the recruitment and they all 
shall appear for the practical test.
(c) all the lectures and training courses shall be 
conducted in English medium.
(d) those who complete the training successfully 
shall be appointed to posts in Grade iii of 
Engineering assistants’ Service in the irrigation 
department.
5. Conditions of the service : 
(a) this post is permanent and pensionable. Shall 
be subjected to the policy decisions taken by the 
government with regard to the pension scheme 
entitled to, in future. contributions shall be made 
to the Widows and orphans/ Widowers and 
orphans Pension Scheme.
(b) Applicants firstly, will be recruited as Irrigation 
apprentices.
(c) allowance paid for irrigation apprentices 
during the period of training. during the period 
of training, allowance as below will be paid to 
Irrigation Apprentices recruited on qualification 
as per Section 3.e. (i). 
 For the first year Rs. 27,140/= per month,
 for the second year Rs. 27,440/= per month,
 for the third year Rs. 27,740/= per month.
 Apprentices recruited with qualification indicated 
as Section 3.(e) (ii), (iii), (iv), (V), (Vi), (Vii), 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
16
(Viii) shall be paid an allowance of Rs. 27,740/= 
per month during their six months training period. 
 this allowance may continue to be paid during 
the extended period of training with the approval 
of the director General of irrigation. there will 
be no entitlement for other privileges or rights. 
(d)  irrigation apprentices are subject to provisions 
of the Establishment code and other regulations 
issued from time to time by the Government. 
they shall not be entitled for leave or holiday 
railway warrants during the period of training. 
(e)  these appointments are subjected to a probation 
period of three (03) years from the date of the 
accepting the formal appointment to the post 
of Engineering assistants Grade iii upon the 
completion of the period of apprenticeship.
(f)  Provisions from Section 10 to 12, chapter ii 
of the Establishment code shall be applicable 
regarding this service. 
(g)  candidates selected under 3 (e) i above, shall be 
required to sign an agreement undertaking, to 
serve a compulsory service period of 05 years 
in the post of Engineering assistant. in case it 
is needed to resign from the service prior to that 
period, the amount stated in the agreement must 
be paid to the government.
6. Applicants shall send copies of the following certificates 
along with their applications:
 I. Technical certificates obtained
 ii. certificate of G.C.E. (Advanced Level)
 III. Certificate of G.C.E. (Ordinary Level);
 IV . Birth Certificate issued by the Registrar 
General; 
 V . Three recent character certificates (One should 
be from the Principal of the last school or 
college attended and another from the Grama 
Niladhari of the residential area.) 
Note.- The copies of the above certificates will not be 
returned. 
7. Employees of Provincial and Public Services shall send 
their applications through the head of their departments. 
8. applicants shall sit for a written examination held in 
colombo and several other selected districts and appear for 
an interview held in colombo at their own expense. 
9. They shall be prepared to serve in any part of the 
country at any time when their services are required. the 
candidates shall note that the construction worksites of the 
department are normally situated in rural areas with poor 
transport and lodging facilities. Specially, the selected 
candidates will be posted to following service stations and 
have to serve there at least for five years. Those who are 
not willing to serve in the said service stations must not 
apply. those service stations include irrigation divisions 
of ampara, Pottuwil, kalmunai, akkaraipattu, mahaoya, 
Padaviya, Rajanganaya, huruluwewa, mapakada, badulla, 
kandeketiya, Nawakiri, Rugam, tissa, Weeraketiya, 
hambantota, Wellawaya, Welioya, bibile, monaragala, 
Polonnaruwa, kaudulla, Elahera, inginimitiya, Puttlam, 
muthtur, kantale, Gomarankadawala, murunkan, Vavunia 
and project offices. 
10. if any false information furnished in the application 
is revealed before recruitment the candidature is liable for 
cancellation. if such false information is revealed after 
recruitment, their service will be terminated. in addition, 
legal action shall have to be taken against furnishing false 
information. 
11. attention is drawn to the Section ii (a) of Part i in the 
Gazette of Sri Lanka for rules and regulations imposed on 
appointing to the government posts. 
12.  Conditions in the Procedural Rules No. 1589/30 
dated 20.02.2009 issued by the Public Service Commission 
and the provisions of the Establishment codes are applicable 
regarding each appointment.
13. your appointments, Grade Promotions, conditions 
of the service etc. shall be subjected to the minute of the 
Engineering assistants’ Service of the irrigation department 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 2013/31 dated 
07.04.2017 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka.
14. the decision on a matter if any, for which the 
provisions are not provided in above No.13, will be taken by 
the Public Service commission.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
17
15. if any inconstancy between Sinhala, tamil and 
English texts of this Gazette Notification occurs, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 Eng. k. d. nihaL Siriwardana, 
 director General of irrigation.
irrigation department, 
No.230, bauddhalokamawatha, 
colombo 07,
on 11th december 2020.
Application form
miniStry of irrigation
irrigation department
POSTS IN THe GRADe III OF eNGINeeRING 
ASSISTANTS’ SeRVICe IN THe IRRIGATION 
DeP ARTMeNT
01.  (a) full Name : …………………………………………
   (in Sinhala)
 (b)  full Name: …………………………………………
   (in English capital letters )
 (c)  Name with initials:  ...................................................
       (in English capital letters )  
 
02. Sex: ……………………………………………………
03.  (a) Postal address : ……………………………………
  (in Sinhala)
 (b)  Postal address: …………………………………… . 
(in English capital letters )
 (c)  Permanent address: …………………………………
 (d)  t elephone Number: ...................................................
  Residence:  .................................................................
   mobile:  .....................................................................
 (e)  E-mail address: .........................................................
04. Residential district: ........................................................
05. divisional Secretary’s division: ………………………
06. Date of birth (Attach a copy of birth certificate): 
 (a) y ear:..............., month:…………, date: ………
 (b)  Place of birth: ............................................................
 (c)  age as at11.01.2021: 
  y ears :..............., months :…………, days : ………
07. National identity card No. : ............................................
08. are you a citizen of Sri Lanka? :–––––––––––. yes/No. 
  Race:  
    Sinhala 
    Sri Lankan tamil 
    indian tamil 
    moor 
    others 
09. Educational qualifications (Attach copies of certificates): 
 9.1  G.C.E. (O/L) Examination: 
  index No. : …………………………. 
  y ear: ……………………………….
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
 9.2  G.C.E. (A/L) Examination: 
  index No. : …………………………. 
  y ear: ……………………………….
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
10. Technical qualifications (Annex copies of certificates) :
   ...................................................................................
  (Please mention the names of the course and technical 
institute.) 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
18
11.  have you left service/ resigned/ been terminated/ been dismissed while serving in a Government department in Provincial 
Public Service? Reasons, if yes : ……………………………………………………………………
12. Particulars of your current employment:
 (a)  Post: ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (b)  institution: ……………………………………………………………………………………......……………………
 (c)  date of appointment: …………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (d)  Nature of appointment: ………………………………………………………………………………………………..
13. i do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me are true and correct. i am also aware that if any information 
furnished above are found to be false prior to the selection I shall be disqualified for this post and if found out after the 
appointment i am liable to be dismissed from the service without any compensation.
 ……………………………………,
 Signature of the applicant.
date: ………………… 
Recommendation of Head of Department/(for applicant in Government Department and Public Service only)
i hereby certify that …………………………….. is an employee of this department/institution and his/her work 
and conduct are satisfactory and conforms to the requirements and conditions prescribed for applying for this post. i further 
mention that he/she can /cannot be released from the service if selected.
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of head of department.
 (Official Stamp)
Name: …………………………………………
Post: …………………………………………..
address: ……………………………………..
date: …………………………………………..
12–369
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
amendment 
mINISTRy Of LANDS
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRuitmENt to aPPRENticE SuRVEyoR PoStS iN thE 
SuRVEy dEPaRtmENt of SRi LaNka - 2020
THE syllabus mentioned under 02(a) in the exam notification of "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
apprentice Surveyor posts in the Survey department of Sri Lanka - 2020" published in the Gazette of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2193 dated 11th September 2020, should be amended as below.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
19
Name of the question paper Time (Hours) Maximum Marks Passed Marks
1 comprehension 02 100 40
2 intelligence test 01 100 40
3 General knowledge 01 100 40
01. Comprehension.– a number of short texts is given to the candidates by these question papers limited for a period 
of two hours (02). certain texts are given to express in one sentence. Questions for which comments should be provided to 
the underlined words are also given. a number of alternative statements is given to the candidates in respect of certain other 
text and one of them is most suitable for the contents included in this text. candidates should select the most appropriate 
statement from it. Several questions will be given to the candidate in regard to certain other texts. correct answers for them 
are expected. these questions are prepared to test the manner in which the candidate grasps the meaning of such texts. in 
addition to this, a long text will be given for summary writing. 
02. Intelligence Test.– this paper which is limited to one hour, has been prepared to assess the logical state of 
thinking of the candidate, analytical competence of his mind and his decision making power. this question paper will consist 
of multiple choice and short answer questions. all questions should be answered. 
03. General Knowledge.– this is a general question paper which is limited to one hour to test the knowledge of the 
entire gamut including political, social, cultural and economical and environmental state of Sri Lanka and the technological 
and technical developments as well as nationally and internationally important contemporary matters. all questions should 
be answered. 
 a
. L. ShyamaLi chitraLekha perera, 
 Surveyor General. 
Survey department, 
colombo 05,
30th November, 2020.
12–293
––––––––––––––––––––––––
LImITED COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO ThE POSTS 
IN fIELD/OffICE bASED- SEGmENT 2 
SERvICE CATEGORy (mN-05-2016) Of ThE 
DEPARTmENT Of ARChAEOLOGy uNDER 
ThE STATE mINISTRy Of NATIONAL 
hERITAGE, PERfORmING ARTS AND RuRAL 
ARTS PROmOTION -2020/2021
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the qualified 
candidates for the following posts relevant to Field/Office 
based- Segment 2 Service category (mN-05-2016) of the 
department of archaeology. accordingly relevant posts, 
which have fallen vacant, are mentioned below and the 
applications prepared as per the specimen attached below 
should be sent to reach the commissioner General of 
Examinations on or before 13.01.2021. this examination 
will be held in colombo in march 2021. the director 
General of archaeology reserves the right either to postpone 
or cancel the examination subject to the approval of the 
Public Services commission.
01. Regional Explorer - 04
02. Regional Excavation and Museum Officer - 02
03. Regional conservator - 05
04. Regional maintenance manager - 02
01. Method of Recruitment.–  a number of candidates 
equivalent to the number of vacancies in each post, out of the 
those, who have passed the written examination and satisfied 
qualifications prescribed in the notification for examination 
will be called for the interview on the order of marks 
secured and on the order of posts applied by candidates and 
recruitments will be made on the verification of educational 
qualifications and physical fitness of candidates.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
20
02. Written examination.- this examination will consist 
of the following question papers.
 i. archaeology
 ii. history of Sri Lanka
General Interview : all candidates are required to answer 
for all the question papers of the examination and they should 
secure at least 40% of marks for each subject for passing 
the examination. candidates, who pass the examination, 
will be called for the general interview based on the order 
of marks secured and on the order of posts applied by them. 
Educational qualifications and the physical fitness will be 
verified at this interview but no marks will be allocated at 
the interview.
03. Conditions for engagement in the service  : this post 
is permanent. you will be subjected to any policy decision 
made by the government in future with regard to the pension 
scheme to which you are entitled. further the candidates, 
who are selected subject to the general conditions governing 
the appointments in the public service, all the conditions 
prescribed in the scheme of recruitment for the posts relevant 
to Field/Office Based- Segment 2 Service category (MN-
05-2016) of the department of archaeology and approved 
by the Public Services Commission on 01.09.2016, the 
revisions approved on 04.07.2019 and the revisions, which 
have already been made and purported to be made in future, 
will be appointed to a post in Grade II of Field/Office Based- 
Segment 2 Service category.
3.1 the appointments of the candidates, who fail 
to assume duties of the post on due date and/ 
or reject or avoid assuming duties of a post or 
area where he/she is appointed, are liable to be 
cancelled.
04. Monthly salary scale.– the monthly salary scale 
applicable to these posts as per schedule i of Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is                                                                                                               
Rs. 34,605 - 10 x 660 - 11 x 755 - 15 x 930 - Rs. 63,460/- 
(mN-05-2016). you will be paid the salaries as per the 
provisions of the said circular as indicated in Schedule ii 
of the same.
(the selected candidates should pass l
st efficiency bar 
within the period of 03 years from the date of appointment 
and the 2
nd efficiency bar within 05 years from the date of 
appointment to class i. further they should acquire the level 
of proficiency in official language prescribed as per Public 
administration circular No. 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007 
before the lapse of 05 years from the date of appointment.)
05. Health Condition : the candidate should be of sound 
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the Island.
06. Qualifications : candidates, who apply for these 
posts,
i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
ii. (a) Educational qualifications for the Post of Regional 
Explorer - 
 Should have possessed
 (i) a Special degree in archaeology (four years) 
from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission.
  or
 (ii) a degree with from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission and Post 
Graduate diploma in archaeology of which the 
duration is not less than one year.
  or
 (iii) A degree with educational qualifications 
higher or equivalent to Post Graduate 
diploma in archaeology of which duration is 
not less than one year and awarded from an 
institution recognized by the university Grants 
commission.
  experience:
 (i) Should be an officer, who has completed an 
active and satisfactory service of 05 years in 
a post of Exploration Officer/ Archeological 
Research Officer or Development Officer under 
related service category of the department 
of Archaeology belonging to the field of 
exploration along with the above mentioned 
educational qualifications
  or
 (ii) Should have completed. as the experience, an 
active and satisfactory service of 02 years in 
the grade i of the post of Exploration assistant 
in management assistant Non-t echnological 
Segment 2 service category (mN 01) of the 
department of archaeology and passed the 
efficiency bar examination applicable to 
grade i, without applying above educational 
qualifications.
 (b)  Educational Qualifications for the Post of Regional 
Excavation and Museum Officer -

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
21
 Should have possessed
 (i) a Special degree in archaeology (four years) 
awarded from a university recognized by 
university Grants commission
  or
(ii) a degree with a Post Graduate diploma in 
archaeology of which duration is not less 
than one year and awarded from a university 
recognized by university Grants commission
  or
 (iii) A degree with educational qualifications 
higher or equivalent to Post Graduate 
diploma in archaeology of which duration is 
not less than one year and awarded from an 
institution recognized by the university Grants 
commission
 Experience:
 (i) Should be an officer, who has completed an 
active and satisfactory service of 05 years in 
a post of Excavation Officer/ Excavation and 
Museum Officer/ Archeological Research 
Officer or Development Officer belonging to 
the field of Excavation and Museum under 
related service category of the department of 
archaeology along with the above mentioned 
educational qualifications.
  or
 (ii) Should have completed, as the experience, 
an active and satisfactory service of 02 years 
in the grade i of the post of Excavation 
assistant/Excavation and museum assistant 
in management assistant Non-t echnological 
Segment 2 service category (mN 01) of the 
department of archaeology and passed the 
efficiency bar examination applicable to 
grade i, without applying above educational 
qualifications.
(c) Educational Qualifications for the Post of Regional 
conservator -
 Should have possessed
 (i) a degree in architecture or architectural 
conservation awarded from a university 
recognized by university Grants commission
  or
 (ii) full membership of Sri Lanka institute of 
architects
 experience :
 (i) Should be an officer, who has completed an 
active and satisfactory service of 05 years in 
a post of Archaeological Research Officer 
belonging to the field of conservation under 
related service category of the department of 
archaeology along with the above mentioned 
educational qualifications.
  or
 (ii) Should have completed, as the experience, 
an active and satisfactory service of 05 
years in the grade ii of the post of technical 
Officer (Conservation Assistant)/Draftsman 
in Supervisory management assistant 
technological service category (mN 03) of the 
Department of Archaeology or being an officer 
in grade i, without applying above mentioned 
educational qualifications
  or
 (iii) Should have completed, as the experience, 
an active and satisfactory service of 02 
years in the grade i of the post of Laboratory 
assistant/ Laboratory conservation assistant 
in management assistant Non-t echnological 
Segment 2 service category (mN 01) of the 
department of archaeology and passed the 
efficiency bar examination applicable to 
grade i, without applying above educational 
qualifications.
 (d) Educational Qualifications for the Post of Regional 
maintenance manager -
 Should have possessed
 (i) a degree in civil Engineering awarded from 
a university recognized by university Grants 
commission
  or
 (ii) a degree in built Environment /architecture 
awarded from a university recognized by 
university Grants commission
  or
 (iii) a Special degree in archaeology awarded 
from a university recognized by university 
Grants commission
  or

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
22
 (iv) a degree with archaeology as a subject and 
Post Graduate diploma in archaeology of 
which the duration is one year and awarded 
from a university recognized by university 
Grants commission
  or
 (v) a degree with archaeology as a subject and 
educational qualifications higher or equivalent 
to Post Graduate diploma in archaeology of 
which duration is not less than one year and 
awarded from an institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission
  or
 (vi) a degree in technology awarded from a 
university recognized by university Grants 
commission
 Experience:
 (i) Should be an officer, who has completed an 
active and satisfactory service of 05 years in a 
post of Site manager/ archaeological Research 
Officer or Development Officer belonging to 
the field of Archaeology under related service 
category of the department of archaeology 
along with the above mentioned educational 
qualifications
  or
 (ii) Should have completed, as the experience, 
an active and satisfactory service of 05 
years in the grade ii of the post of technical 
Officer (Conservation Assistant/Draftsman 
in Supervisory management assistant 
technological service category (mN 03) of the 
Department of Archaeology or being an officer 
in grade i, without applying above mentioned 
educational qualifications
  or
 (iii) Should have completed, as the experience, an 
active and satisfactory service of 02 years in 
the grade i of the post of maintenance assistant 
in management assistant Non-t echnological 
Segment 2 service category (mN 01) of the 
department of archaeology and passed the 
efficiency bar examination applicable to 
grade one, without applying above mentioned 
educational qualifications
 iii. the effective date of the degree should be a 
date falls on or before 13.01.2021.
 IV . All the qualifications required to sit for the 
examination should have been satisfied in each 
and every way as at 13.01.2021.
 V .  the age limit will not be applicable to the 
officers, who are already in public service. 
07. Method of Application :
(a) the application should be in the form of 
the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared on a paper of size                                                                               
8 1/2" x 12" (a-4) using both sides. it should be 
specially noted that the application forms should 
be prepared in a manner where No. 1.0 to 5.0 
should appear on the first page, No. 6.0 to 9.0 
and No. 10.0 to 12.0 should appear on the second 
page and third page respectively. it is essential 
to mention the name of examination mentioned 
on the top of the application in English language 
as well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala 
and tamil mediums. application should be 
filled in the hand writing of the candidate in 
same language medium in which the candidate 
applies to sit the examination. any application, 
which is not complete in every aspect and does 
not comply with the specimen, is liable to be 
rejected without any notice. the candidate 
should be satisfied himself/herself to the effect 
that the application complies with the specimen 
indicated in the notification for examination 
and the receipt has been affixed indicting the 
particulars thereof. applications that do not 
comply with the specimen will be rejected. (it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
and the receipt issued for the payment of 
examination fee with the candidate)
(b) The application should be filled in the language 
in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination
(c) examination Fee : the examination fee is 
Rs.600/-. It should be paid at any Post Office/ 
or district/ divisional secretariat to be credited 
to Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of commissioner 
General of Examinations. one edge of the receipt 
obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of 
the application form so as not to be detached. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
23
money orders or Stamps are not accepted for 
examination fees. under no circumstances the 
examination fee will not be refunded or changed 
for another examination. it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
(d) the duly perfected application form for the 
examination should be sent by Registered 
Post to reach the commissioner General of 
Examination, organization (institutional and 
foreign Examination) branch, department 
of Examinations, P.o.box 1503 on or before 
13.01.2021. the words “Posts relevant to 
Field/Office Based- Segment 2 Service 
category (mN-05-2016) of the department of 
archaeology-2020/2021" should be clearly 
indicated on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope enclosing the application. any 
application received after the closing date will 
not be accepted.
(e) candidate's signature in the application form 
should have been attested by the head of the 
institution or an officer in staff grade authorized 
by him/her for the purpose.
(f) any application, which is not complete in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in the 
post will be considered.
08. the commissioner General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards to the candidates, who are within 
the age limits prescribed in the Gazette notification, and 
have sent their duly perfected application along with the 
receipt for the payment of examination fee on or before the 
closing date of applications, on the supposition that only 
those who have possessed qualifications prescribed in the 
Gazette notification. A notification will be published in the 
newspapers by the department of Examinations immediately 
after the issuance of admission cards. if the admission card is 
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, 
steps shall be taken to notify the organization (Establishment 
& foreign Examinations) branch of department of 
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
When informing, the name of the examination applied for, 
full name, address and the Nic number of the candidate shall 
be indicated correctly. it would be advisable for candidates 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request along with a fax 
number of the candidate to the department of Examinations 
through the fax number mentioned in the notification for 
sending a copy of the admission.
further, it would be advisable to keep a copy of the 
application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment of 
examination fee and the receipt of registration of the 
application to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations.
candidates are not allowed to enter the examination hall 
without an admission card. only the admission card, on which 
the signature of the candidate has been certified, should be 
submitted to the chief invigilator of the examination on the 
first day of examination. The issuance of an admission card 
to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
9.  Identity of the Candidate : a candidate is required to 
prove his/her identity when sitting for each question paper at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. for 
this purpose, only one of the following documents shall be 
accepted.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid driving license
further the candidates should enter the examination 
hall without covering their face and ears enabling the 
identification. Any candidate, who refuses to reveal his/ 
her identity, will not be allowed to sit the examination. 
candidates should remain in the examination hall during the 
whole time of examination without covering face and ears 
enabling invigilators to identify the candidate.
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information: candidates 
are bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for holding and 
issuance of results of the examination. candidates are liable 
to any punishment impose by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in violation of the rules and regulations of the 
examination. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his / 
her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, 
during or after the examination. if it is found that a candidate 
has furnished information with knowledge that they are 
false, or if he / she has willfully suppressed any material fact, 
he/she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
11. any matter not provided for in these regulations will 
be dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the State 
ministry of National heritage, Performing arts and Rural 
arts Promotion subject to the instructions given by the 
Public Service commission.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
24
12. Method and language medium of the examination : the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English 
mediums.
13. Method of selection: the examination will be a written test which consists of the following syllabus. candidates, who 
become eligible after sitting all the question papers of the examination, will be called for the general interview.
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
1. archaeology
1. matters pertaining to build the past of Sri Lanka by way of studying the artifacts 
found in exploration and excavations (Physical evidences).
2. matters pertaining to the conservation and maintenance of artifacts found in 
explorations and excavations and making the general public aware in this regard
2. history of Sri Lanka 1. matters pertaining to build the past by way of studying the facts such as written 
evidences, historical evidences (Wansakatha) and inscriptions etc.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala notification 
should prevail.
 dr. Senarath diSSanayaka, 
 director General of archaeology.
department of archaeology,
colombo 07,
02nd december, 2020.
(For office use only)
Specimen of Application
LimitEd comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRuitmENt to thE PoStS iN fiELd/ officE baSEd 
SEGmENt 2 (mN-05-2016) of thE dEPaRtmENt of aRchaEoLoGy uNdER thE StatE miNiStRy of 
NatioNaL hERitaGE, PERfoRmiNG aRtS aNd RuRaL aRtS PRomotioN- 2020/2021
(indicate the language medium of the examination)
(Sinhala-2, tamil-3, English-4)
 
             (indicate the post/posts applied for)
1.0 1.1  Name in full :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.2. Name in full (mr./mrs./miss) :––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 1.3. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.4. Name with initials (mr./mrs./miss) :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
2.0. 2.1.  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
25
 2.2.  Permanent address :––––––––––––. 
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
3.0 3.1. Sex:  male - 0  female - 1
 3.2. date of birth : y ear :           month :             date :
 3.3.  age as at 13.01.2021 :   y ears :    months :      days :
4.0  Number of the National identity card :
5.0. contact Number : fixed line
     mobile
6.0. Educational Qualifications
 6.1. Degree Qualifications
University Degree effective Date Pass
 
 6.2.  Other Educational Qualifications :
University/Institution Course followed effective Date Pass
7.0. Experience :
Post Period of service
8.0. Particulars of the post held at present :
 8.1. Present service station :––––––––––––. 
 8.2. Post held at present and grade :––––––––––––.
 8.3. date appointment to the post :––––––––––––.
 8.4. total period of service in the department :––––––––––––.
 8.5. Date of confirmation in the post :––––––––––––.
9.0.  Have you ever been convicted from a court for any offense?
  (indicate P in the relevant cage) (if the answer is yes, indicate particulars)
              yes   No
 
Affix the edge of the receipt issued for the payment of examination fee so as to not to be detached

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
26
10.0. declaration of the candidate:-
i declare that information given in this form is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and all parts of the 
application have correctly been perfected. i also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and also aware 
that I am liable to be disqualified before the appointment and further to dismissal from service after appointment, if my 
declaration is found to be false. further, i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner General 
of Examinations for conducting and issuing the results of this examination.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
11.0. attestation of the applicant's signature:
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ....................................... who submits this application is known to me personally 
and he/ she placed his/her signature in my presence on .............................
   ––––––––––––––––,
   Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
date  :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature  :––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––. 
(To be confirmed by placing the Official Stamp)
12.0 Recommendation of the director in charge of the division/ assistant director or Regional assistant director :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./ miss ...................................... who submits this application, is serving in the post 
of ................................ my Division/ Office from ................................  his/ her work and attendance are satisfactory and 
no charge has been leveled against him/her and further the particulars furnished by him/ her are accurate and the receipt 
obtained on payment of the examination fee is affixed.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the director in charge of the division/ assistant 
 director or Regional assistant director
 (To be confirmed by placing the Official Stamp)
date  :––––––––––––.
12–332/1
––––––––––––––––––––––
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR RECRuITmENT TO ThE POSTS IN fIELD/ OffICE 
bASED -SEGmENT 2 (mN-05-2016) Of ThE DEPARTmENT Of ARChAEOLOGy uNDER ThE 
STATE mINISTRy Of NATIONAL hERITAGE, PERfORmING ARTS AND RuRAL ARTS 
PROmOTION -2020/2021
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from qualified candidates for the following posts in Field/ office based - Segment 2 
(mN-05-2016) of the department of archaeology. Posts which have fallen vacant are mentioned below and the application 
prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent to reach the director General of archaeology on or 
before 13.01.2021. this examination will be held in colombo in march 2021. the director General of archaeology reserves 
the right either to postpone or cancel the examination subject to the approval of the Public Services commission.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
27
 1. Regional Explorer - 02
 2. Regional Excavation and Museum Officer - 02
 3. Regional conservator - 03
 4. Regional maintenance manager    - 02
01. Method of recruitment : the number of candidates 
equivalent to twofold of the number of vacancies in each 
post will be called for an interview on the order of marks 
secured and on the order of posts applied by candidates, who 
have possessed qualifications prescribed in the notification 
for calling applications and passed the written examination, 
and accordingly recruitments will be made on verification of 
educational qualifications and physical fitness of candidates.
02. Written examination.–  this examination consists of 
the following question papers.
 i. archaeology
 ii. history of Sri Lanka
General interview : all candidates are required to answer 
for all the question papers of the examination and they should 
secure at least 40% of marks for each subject for passing 
the examination. candidates, who pass the examination, 
will be called for the general interview based on the order 
of marks secured and on the order of posts applied by them. 
Educational qualifications and the physical fitness will be 
verified at this interview but no marks will be allocated at 
the interview.
03. Conditions for engagement in the service  : this post 
is permanent. you are subjected to any policy decision taken 
in future by the Government in connection to the pension 
scheme entitled to you. a candidate ,who is selected subject 
to the general conditions, which govern the appointments of 
the public service, all conditions relevant to the scheme of 
recruitment for the posts in Field/ office based - Segment 2 
(mN-05-2016) of the department of archaeology approved 
by the Public Services Commission on 01.09.2016, revisions 
made later on 04.07.2019 and further the revisions which 
have already been made and which are purported to be made 
in future to the scheme of recruitment, will be appointed to 
a post in grade II of Field/ office based -Segment 2 of the 
department of archaeology.
3.1 the appointment of those ,who fail to assume duties 
on the prescribed date of the post granted to him/
her, or/and reject or avoid to assume duties in the 
post or area to which such candidate is attached, 
will be cancelled.
04. Monthly salary scale.– in terms of the schedule i 
of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016 the monthly salary scale applicable to this post is 
Rs.34,605 -10 x 660 - 11x 755 -15 x 930- Rs. 63,460/-(MN-
05- 2016). Salaries will be paid as mentioned in Schedule 
ii inconsistent with the provisions of the aforesaid circular.
(It is required to pass the 1st Efficiency bar within 03 
years from the date of appointment and second efficiency bar 
examinations within 05 years from the date of appointment. 
Further the competency in the prescribed level of official 
languages should be acquired as per Public administration 
circular No. 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007 before the lapse of 
05 years from the date of appointment.)
05. Health condition.– the candidate should have the 
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the Island.
06. Qualifications : candidates who apply for these posts,
 i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Should be of an excellent moral character.
 iii. Should be not less than 21 years of age and 
not more than 35 years of age as at 13.01.2021 
(accordingly the candidates, whose date of birth 
falls on or before 13.01.2000 and on or after 20 
are eligible to submit their applications)
 iV . (a)  Educational Qualifications for the post of 
Regional Explorer and Regional Excavation 
and Museum Officer
 Should have possessed
 (i) a  special degree in archaeology (four 
years) from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission.
  or
 (ii) a  degree with the archaeology as a 
subject and Post Graduate diploma in 
archaeology awarded from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission
  or
 (iii) a  degree with the archaeology as a 
subject with any other educational 
qualification equivalent or higher than 
the one year Post Graduate diploma in 
archaeology awarded by an institution 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
28
  (b) Educational Qualifications for the post of 
Regional conservator
 Should have possessed a degree 
either in architecture or architectural 
conservation awarded by a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission
  or
  full membership of the Sri Lanka 
architects institution
 (c) Educational Qualifications for the post of 
Regional maintenance manager
 Should have possessed a degree in 
civil Engineering/ built Environment/ 
architecture from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission
 V . Effective date of the degree should be a date falls 
on or before 13.01.2021.
 VI. The candidate should have satisfied each and 
every way the qualifications prescribed for 
applying for the examination before 13.01.2021.
 
07. Method of Application :-
(a) the application should be in the form of the 
specimen- appended to this notification and should 
be prepared on a paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (a-
4) using both sides. it should be specially noted 
that the application forms should be prepared in 
a manner where No. 1.0 to 5.0 should appear on 
the first page, No. 6.0 to 9.0 should appear on 
the second page. it is essential to mention the 
name of examination mentioned on the top of 
the application in English language as well, in 
applications prepared in both Sinhala and tamil 
mediums. any application, which is not complete 
in every aspect, is liable to be rejected. (it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application 
with the candidate) the applicant should be 
satisfied himself/herself to the effect that the 
application complies with the specimen indicated 
in the notification for examination. Applications 
that do not comply with the specimen will be 
rejected.
 for the convenience of the interested parties, 
facilities have been made available to download 
the application for the examination prepared 
correctly from the website of the department of 
archaeology, (www.archaeology.gov.lk)
(b) The application should be filled in the language in 
which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) It is not necessary to attach copies of any certificate 
along with the application.
(d) the completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by Registered 
Post to reach the commissioner-General of 
Examination, organization (institutional and 
foreign Examination) branch, department 
of Examinations, P.o.box 1503 on or before 
13.01.2021. the words “Posts Relevant to field/
Office Based - Segment 2 Service Category (MN-
05-2016) of the department of archaeology 
-2020/2021" should be clearly indicated on the 
top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. any application received after the 
closing date will not be accepted.
(e) candidate’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of a 
Government School, a Justice of the Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-Law, Notary 
Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed 
Forces, an Officer holding a gazetted post in the 
Police Service or an Officer in staff grade holding 
a permanent post in the public Service, chief 
incumbent of a buddhist temple, Nayaka thero, 
a priest of other religious place or a priest holding 
a considerable status in religious order.
(f) any application, which is not complete in every 
aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in the post 
will be considered.
08. Method and language medium of the examination  : 
the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English 
mediums.
Note
 i.  the candidates should answer all question 
papers of the examination in one and the same 
language.
 ii.  a candidate shall not be permitted to change 
the language medium of the examination,  
indicated in the application.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
29
9. examination fee : The examination fee is Rs. 1,200/-. It should be paid at any Post Office/ or District/ Divisional secretariat 
to be credited to Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of commissioner General of Examinations. one edge of the receipt obtained 
should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application form so as not to be detached. it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt. money orders or Stamps are not accepted for examination fees. under no circumstances the examination  
fee will not be refunded or changed for another examination.
10. Method of selection: the examination will be a written test which consists of the following syllabus. candidates, who 
become eligible after sitting all the question papers of the examination, will be called for the general interview.
Name of the question paper Syllabus
1. archaeology
1. matters pertaining to build the past of Sri Lanka by way of studying the artifacts 
found in exploration and excavations (Physical evidences).
2. matters pertaining to the conservation and maintenance of artifacts found in 
explorations and excavations and making the general public aware in this regard
2. history of Sri Lanka 1. matters pertaining to build the past by way of studying the facts such as written 
evidences, historical evidences (Wainsakatha) and inscriptions etc.
11. the commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to the candidates, who are within the age 
limits prescribed in the Gazette notification, and have sent their duly perfected application along with the receipt for the 
payment of examination fee on or before the closing date of applications, on the supposition that only those who have 
possessed qualifications prescribed in the Gazette notification have submitted their applications. A notification will be 
published in the newspapers by the department of Examinations, immediately after the issuance of admission cards. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall be taken to notify the organization 
(Institutional & Foreign Examinations) Branch of Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
When informing, the name of the examination applied for, full name, address and the Nic number of the candidate shall be 
indicated correctly. it would be advisable for candidates outside colombo to fax a letter of request along with a fax number 
of the candidate to the Department of Examinations through the fax number mentioned in the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. further, it would be advisable to keep a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment 
of examination fee and the receipt of registration of the application to prove any information requested by the department 
of Examinations. The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates are not allowed to enter the examination hall without an admission card. 
Only the admission card, on which the signature of the candidate has been certified, should be submitted to the Chief 
Invigilator of the examination on the first day of examination.
12. Identity of the Candidate  : a candidate is required to prove his/her identity when sitting for each question paper at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose, only one of the following documents shall be 
accepted.
 i.  National identity card 
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid driving license
Further the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears enabling the identification. 
any candidate, who refuses to reveal his/ her identity, will not be allowed to sit the examination. candidates should remain 
in the examination hall during the whole time of examination without covering face and ears enabling invigilators to identify 
the candidate.
13. Penalty for Furnishing False Information : candidates are bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for holding and issuance of results of the examination. candidates are liable to 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
30
any punishment impose by the commissioner General of Examinations in violation of the rules and regulations of the 
examination. if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during 
or after the examination. if it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are false, or if he/ 
she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
14. any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary of the State 
ministry of National heritage, Performing arts and Rural arts Promotion subject to the instructions given by the Public 
Service commission.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English medium notifications, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail.
 dr. Senarath diSSanayaka, 
 director General of archaeology.
department of archaeology,
colombo 07,
02nd december, 2020.
(For office use only)
Specimen of Application
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR REcRuitmENt to thE PoStS iN fiELd/ officE baSEd 
SEGmENt 2 (mN-05-2016) of thE dEPaRtmENt of aRchaEoLoGy uNdER thE StatE miNiStRy of 
NatioNaL hERitaGE, PERfoRmiNG aRtS aNd RuRaL aRtS PRomotioN- 2020/2021
(indicate the language medium of the examination)
(Sinhala-2, tamil-3, English-4)
 
             (indicate the post/posts applied for)
1.0 1.1  Name in full :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 1.2. Name in full (mr./mrs./miss) :––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 1.3. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.4. Name with initials (mr./mrs./miss) :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
2.0. 2.1.  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2.  Permanent address :––––––––––––. 
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
3.0 3.1. Sex:  male - 0  female - 1
 3.2. date of birth : y ear :           month :             date :
 3.3.  age as at 13.01.2021 :   y ears :    months :      days :
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
31
4.0  Number of the National identity card :
5.0. contact Number : fixed line
     mobile
6.0. Educational Qualifications
 6.1. Degree Qualifications
University Degree effective Date Pass
 
 6.2.  Other Educational Qualifications :
University/Institution Course followed effective Date Pass
7.0.  have you ever been convicted from a court for any offense?
  (indicate P in the relevant cage) (if the answer is yes, indicate particulars)
           yes               No
 
Affix the edge of the receipt issued for the payment of examination fee so as to not to be detached
08.0.  declaration of the candidate:-
i declare that information given in this form is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and all parts of the 
application have correctly been perfected. i also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and also aware 
that I am liable to be disqualified before the appointment and further to dismissal from service after appointment, if my 
declaration is found to be false. further, i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by commissioner General 
of Examinations for conducting and issuing the results of this examination.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
09.0. Attestation of the applicant's signature:
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ....................................... who submits this application is known to me personally, 
that he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein and he/she placed his/her signature 
in my presence on ................................
   ––––––––––––––––,
   Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
date  :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature  :––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––. 
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
12–332/2

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
32
mINISTRy Of hEALTh 
Competitive Examination for Promotion to the 
Supergrade of the Public health management 
Service on Limited basis 2018 (2020)
it is hereby announced that the competitive Examination 
for the Promotion to the supra Grade of Public health 
management assistants' Service on Limited will be held in 
colombo in march 2021
02. Subject to the general conditions governing 
appointments in the public service and to the terms and 
conditions imposed by the Public health management 
assistants' service minute as published in the extraordinary 
Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
No. 2053/18 dated 09.01.2018 35% of the supra grade 
vacancies in the Public health management Service 
calculated as  at 31.10.2020 will be filled by promotion on a 
limited basis subject to the amendments or any amendments 
to the service minute
03. Officers of the Public Health Management Assistants' 
Service who are employed in the ministry of health and 
the hospitals and health institutions under it, who are 
paid under the Salary Scale mN-02-2016 as per Public 
Administration Circular No. 03/2016 and are confirmed in 
those appointments and has full filed the qualifications as 
per the paragraph 07 in this by 31.10.2020 eligible to apply. 
Officers belonging to the Provincial Public Service cannot 
sit for this examination.
04. the salary Scale of this post is mN-07-2016 of 
the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016 and the relevant monthly salary scale is 41,580 
/ -11 x 755 - 18 x 1030 - 68,425 / -. you will be entitled 
to that salary from 01.01.2020. Salary will be paid from 
the effective date of appointment as per the provisions of 
Schedule ii of that circular.
05. Terms of service:
 I.  The number of officers to be appointed and 
the effective date of the appointment shall be 
determined by the appointing authority. the 
Appointing Authority has the power not to fill 
any number of vacancies or all vacancies.
 II.  The average working hours of the officers of the 
Public health management assistants' Service 
are from 8.30 am to 4.15 pm on all days of 
the year. however, the above hours may vary 
depending on the need of the duty and the nature 
of the duty. they can also be employed at night 
depending on the need of the service and may be 
ordered for additional duties depending on the 
nature of the duty. The officers to be recruited 
will be subjected to serve 365 days a year.
 III.  Depending on the need of the service, the officers 
working in the health institutions and hospitals 
can be assigned to work on Saturdays, Sundays 
and public holidays. overtime or holiday pay or 
lieu leave may be available for that service.
 IV .  Officers performing duties prescribed by the 
Secretary to the ministry of health should post a 
security deposit of Rs. 5,000/=.
06. evaluation Methodology.– 35% of the super vacancies 
will be filled on a limited basis. Office Management, Office 
Systems, Establishments and Procedural Rules, Public 
finance management, General Question Paper - Part i - Part 
ii conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations 
on behalf of the health Services committee of the Public 
Service commission. candidates who have obtained the 
minimum score of 40% as mentioned above will be selected 
for the interview. Eligible candidates will be appointed by an 
interview board appointed by the health Services committee 
after a qualification test. The interview is only to check the 
credentials of the applicants and no scoring will be done.
Question Paper / Score Criteria Time 
Total marks
Duration Marks
1. Office Management 2  hours 100
2. Office Systems 2  hours 100
3. organizational functions and 
Procedure Rules 
2  hours 100
4. Public finance management 2  hours 100
5. General Question Paper - Part i
                                        Part ii
1 hour
1 hour
50
50
 I.  Office Management - Written Test (Duration 2 hours 
100 marks)
  organizational Structure, organizational Principles, 
task analysis and task assessment, Leadership, 
Supervision and decision making, communication, 
Public Relations, coordination and troubleshooting
 II.  Office System - Written Test (Duration 2 hours 100 
marks)
  Principles of office procedures, office procedures, 
documentation and filing, form control, office layout 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
33
and environment, job description, work study and 
methodology, work measurement, office operation 
manual
 iii.  organizational functions and Procedures - Written 
test (duration 2 hours 100 marks)
  Procedures to be followed in recruitment to the 
Public Service, Establishment of Public Officers' 
corporate affairs, maintenance of a Personal file, 
Powers on appointment, transfer, Promotion and 
termination of Public Service, Welfare, Privileges 
of Public Officers, Establishment of Government 
Offices The general understanding of the regulations 
and circulars issued so far is examined.
 iV .  Public finance management - Written test 
(duration 2 hours 100 marks)
  Responsibility of an annual accounting and 
Accounting Officer, Cash Management, Delegation 
of financial Liabilities, cash Receipt, accounting 
and Receipt, Payments, Public finance trust, 
V ote and bank accounts, Supplies and Services, 
Procurement, audit inquiries, Government 
the general understanding of the circulars and 
regulations issued so far on the use of offices is 
examined.
 V .  General Question Paper - Part i - Written test (time 
1 hour 50 marks)
  Nature of Public administration, Public 
administration Structure, Public Policy and New 
Government Reforms, fundamental Rights, human 
Rights, human Rights commission, ombudsman, 
Parliamentary Public Petitions Committee, Office 
Culture, Ethics and Values, Creating a Good Office 
Physical Environment and civil Sociological 
acceptance of status, duties to be performed by 
clients on public officials.
 Vi.  General Question Paper - Part ii - Written test 
(time 1 hour 50 marks)
  objectives of the department of health and 
ayurveda, health Service Structure of the Line 
ministry and Provincial councils, Elements and 
Related institutions in the health Sector, Structural 
development of the Patient care Service, hospital 
operations, ordering of Raw foods, acceptance 
and inspection of Quality of cooked foods, Surgery 
and knowledge of medical Equipment Supply and 
other Supplies, medical Statistics management, 
communication Role and Public Relations of 
medical institutions, hospital fees and Estate 
Productivity, hospitalized units and decentralized 
Specialized businesses, management of Paid 
Wards, how to act in a National and Emergency 
disaster consists of a visible question paper.
07. Qualifications :
7.1 (A) (i)  Should be a Grade I officer in the service
  or a
  (ii)  Should have been a Grade II officer who 
has completed at least eight (08) years 
of active and satisfactory service in 
the service and earned all the five (05) 
immediate increments.
   or a
 (B) Should have been a Grade II officer passed 
the degree of a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission and 
have completed at least five (5) years of 
active and satisfactory service and have 
earned all the five (05) preliminary salary 
increments.
7.2  Physical Fitness :
 Every candidate should be physically and 
mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and 
to perform the duties of the post.
7.3  Other Qualifications :
 (i)  candidates should be of excellent character.
 (ii)  All the qualifications required for 
recruitment to the post should have been 
completed by the last date (31.10.2020) of 
receipt of applications for recruitment.
 (iii)  Should not have been subjected to any 
disciplinary penalty during the 05 years 
preceding the closing date 31.10.2020 for 
applications.
Note: in case of intentional misrepresentation, action 
will be taken against the applicants and the heads 
of Departments who certified the applications 
subject to the instructions of the health Services 
committee of the Public Service commission. 
No marks will be awarded for qualifications not 
confirmed by personal file.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
34
08. How to apply :
(a) the application form should be in accordance 
with the sample form attached to this circular 
and should be completed using both sides of a4 
size paper. the application should be prepared 
in such a way that the headlines from 01 to 
7.10 of the application are included on the first 
page and the other headings on the other pages 
and it should be completed by the candidate 
himself in the medium in which he is applying 
to appear for the examination. the name of 
the examination mentioned in the title of the 
application should be in Sinhala in addition to 
Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in English 
in addition to tamil in tamil applications. as 
incomplete and incomplete applications which 
are not in line with the application form included 
in the notification will be rejected without notice, 
before submitting the application, the prescribed 
examination fee should be paid and the details 
of the application form should be included and 
the receipt should be pasted on the application 
form along with all the details and whether 
the application has been completed correctly. 
applications should be checked and handed 
over to the head of the institution before the date 
2021.01.04 and he / she personally certifies that 
the information submitted by each applicant/ 
applicant is true and correct to 
 “director (administration) 06,
  ministry of health,
  Po box 385,
  Ven. baddegamaWimalawansa thero mawatha,
  colombo 10. ”
 must be submitted by registered mail to the 
address before 2021.01.18 and should be sent 
at the top left corner of the envelope stating 
“application for competitive Examination on 
Limited basis for Public health management 
assistant Service(supra grade)”.
NB. - Letters of appointment will be issued to the 
selected candidates only for the name along with 
the initials mentioned in the application and the 
name should be mentioned correctly following 
the model mentioned in the application. No 
change in the name or inclusion / removal 
of certain parts will be allowed at the time 
of appointment. it will be useful to have a 
photocopy of the completed application and a 
photocopy of the receipt for the examination fee.
(b) the position and place of work held on the 
last day of the examination of the candidates 
applying for the examination shall be applicable 
to all matters relating to the examination and any 
changes made thereon after the submission of 
applications will not be considered.
(c) this examination will be conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English mediums. candidates can 
sit for this examination in only one of these 
language mediums of their choice and the 
medium of application will not be changed later.
(D.) Applicants should be satisfied that they have 
fulfilled the required qualifications before 
submitting the application. candidates who 
appear for the examination without the 
qualifications mentioned in this announcement 
are ineligible to be appointed even if they obtain 
a sufficient level of marks in the examination.
 (E) if the applicant is selected for the appointment, 
he / she should have the consent of the head of 
the department for release.
(f) candidates will be called for interview and their 
candidature will be canceled if it is found that 
they do not have the required basic qualifications 
as per the circular.
09. examination Fees :
 (i)  candidates should pay the examination fee of                                                                                                   
Rs. 600 / = to any Post Office / District / 
divisional Secretariat in the island under the 
head of Revenue General Examinations 20-03-
02-13 to be credited to the Government Revenue. 
Should be pasted so that it does not come off 
in the proper place in the application. Please 
note that this exam fee will not be refunded or 
transferred to another exam for any reason. it 
will be useful for you to be aware of keeping a 
photocopy.
 (ii)  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue the admission to the candidates who 
have paid the prescribed examination fee on 
or before the closing date of the application 
and submitted the completed application along 
with the relevant receipt. the department of 

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
35
Examinations of Sri Lanka will issue a press 
release stating this as soon as the examination 
tickets are issued. announcement posted
  if a candidate does not get his / her ticket even 
after 02 or 03 days, he / she should inquire 
about it from the organizations and foreign 
Examinations branch of the department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka as mentioned in the 
advertisement. in doing so, the applicant should 
state the name of the examination for which 
he / she has applied for, the full name of the 
applicant, the National identity card number and 
the address correctly. if the applicant is a resident 
outside colombo, he / she should inquire with 
the details along with the fax numbers of the 
applicant and the fax number mentioned in the 
advertisement stating the fax numbers of the 
candidates who can obtain the copies of the 
examination admission forms expeditiously. 
in doing so, it will be useful to have a copy of 
the application, copy of the receipt of payment 
of examination fee and the receipt registered at 
the time of posting the application to confirm 
any information requested by the department of 
Examinations.
10. Sitting for the exam :
 (i)  if an applicant has not received the admission 
after the issuance of the admission to the 
applicant, the name of the examination, the full 
name of the applicant, the National identity card 
number and the address should be written in the 
copy of the receipt of payment and informed to 
the department of Examinations. (in case of an 
applicant outside colombo, the fax number to 
which the tickets should be sent should also be 
submitted along with the above details).
 (ii)  The applicant's signature should be certified 
on the application and on the admission for the 
examination. Every candidate applying for the 
examination should obtain his / her signature 
from the head of the institution or an authorized 
officer and certify it. He is allowed to appear for 
the examination only at the examination center 
allotted to him and in doing so he should first 
submit the certified admission form to the Head 
of the Examination hall. candidates who do not 
submit the ticket will not be allowed to appear 
for the examination.
11. one of the following documents should be submitted 
to the head of the Examination hall to prove the identity of 
the candidates.
 (i)  National identity card
 (ii)  Valid Passport
 (iii)  Valid driving license
candidates should also enter the examination hall without 
covering their faces and faces so that they can verify their 
identities. candidates who refuse to prove their identities 
will also be admitted to the examination hall furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until 
the end of the examination and leaving, the examination 
authorities should not cover the face and face so that the 
candidate can be identified.
12. Penalties for false information.– careful and 
accurate information must be provided when filling out the 
application. according to the rules of this examination, if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature can 
be canceled at any time before or during the examination 
or after the examination. if any information provided by an 
applicant is found to be false at any time, he / she will be 
dismissed from the public service.
13. issuance of an Examination admission card to a 
candidate should not be considered as recognition that he 
or she has qualified to sit for the examination. Candidates 
are also subject to the rules and regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conduct of the examination. if he or she violates those 
rules, he or she will be subject to a penalty imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
14. any other matter not mentioned herein shall be 
decided by the health Services committee of the Public 
Service commission. all candidates will be bound to abide 
by the rules of the General Examination mentioned in this 
Gazette Notification.
15. if there is any inconsistency between these Sinhala, 
tamil and English press releases, then the Sinhala press 
release should be followed.
 dr.  S. h. 
munaSinghe,
 Secretary,
 ministry of health.
30th November 2020,
ministry of health.
385, Suwasiripaya,
Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
36
SamPLE aPPLicatioN foRmS
competitiVe examination for promotion to the 
Supergrade of the pubLic heaLthmanagement SerVice on 
Limited baSiS 2018 (2020)
Language medium for appearing for the examination
     
 Sinhala  - 2
 tamil  - 3
 English  - 4
(Must be completed by the officer himself)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
01. 1.1. full Name (in English) :––––––––––––––. 
    1.2.  Name with initials at the end (in capital letters) 
  E.g. SiLVa a.b. :––––––––––––––.
   1.3.  full Name (Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––––––.
02. 2.1.  Official Address (in capital letters :––––––––––––.
  2.2.  Permanent address (in capital letters) :––––––––––.
 2.3.  Permanent address (Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––.
03. Gender (Write the relevant number in the box)
      female  - 0
      male  - 1
04. National identity card Number:
05. mobile phone number: 
06. birthday :
       year :––––––––.  month :–––––––––. date :–––––––––.
07. 7.1.  current Workplace and address :––––––––––.
  7.2.  first  appointment date of the service and 
appointment letter number :––––––––––.
  7.3.  current Position :––––––––––.
  7.4.  date of absorption to the present post :–––––––––. 
       (attach absorption letter)
  7.5.  date Promoted to Grade ii of the Service :––––––.
   7.5.1. date Promoted to Grade i of the Service :  
  :––––––––––.
        (attach articles)
 7.6.  Date of Completion of Efficiency Bar Test :–––––.
 7.7.  Period of service from the date of appointment to 
Grade ii to the last day of calling for applications :
             year :––––––––. month :–––––––. date :––––––––.
7.7.1. Period of service from the date of 
appointment to Grade i to the last date of 
call for applications
 y ear :––––––. month :––––––.day :–––––.
 7.8.  annual consolidated Salary to the last date of call 
for applications :––––––––––.
 7.9.  Degree from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission : yes/ No
 7.9.1.  If "yes" then the degree will be effective :
  –––––––––––.
 7.9.2. university / Institution :––––––––––––.
 7.9.3.  Degree :––––––––––––.
 7.10.  Salary increment dates and annual Salary Scales 
Earned from 31.10.2015 to 31.12.2020 :
Salary Increment 
Date
Annual Salary Scale 
(Rs.)
1
2
3
4
5
6
 7.11.  have any disciplinary action been taken against you 
in the last 5 years? :––––––––––––.
  if so, state the nature of the offense and the sentence 
imposed and the date of the sentence, etc. (attach 
copies) :––––––––––––.
08. if Nopay leave / half pay leave has been obtained, the 
number of days in that period:
09. Statement of the applicant :
I hereby confirm that all the information mentioned 
above is true and correct. i am also aware that if the above 
information provided by me is found to be inaccurate, my 
right to promotion to the highest rank in this constitution 
may be disregarded and disciplinary action may be taken 
against me.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Officer's signature.
date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
37
PaRt ii
Certificate  from the Head of Department / Head of Institution:
mr. / mrs/ms....................................................
1.  That he is a Grade I / II Officer in the Public Health 
Management Assistant Service;
2.  must have completed at least 08 years of active and 
satisfactory service in the service, have earned all 
salary increments in the previous 05 years and have 
completed an active and satisfactory period of service.
3.  Passed a degree from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission / Not applicable,
4.  (i) Date of completion of Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Grade i / ii
Accounting 
methods
Office 
methods
date of Examination
Exam No.
      (ii) Second Efficiency Bar Test Completed / Not 
completed
   if so, the reference number and date of the letter 
:––––––––––––.
5.  (i) if No pay leave / half pay leave has been obtained, 
those periods / number of days
      (from the date of promotion / promotion to Grade 
ii) :––––––––––––.
      (ii) a brief description of any form of punishment / 
punishments (except warnings) (also mention the 
reference number)  :––––––––––––.
6. Details of the relevant period if the officer has been 
released for the service of a corporation or any other 
statutory board: 
 by the date of 31.10.2010, Grade i / Grade ii 05 years / 
08 years of active service completed / not and passing / 
not applicable degree from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission, at least recommend 
that the satisfactory and active service period of 05 years 
/ 08 years has been completed / not, that all the above 
mentioned facts are correct according to the personal file 
and that the officer has fulfilled all the qualifications for 
promotion to the supra grade of the service as per the 
Public health management Service minute. i agree to be 
released from the present post if the applicant is selected 
for this post.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the institution.
 Name  :––––––––––––.
 title  :––––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––––. (Leave official seal)
12–333
––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh
Competitive Examination for Promotion to the Public 
health management Assistant Service (Supra Grade ) 
on merit basis- 2018 (2020)
it is hereby announced that the commissioner General of 
Examinations will conduct the competitive Examination 
for Promotion to the supra Grade of the Public health 
management assistants' Service on the basis of merit in 
march 2021 in colombo.
01. t o the general conditions governing appointments 
in the public service and to the terms and conditions laid 
down in the service minute of Public health management 
assistants' ordinance as published in the extraordinary 
Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
No. 2053/18 dated 09.01.2018 subject to the above or any 
amendments, 65% of the supra grade vacancies in the Public 
health management Service calculated as on 31.10.2020, 
will be filled by promotion on merit basis.
 
02. those who are employed in the ministry of health 
and the hospitals and health institutions under it, who are paid 
as per Public administration circular No. 03/2016 under the 
salary code MN-02-2016 and have been confirmed in those 
appointments as per paragraph 06 on 31.10.2020 Officers 
of the Public health management assistants' Service are 
eligible to sit for this examination. Officers belonging to the 
Provincial Public Service cannot sit for this examination.
03. the salary Scale of this post is mN7-2016 in the 
Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 
and the relevant monthly salary scale is Rs. 41,580 -11x755-
18x1,030- Rs. 68,425-. you will be entitled to that salary 
from 01.01.2020. Salary will be paid from the effective date 

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
38
of appointment as per the provisions of Schedule ii of that 
circular.
04. Terms of service :
 i. The number of officers to be appointed and 
the effective date of appointment shall be 
determined by the appointing authority. 
the appointing authority has the power 
not to fill any number of vacancies or all  
vacancies.
 ii. The average working hours of the officers of 
the Public health management assistants' 
Service are from 8.30 am to 4.15 pm on all 
days of the year however, the above hours 
may vary depending on the need of the duty 
and the nature of the duty. they can also be 
employed at night depending on the need of 
the service and may be ordered for additional 
duties depending on the nature of the duty. 
The officers to be recruited will be on duty 
365 days a year.
 
 iii.  depending on the need of the service, the 
officers working in the health institutions and 
hospitals can be assigned to work on Saturdays, 
Sundays and public holidays. overtime or 
holiday pay or lieu leave may be available for 
that service. 
 iV . Officers performing duties prescribed by the 
Secretary to the ministry of health should post 
a security deposit of Rs. 5,000.
05. Method of evaluation.– about 65% of the vacancies 
at the top level will be filled on merit basis. For this, a 
minimum of 50% marks should be obtained in the written 
examination conducted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on behalf of the health Services committee of 
the Public Service commission. Priority will be determined 
on the basis of the results and the order of the aggregate 
score based on seniority and experience by a panel appointed 
by the health Services committee of the commission. only 
those candidates who have obtained the minimum score of 
50% as mentioned above will be selected for awarding marks 
by the board. candidates must also appear for a qualifying 
interview before an interview board appointed by the health 
Services committee and will not be given marks at that 
interview. appointments will be made according to the order 
of merit and the number of vacancies available.
Question Paper / Score Criteria Time Total 
marks
i. challenge and case study 
(written test) 1 1/2 hours 100
ii. Seniority 60
iii. Experience 40
 i.  challenge and case Study - Written test (duration 
1 1/2% hours 100 marks)
  the date of this examination will be announced by 
the commissioner General of Examinations. the 
written test question paper for aptitude and case 
Study consists of two parts.
(a) Part i
 All issues will involve office administration, 
where common sense, decision making, 
logical resolution, and office administration 
issues will be addressed.
(b)  Part ii
 candidates are required to answer case 
studies related questions related to office 
administration. here the question paper will 
be prepared in one or more paragraphs.
 ii. Seniority :
  for Seniority, marks will be awarded as per Public 
Service Commission Circular No. 01/2019 dated 
13.06.2019.
 iii. experience :
  02 marks for Satisfactory one year as a Grade i 
Supervising Officer in the service up to a maximum 
of 40 marks only
Note: Scores for seniority and experience are given 
by a board of inquiry approved by the Public 
Service commission. candidates' marks in 
terms of seniority and experience will be 
evaluated by those officers based on the personal 
file. Disciplinary action will be taken against 
the applicants and the heads of departments 
who certified the applications subject to the 
instructions of the health Services committee 
of the Public Service commission if it is found 
that deliberately incorrect information has 
been entered. No marks will be awarded for 
qualifications not confirmed by personal file.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
39
06. Qualifications :
6.1  Professional Qualifications :
 (i) Should be an officer who has completed at 
least (05) years of active and satisfactory 
service in Grade i service on the due date.
 (ii) Should have completed a satisfactory service 
period of five (05) years preceding the due 
date.
6.2  Physical Fitness.- Every candidate should be 
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of 
Sri Lanka and to perform the duties of the post. 
6.3  Other Qualifications :
 (i) applicants must be of excellent character.
 (ii) All the qualifications required for 
recruitment to the post should be completed 
on the due date.
6.4. experience :
 on the due date, should have completed 5 years of 
active and satisfactory service from a permanent 
appointment in the service of the ministry of 
health or health institutions under that ministry 
and this should have been certified by the Head of 
the department.
Note: applicants must have completed a satisfactory 
five years of service prior to the due date. 
Satisfactory service here means the following.
- Should have received all the salary 
increments received during the five years 
prior to the due date.
- Should not have been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment during the 05 years 
prior to the due date.
the due date is 31.10.2020, the last date for eligibility 
testing.
07. How to apply :
(a) the application form should be in accordance 
with the specimen form attached to this 
circular and should be completed by the 
candidate himself using both sides of a4 size 
paper. applications should be handed over to 
the head of the institution on 04.01.2021 and 
all the applications after he / she personally 
certifies that the information submitted by each 
applicant is true and correct and
  “director (administration) 06,
  ministry of health,
  Po. box 385,
  Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, 
  colombo 10. ”
  must be submitted by registered post to 
the above address before 18.01.2021. 
the application form for the competitive 
examination on merit basis for the Public 
health management assistant Service (supra 
grade) should be mentioned in the upper left 
corner of the envelope.
NB - Letters of appointment will be issued to the 
selected candidates only for the name along 
with the initials mentioned in the application. 
No change of name or inclusion / removal 
of any parts will be allowed at the time of 
appointment.
(b) the position and place of employment of the 
candidates who were present on the last day for 
applying for the examination are applicable to 
all the activities related to the examination and 
any changes made in that regard after sending 
the applications will not be considered.
(c) this examination is conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English mediums. candidates can 
sit for this examina tion in only one of these 
language mediums of their choice and the 
medium of application will not be allowed to 
change later.
(d) .If the required qualifications are met, one 
officer can apply for both promotion on limited 
competitive examination and promotion 
on merit and separate applications should 
be submitted at the time of submission of 
applications.
(E) Applicants should be satisfied that they have 
fulfilled the required qualifications before 

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
40
submitting the application. candidates who 
appear for the examination without the 
qualifications mentioned in this announcement 
are ineligible for appointment even if they 
obtain a sufficient level of marks in the 
examination.
(f) departments for release of the applicant if he / 
she is selected for the appointment must have 
the consent of the chief.
(G) candidates will be called for interview and 
their candidature will be canceled if it is 
found that they do not have the required basic 
qualifications as per the circular.
08. examination Fees.– Examination fee Rs. 1,200  
and the examination fee will be paid in cash to any Post 
Office / District / Divisional Secretariat in the island 
under the Revenue head of the commissioner General of 
Examinations 20-03-02-13 and obtained in the name of 
the applicant by one of its edges the application should be 
pasted so that it does not come off in the proper place. there 
is no charge other than these examination fees. money orders 
or stamps will not be accepted for the examination fee and 
the examination fee will not be refunded or transferred for 
any other examination for any reason. it will also be useful 
to have a photocopy of the receipt.
09. Sitting for the examination :
 (i) if an applicant does not receive the ticket after 
the issuance of the ticket, the Examination 
department should inform the Examinations 
department by writing the name of the 
examination, the applicant's full name, National 
identity card number and address on the copy 
of the receipt of payment of the fee. (in case of 
an applicant outside colombo, the fax number to 
which the tickets should be sent should also be 
submitted along with the above details).
 (ii) The applicant's signature should be certified on 
the application and on the admission form for 
the examination. Every candidate applying for 
the examination should obtain his / her signature 
from the head of the institution or an authorized 
officer and certify it. In the examination centers 
set up at the provincial level, he is allowed to 
sit for the examination only at the examination 
center allocated to him and in doing so, he should 
first submit the certified admission card to the 
head of the Examination hall. candidates who 
do not submit the ticket will not be allowed to 
appear for the examination.
10. candidates should prove their identity to the 
satisfaction of the head of the hall for each subject they 
appear for in the examination hall. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for this purpose.
 (i) National identity card
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid Sri Lankan driving License
10.1. candidates should also enter the examination 
hall without covering their face and face so 
that they can verify their identity. candidates 
who refuse to prove their identities will not be 
admitted to the examination hall. furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination 
hall until the end of the examination and leaving, 
the examination authorities should not cover 
the face and face so that the candidate can be 
identified.
11. Penalties for false information.– careful and 
accurate information must be provided when filling out the 
application. according to the rules of this examination, if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature can 
be canceled at any time before or during the examination 
or after the examination. if at any time the information 
provided by an applicant is found to be untrue, he / she can 
be removed from public service.
12. candidates are subject to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conduct of the examination and the issuance of 
results. if he or she violates those rules, he or she will be 
subject to a penalty imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations.
13. if there is any other matter not mentioned herein, 
it will be decided  by the health Services committee of the 
Public Service commission. all candidates will be bound 
to abide by the general examination rules mentioned in this 
Gazette Notification.

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
41
14. if there is any inconsistency between these Sinhala, 
tamil and English press releases, then the Sinhala press 
release should be followed.
as per the order of the health Services committee of the 
Public Service commission,
 dr. S. h. munaSinghe,
 Secretary,
 ministry of health.
 
ministry of health, 
No. 385, "Suwasiripaya"
Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10. 
30th November, 2020.
Specimen application
comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR PRomotioN 
to thE SuPER GRadE of thE PubLic hEaLth 
maNaGEmENt SERVicE oN mERit 
baSiS - 2018 (2020)
Language medium for appearing for the examination
     
 Sinhala  - 2
 tamil  - 3
 English  - 4
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
(Must be completed by the officer himself)
01. 1.1. Name with initials at the end (in capital letters) 
  E.g. SiLVa a.b. :––––––––––––––.
   1.2.  full Name (English)  :––––––––––––––.
 1.3. full Name (Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––––––.
 1.4. National identity card Number :
02. 2.1.  Official Address (in capital letters :––––––––––––.
  2.2.  Permanent address (in capital letters) :––––––––––.
 2.3.  Permanent address (Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––.
03. Gender (Write the relevant number in the box)
      male  - 1
 female  - 0
      
04. telephone Number:
05. birthday :
       year :                            month :                date : 
06. 6.1.  current Workplace and address :––––––––––.
  6.2.  first  appointment date of the service and 
appointment letter number :––––––––––.
  6.3.  current Position :––––––––––.
  6.4.  date of absorption in the present post :–––––––––. 
       (attach absorption letter)
  6.5.  date Promoted to Grade i of the Service :–––––––.
  (attach articles)
  6.6.  Date of Completion of Efficiency Bar Test :–––––.
 6.7.  Period of service from the date of appointment to 
Grade i to the last date of call for applications :
             year :––––––––. month :–––––––. date :––––––––.
 6.8.  annual consolidated Salary to the last date of call 
for applications :––––––––––.
 6.9.  Salary Increment Dates and Annual Salary Scales 
Earned from 31.10.2015 to 31.12.2020 :
Salary Increment 
Date
Annual Salary Scale 
(Rs.)
1
2
3
4
5
6
 6.10.  have any disciplinary action been taken against you 
in the last 5 years? :––––––––––––.
  if so, state the nature of the offense and the sentence 
imposed and the date of the sentence, etc. (attach 
copies) :––––––––––––.
 6.11. if unpaid leave/half pay leave has been taken, the 
number of days in that period  :––––––––––––.
07. Information on office supervision and experience from 
the date of entry into Public health management 
Assistant Grade I up to 31.10.2020: (Attach the certified 
copy of the experience attested here by the head of the 
institution to the application form respectively. original 
of the Officer's Performance Reports It is useful to have 
certified copies attached on the pages (after promotion 
to first grade).

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
42
Hospital / Office /
the Department of
Period Supervisor post
held by the officer
Time confirmation
letters attached /
absentdate
From
To date Years Months
08. details of Receipt of Payment of Examination fees:
 (i) Post Office / Sub Post Office Paying Examination Fees :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt Number and date :––––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid: 
Paste here so that the receipt does not come off
(it is useful to keep a copy of the receipt.)
i declare that the above details are correct and that 1 am entitled to sit for this examination in the language medium 
mentioned above. i also declare that i am subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations regarding the conduct of examinations and the issuance of results.
 –––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Signature certification
An officer in my office and I know personally  ............................................................................................ mr / mrs 
..................................................... 1 certify that the date was signed in front of me and that the receipt has been affixed after 
paying the due examination fee / paying the prescribed examination fee.
date :––––––––––––. –––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the certifier.
Name of the Certifying Officer :––––––––––––.
Position :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Confirm with official seal)
PaRt ii
Certificate from the Head of Department / Head of Institution
1. complete the information based on the performace appraisal from the date of appointment to class 1 as per the officer's 
personal file

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
43
Performance year Supervisor position held by the officer according to the performance 
report
from day to day Proof is not proven
2020/  / 2019/ /
2019/  / 2018/ /
2018/  / 2017/ /
2017/  / 2016/ /
2016/  / 2015/ /
2015/  / 2014/ /
2014/  / 2013/ /
2013/  / 2012/ /
2012/  / 2011/ /
2011/  / 2010/ /
2010/  / 2009/ /
2009/  / 2008/ /
2008/  / 2007/ /
 2.  That the officer is a Grade I officer of the Public Health Management Assistant Service :––––––––––––.
 3. Not having completed at least 05 years of active and satisfactory service in the service :––––––––––––.
 4. that all salary increments have been earned in the previous 05 years and that an active and satisfactory period of 
service has been completed  :––––––––––––.
 5. That the efficiency bar test has been passed within the relevant period :
  Grade II Efficiency Bar Test :––––––––––––.
  Grade 1 Efficiency Bar Test :––––––––––––.
 6. (i)  if unpaid leave / half pay leave has been obtained, the number of days in that period (from the date of promotion 
/ promotion to Grade ii) :––––––––––––.
  (ii)   if you have been subjected to any kind of punishment / punishment (except warnings) please provide a brief 
description (also mention reference number) :––––––––––––. 
 7. If the officer has been released for the service of a corporation or any other statutory body, details of the relevant 
period ...................................... Grade i / Grade ii of the service has completed / has not completed 5 years of active 
service as on 31.10.2020 and has completed / is not having completed at least 05 years of satisfactory and active 
service, according to the personal file mentioned above I recommend that the officer has fulfilled all the qualifications 
for promotion to the highest rank of the service as per the Public health management assistant Service minute.
 Signature of the head of the institution :––––––––––––.
 Name of :––––––––––––.
 title :––––––––––––.
 (Leave the official seal)
12–334

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
44
mINISTRy Of IRRIGATION
Irrigation Department
oPEN comPEtitVE ExamiNatioN foR thE 
REcRuitmENt to thE PoSt of StoRE kEEPER
iN GRadE iii iN thE iRRiGatioN 
dEPaRtmENt-2021
1. aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from qualified Sri 
Lankan citizens to fill the vacancies in the posts of Store 
keeper in Grade iii in the irrigation department. 
1.1. Post expected to be recruited and the number of 
vacancies- Store keeper (iii)- 07
1.2. Nature of the duties of the post-keeping in charge 
and the proper issuance of the general offices 
storage items and machineries, engineering 
materials relevant to the construction worksites 
and projects of the department are the duties 
applicable to this post.
2. Method of Recruitment :
the open competitive examination for this recruitment 
is a written test conducted in Sinhala, English and tamil 
media. the language medium applied for shall not be 
allowed to change subsequently. candidates who pass 
the examination will be selected in the order of which 
they obtained the highest marks. (it is compulsory that 
all the qualifications mentioned in this notification shall 
have been fulfilled). 
3. Monthly salary scale applicable for this post : 
Relevant to the salary code mN-1-2016,                                                             
Rs. 27,140- 300x10- 350x11- 495x10- 660x10-                          
Rs. 45,540 as per the Public administration circular 
03/2016 and salary will be paid as per the provisions 
of the said circular. after appointing to the post, the 
Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed before 
reaching the fourth salary step.
4. Service category: management assistant Non-technical 
– Segment 02
1.1 Grades-  Grade iii
  Grade ii
  Grade i
5. Conditions of employment:
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable.Shall be 
subjected to the policy decisions taken by the 
government with regard to the pension scheme 
entitled to, in future. contributions shall be made 
to the Widow’s/Widower’s and orphans Pensions 
Scheme. the appointment is subjected to a 
probation period of three (03) years. 
 II. Provisions of the Procedural Rules No. 1589/30 
dated 20.02.2009 issued by the Public Service 
commission are applicable.
 iii. as per the Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 and circulars incidental thereto, the 
relevant language proficiency shall be obtained 
within the prescribed period.
 IV . Offices associated with the construction worksites 
of the department are located indifficult areas 
with poor transport facilities. the day and night 
service is compulsory due to the project duties 
and as required by the service in emergency 
situations such as flood.  Those service stations 
include irrigation divisions and project offices 
in ampara, Pottuvil, kalmunai, akkaraipattu, 
Padaviya, Rajanganaya, huruluwewa, mapakada, 
badulla, kandaketiya, Navakiri, Rugam, thissa, 
Weeraketiya, hambanthota, Lunugamwehera, 
Wellawaya, bibile, moneragala, Polonnaruwa, 
kaudulla, Elehera, inginimitiya, Puttlam, muthur, 
kantale, murunkan and Vavuniya.
6. Age limit:
 the age shall be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years as at the closing date of applications. 
7. Educational and other qualifications:
 7.1 Educational qualifications :
 (a)  Shall have passed G.c.E (o/L) Examination 
in six subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil/English language, mathematics and 
two other subjects within one sitting
  and
 (b)  Shall have passed at least one subject at the 
G.c.E (a/L) Examination (except for the 
common General test)
 7.2 Physical fitness :
  Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve and 
to perform duties of the post in any part of Sri 
Lanka

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
45
 7.3 Other :
 (a)  Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (b)  Shall be of excellent moral character
 (c) it is accepted that all the requisite 
qualifications for this post have been 
completed only if the applicant has 
completed the relevant qualifications and 
the prescribed age limit in every aspect as 
at the closing date. 
 (d)  In addition to the qualifications in above 
8(1.1)(a)(b), the successful completion of 
the three (03) months training on the Store 
keeping conducted by the Galgamuwa 
irrigation training institute during the 
probation period is a qualification required 
to be confirmed in the service.
8. Furnishing false information:
Application shall be filled very carefully and accurate 
information shall be provided. if any candidate is found 
to be unqualified, his/ her candidature shall be cancelled 
at any stage prior to, during or after the examination. if 
any information furnished by a candidate is found to be 
false at any stage, he/she shall be dismissed from the 
Public Service.
9. Procedure of the examination:
9.1 Written tests :
Question paper Marks Pass Duration
  marks
intelligence test 100 40 01 hour
consist of a questionnaire to determine the logical 
thinking, analytical thinking power and the ability 
of decision making of the candidate. 
9.2 This examination will be held in Colombo district 
and several other selected districts in february 
2021. the director General of irrigation reserves 
the authority on the final decision regarding the 
postponement or cancellation of the examination, 
filling vacancies, not filling vacancies or filling a 
certain number of vacancies and all other matters.
10. application shall be prepared by the candidate in 
compliance with specimen application form given at 
the end of this gazette notification, using both sides of 
the paper of size A4 (21cmx29cm). Applications shall 
be prepared as such that heads from 1.0 to 4.0 shall 
appear in the first page, heads from 5.0 to 7.0 in the 
second page and the rest shall appear in the third page 
and relevant information shall be filled in candidate’s 
own hand writing. applications that do not comply 
with the specimen application form and that consist 
of incomplete information shall be rejected without 
notice.it would be useful for the candidate to keep a 
photocopy of the completed application form. further, 
when preparing the specimen application form, the 
name of the examination mentioned in the heading of 
the application form must be indicated in English in 
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala medium applications and 
in addition to tamil in tamil medium applications.
(a) When sending the applications, the 
words “Recruitment for the post of Store 
keeper-2021” shall be mentioned in the top 
left hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed.
(b) Receipt of the application will not be notified. 
complaints regarding applications or other 
related document lost or delayed in the post 
will not be entertained.
(c) applications that do not comply with the 
relevant specimen form, that are incomplete 
and that are late shall be rejected without 
notice. 
(d) applicants who are in Public Service/ 
Provincial Public Service shall send their 
applications through the head of the 
department on or before the prescribed date. 
11. Sending the applications:
applications completed in the language medium in 
which the applicant intend to sit for the examination 
shall be sent by registered post to reach the below 
address on or before 11.01.2021.
director General of irrigation, 
irrigation department, 
P. o box 230,
bauddhaloka mawatha, 
colombo 07
12. Sitting for the examination :
 admission cards for the examination shall be posted 
so as to receive a week before the examination. No 
candidates will be allowed to sit for the examination 

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
46
without an admission card. candidates who sit for 
the examination shall produce their admission card in 
which their signature is attested to the supervisor. 
13. Identity of the candidate :
a candidate shall be required to prove his identity at 
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor 
with regarding teach subject. for this purpose, any of 
the below documents will be accepted.
(a) National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons
(b) a  valid passport
14. the signature applicant shall be attested by a Principal 
of a Government school Justice of Peace/commissioner 
for Oaths/ Notary Public/ Officer holding a post of staff 
grade in Public Service.
15. applicants are subjected to all the rules and regulations 
imposed regarding the examinations. he/she shall be 
liable to be subjected to punishments for the violations 
of the said rules and regulations. 
16. if any inconstancy between Sinhala, tamil and English 
texts of this Gazette  Notification occurs, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 Eng
. k. d. nihaL Siriwardana,
 director General of irrigation.
irrigation department,
colombo 07,
On 9th December 2020.
 (For Office use only)
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN
The Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the post of Store keeper (Grade III) in 
the Irrigation Department-2021
Language medium of the examination:
Sinhala  - 1 
tamil - 2
1.0 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials: .........................
(in English capital letters)    (PERERa a. b. c.)         
 1.2 Name of the applicant with initials: .........................
(in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.3 Names denoted by initials: ......................................
(in English capital letters)
 1.4 Names denoted by initials:  .....................................
(in Sinhala/tamil)
 1.5 National identity card Number:
 
 1.6 Sex:  
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  female  1 
  male     2 
2.0 2.1 Permanent address:  ................................................
(in English capital letters)
 2.2 Permanent address:  ................................................
(in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 address to which admission cards should be sent:
 (i) in Sinhala/t amil:..........................................
 (ii) in English capitals:........................................
 2.4 t elephone Number:  ................................................
.
3.0  Residence :
 3.1  district of residence: 
 3.2  divisional Secretary’s division: ..............................
4.0 4.1 marital Status: 
  married - 2           unmarried - 1 
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 4.2 date of birth :
  y ear :                         month :             date :
 4.3 age as at the closing date of applications :
  y ears:                months  :                 days  :
 4.4 are you Sri Lankan by birth or by registration? :
   .................................................................................

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
47
5.0  Educational Qualifications :
 5.1  G.c.E (o/L) Examination:
 i. y ear and month of the Examination:
  y ear: …………….. month: ………………
 ii. index Number: …………………………
 iii. Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 5.1  G.c.E (a/L) Examination:
 i. y ear and month of the Examination:
  y ear: …………….. month: ………………
 ii. index Number: …………………………
 iii. Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
6.0 have you ever been convicted by a court of Law for 
an offense? 
 (Indicate (√) in the relevant cage)            
   y es   No
 if yes, provide the particulars on which court, the 
offense and the penalty imposed.
7.0 declaration of the applicant :
(a) i do hereby respectfully declare that the particulars 
furnished by me in this application are true and 
correct to the best of my knowledge. i agree to 
bear any loss incurred due to not completing some 
sections of the application and/or completing 
incorrectly. further, i declare that all the sections 
of this application are completed correctly.
(b) further, i agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed on conducting the examination 
and i agree to accept a decision taken to dismiss my 
candidature for the examination if it is found out 
that i am unqualified under these conditions prior 
to the examination or after the examination. 
(c) i am also aware that if this declaration made ........
........................... is found to be false i am liable to 
disqualified for the appointment.
(d) i will not change any of the information furnished 
here.
 .................................,  
 Signature of the applicant.
date :............................
     
8.0 attestation of the Signature of the candidate:
i do hereby certify that the mr./mrs./miss....................... 
who submits this application is known to me personally, 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on.................………… 
 .................................,
 Signature of the Attester and the official seal.
Name of the Attesting officer :........................
designation :........................
date :........................
9.0 Certification of the Head of the Department :
      (only for the applicants who are currently in Public  
 Service) :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ...............................
who has furnished above particulars is serving in the post 
of ...................... in the .............................. Service, that the 
particulars furnished by him/her is correct and he/she can 
be released from the service at this institution once he/she is 
selected for this post. 
 ……………………………,
 Signature of the departmental/
 Institutional Head and the official seal.
date :........................
12–370

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
48
mINISTRy Of IRRIGATION 
Irrigation Department
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR ThE RECRuITmENT TO ThE POSTS Of SRI LANkA 
TEChNOLOGICAL SERvICE AT ThE IRRIGATION DEPARTmENT–2020
1. aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination to be held 
to fill the following vacancies in Sri Lanka Technological Service at the Irrigation Department.
1.1 Posts expected to be recruited :
Serial No. Designation Number of 
vacancies
Grade to be recruited
1 draughtsman 72 training grade  (for a training of one year)
2 drilling assistant 02
training grade
(for a training of two years)
3 Research assistant(General) 01
4 civil Engineering material Surveyor 11
5 Soil cartographer 01
6 hydrological assistant 05
7 hydrological field assistant 02
8 Research assistant (Engineering materials) 02
9 Soil Surveyor 05
10 Research assistant (hydraulics) 02
11 mechanical foreman 08 Recruited to grade iii. after recruiting, an in-
service training will be given at a workstation 
of the Irrigation Department for first 06 
months.
1.2 Nature of the duties of posts
Serial 
No.
Designation Assigned duties
1 draughtsman 1. Preparation of/ checking detailed plans from designed sketches, basic parameters and 
drafts given by the Engineering staff: Preparation of /checking plans, contour maps, 
longitudinal sections and cross sections from land surveying and levelling: Preparation 
of/ checking blocking-out plans, plans of land acquisition, plans of operation and 
maintenance etc. of irrigation projects
2. calculation of quantities: Rate analysis: Preparation of/checking bills of quantities
3. checking work estimates, Preparation of/checking forms, schedules, according to work 
estimates related to procurements: Checking measurement books, payment bills, final 
payment records and plans related to payments for work.
4. maintenance of technical data, reports of operations of irrigation projects. Preparation 
of/ checking progress reports
5. Custodianship and maintenance of plans, structural drawings, other drawing office 
documents, materials and instruments. 
any other duties related to draughtsmanship assigned by the executive/ management. 

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
49
Serial 
No.
Designation Assigned duties
2 drilling 
assistant
• Testing the strength of ground, ground water leakage  etc for major and medium scale 
constructions
• Collecting rock and soil samples from soil layers of different soil depth levels for 
foundations of major constructions
• Taking measures to prevent leakage in rock layers and strengthening those.
• Strengthening of completed constructions by injecting cement and chemicals, surface 
concrete lining by machines, taking measures for water leakages and other shortcomings. 
• Submission of reports related to above tasks.
operation, maintenance and repairing drilling machines, water pumps and other instruments 
and relevant diesel and petrol machineries required for above tasks.
3 Research 
assistant 
(General)
• Analysis for determining physical and chemical properties of soil and water samples 
required for feasibility studies of ongoing and proposed irrigational projects and other 
development projects.
• Preparation of solutions and reagents accurately. Proper handling of modern 
microelectronic, electric and electro mechanical instruments used in day-to-day analysis. 
accurate data analysis and proper maintenance of records. Processing of data obtained 
from analysis.
4 civil 
Engineering 
material 
Surveyor
• Surveying of engineering materials required for constructions of irrigation projects 
of irrigation department, quality controlling of the engineering materials (about the 
properties and strengths of soil and concrete materials) and certifying the standards.
• Engage in engineering materials research activities for constructions carried out on the 
requests by government and private institutions 
5 Soil 
cartographer
• Agglomerate and compiling soil survey  and soil usage maps
• Drawing and coloring maps using data given
• Preparing final soil map from the draft soil map
• Preparation of land classified, soil and land use map using aerial photographs and 
engineering surveys, coloring of maps and calculation of areas, scaled up and scaled 
down maps: Drawing geographic plans for various soil profiles, Preparations of graphs 
and drawing for reports given. Preparation of necessary things for printing of color maps.
• Preparing soil maps using computer software
6 hydrological 
assistant
By applying scientific theories practically,calculation and analysis of hydrological and 
climatological data collected based on river basins and reservoirs islandwide Sri Lanka for 
hydrological requirements. computerization of data, and analysis of data using computers.
Preparation and maintenance of daily, monthly, annual and long term reports.Preparation of 
said information for public and related institutions.
• Assure the accuracy and supervise the quality of collected  hydrological  and 
climatological data and maintaining the certified data bank.
• Collecting and computerizing data to predict increasing of the water levels in rivers and 
studying the flood-prone areas using new mathematical models
• Surveyingand mapping the flood damage levels and flood-prone areas through field 
investigations.
• Collection of data frequently and giving warnings accordingly during a flood situation or 
when getting close to a flood situation in major rivers.

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
50
Serial 
No.
Designation Assigned duties
7 hydrological-
field assistant
Maintaining hydrological unit office in selected river valleys by the hydrology section and 
collecting required weather data, rainfall, river water levels and changes in the water level of 
nearby tanks
• Submitting all the collected hydrological and weather data to the Head Office at the end 
of each month in order to check and record. 
• Measuring the discharges of rivers and tributaries at such water levels.
Continuously sending the field data required for early warning at times of a flood situation or 
when getting close to a flood situation in major rivers to the Head Office, keeping records of 
the changing flood levels with time at times of major flooding.
8 Research 
assistant 
(Engineering 
materials)
Carrying out research according to given specifications on the suitability of engineering 
materials required for the constructions of irrigation projects at the irrigation department and 
certifying standards based on research findings:
Engaging in quality control of engineering materials (characteristics and strengths of soil and 
concretes)upon the requirement of the service.
carrying out research on engineering materials and certifying the standards for the constructions 
carried out on the requests of government and private institutions
9 Soil surveyor 1. Obtaining field data and other data required for soil surveys and land use survey scarried 
out by land use division for ongoing and projects which are expected to be carried out 
in the future in irrigation or other development projects: classifying of each soil type 
according to the international soil classification.
2. considering factors of soil formation (climate, geography, geological facts etc.) deciding 
the location and the distribution of each soil category or series.
3. Obtaining soil samples as required, to prepare a detailed description of soil profiles 
according to the international standards. handing over the said soil samples to the 
laboratory for analysis. Confirming the accuracy of final soil map based on those 
analytical data and field observations and preparing the soil key.
4. analyzing the aerial photographs using aerial photography stereoscope of the related 
areas
5. Obtaining field data by soil surveys according to the required intensity of data, identifying 
soil types according to the soil profiles.
6. Preparing draft soil map based on observation data obtained at the field and adjusting to 
the required scale using the pantograph machine.
7. Preparing land use maps using data obtained at the field and internet
8. obtaining data from GPS (Global Positioning System)instruments
9.  Obtaining data on the water conductivity of soil
10. Administration (supervision) of field laborers, watchman and drivers at the field and 
directly carrying out their financial duties
10 Research 
assistant 
(hydraulic lab)
Assisting the Engineers in hydraulics lab, control of labor material & instruments in field 
constructions relevant to hydraulics lab. operation of hydraulics model. maintenance of 
buildings and other infrastructure facilities, preparation of estimates and plans for construction 
in hydraulics division, involving in repairing of all electrical and mechanical instruments 
relevant to the department, preparation of specifications for purchasing of instruments and 
supporting for preparing conformity certificates.

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
51
Serial 
No.
Designation Assigned duties
11 mechanical 
foreman
assisting the mechanical Engineer in administrating the minor staff and preparing the receipts 
for vehicles, machines etc. initiating duties with the technical assistant (mechanical) or 
Work’s clerk,taking over the items brought for repairs in the absence of the store keeper, 
obtaining the spare parts, tools and materials required for repairing, maintaining stock books,  
assisting the mechanical Engineer in preparing estimates, Returning properly after the repairs 
and returning the damaged spare parts  and goods to the stores,Entering the log note on the done 
repairs, Preparing total cost (bills) with the technical assistant (mechanical) or cost clerk. 
Submitting the materials report for used spare parts, fuel and lubricants and other materials.
taking over machineries and vehicles brought for repairs from the Store keeper to the 
mechanical workshops and returning to the store keeper after repairing. 
2. method of recruitment :
2.1 based on the results of a written competitive examination to be held by an institute approved by the 
Director General of Irrigation, qualified persons will be selected by subjecting a number of applicants 
equivalent to the number of vacancies to a general interview according to merit order of passed applicants. 
2.2 The general interview is solely for checking the certificates and physical fitness of the applicant and not 
for allocating marks.  
3. Salary scale.– Training grade- As per the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016, for the first year of 
training, a monthly allowances of Rs. 27,140/= and for the second year of training, a monthly allowance of Rs. 27,440/= 
are entitled. 
Grade iii-as per the schedule i of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016, the monthly salary attached to 
this post is Rs. 31040/= - 10x445 - 11x 660 – 10x 730– 10 x 750- Rs.57550/= (mN3- 2016) as per the schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016. 
4. Service category- Supervision management assistant technical
4.1 Grades- Grade iii
  Grade ii
  Grade i
4.2 Nature of the post- Permanent and Pensionable. you are shall be subjected to the policy decisions taken 
by the government with regard to the pension scheme you are entitled to, in future.
5. Conditions for engagement in service and service conditions
5.1 applicants those who were taken into the training Grade, will be recruited to the Grade iii upon the 
submission of the certificate issued stating the passing of the examination conducted by the Director 
General of irrigation at the successful completion of the training period.
5.2 apprentices if any who are unable to pass the examination to be held at the end of the training, are given 
the opportunity to extend their training period for not more than 06 months. the service of applicant those 
who are unable to pass the examination to be held again at the end of the extended training period, will be 
terminated.
5.3 The appointment to the Grade III is subjected to a probationary period of three years. First Efficiency Bar 
examination should be passed within 3 years from the date of recruitment to Grade iii.
5.4 According to the Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020, the required proficiency in the other relevant 
official language shall be obtained within 03 years from the date of recruitment to the post. 

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
52
5.5 this appointment is subjected to the Procedural Rules of Public Services commission, the Establishment 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations and other departmental 
orders. 
5.6 Selected applicants shall have the ability to serve in the work stations of the irrigation field, located in rural 
areas of the island.
6. Age limit- age shall not be less than 18 and not more than 30 years as at the closing date of applications.
7. Required Qualifications :
7.1 Educational Qualifications
(a) Shall have passed the G.c.E (ordinary Level) Examination in 6 subjects including credit passes for 
Sinhala/tamil/English Language, Science, mathematics and one other subject within one sitting.
 and
(b) for the posts of draughtsman, drilling assistant, civil Engineering material Surveyor, Soil 
cartographer, hydrological assistant, hydrological field assistant, Research assistant (Engineering 
material), Research assistant (hydraulics), mechanical foreman,
 Shall have passed the G.c.E (advanced Level) Examination in 3 science subjects including 
appliedmathematics/Pure mathematics/combined mathematics and Physics within one sitting.
(c) for the posts of Research assistant (General) and Soil Surveyor
 Shall have passed the G.c.E (advanced Level) Examination in 3 science subjects including 
chemistry, physics and one other science or mathematics subject within one sitting
7.2 Vocational Qualifications
 For posts of Draughtsman and Mechanical Foreman, should possess the following trade qualifications in 
addition to educational qualifications mentioned in above 7.1.
 Draughtsman 
 The relevant certificate issued by a technical college recognized by the Commission of Tertiary and 
V ocational Education shall be obtained at the successful completion of one year full time training course 
of draughtsmanship. 
 mechanical foreman
 i. National diploma in technology offered by the university of moratuwa or hardy advanced 
technological institute, ampara
  or
 ii. National diploma in Engineering Sciences offered by the National apprentice and industrial 
training authority 
  or
 iii. higher National diploma in Engineering Sciences offered by the ministry of higher Education
  or
 iV . diploma in technology offered  by the open university of Sri Lanka
  or
 V . Successful  completion of part i of the Examination in Engineering conducted by the institute of 
Engineers, Sri Lanka
  or
 VI. Shall have completed the level 06 of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) in related to the 
field of job
  or

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
53
 VII. Shall have obtained other technical qualification in technology recognized by the Commission of 
Tertiary and V ocational Education as equal to above technical qualifications in all aspects after 
consulting the Ministry of Higher Education and above certificate awarding institutions. 
7.3 Physical fitness
 Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the post and to serve in any 
part of Sri Lanka.
7.4 Other qualifications
1. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
2. Shall be of excellent moral character
3. any personnel who hold a priesthood of any religion shall not be eligible to sit for this examination.
4. Qualifications required for appearing for the examination are accepted only if the applicant has 
completed all the relevant qualifications and the specified age limit by the date mentioned in the 
notification for calling the applications.
8. furnishing false information.– if any information mentioned in the application sent by you is found to be false 
or incorrect prior to the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such information is revealed after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to dismiss you from service, subject to relevant actions. 
9. Procedure of Examination.– Examination is a written test consisting two subjects. the examination shall be 
held in Sinhala and tamil media and the medium applied for cannot be changed subsequently.
Question paper/Subject area Time Total marks Pass Mark
intelligence test 1 hour 100 40
Subject related technical test 3 hours 100 40
9.1 Syllabus for the examination
 1. intelligence test
Name of the Question paper Syllabus
intelligence test consists of questions to judge the logical and analytical thinking 
and decision making ability of the candidate
 2. Subject related technical test
• For the post of Draughtsman
Name of the question paper Syllabus
Subject related technical test calculating the quantities for given structures and assessing 
the knowledge on the quality of construction materials: 
drawing a cross section and the front and rear views of an 
object according to the given notes using drawing principles.
• For the posts of Civil Engineering Material Surveyor/ Drilling Assistant/ Research Assistant 
(Engineering materials)/ Research assistant (hydraulics)/Soil cartographer
Name of the question paper Syllabus
Subject related technical test the question paper is set to assess the knowledge in subjects 
such as algebra,Geometry, trigonometry , fluids and physical 
properties of fluids, Hydrostatics, Measuring units, Reading 
scaled maps, Scientific calculation

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
54
• For the posts of Soil Surveyor/ Research Assistant (general)
Name of the question paper Syllabus
Subject related technical test Part i (Physics)
a. Light
b. heat
c. mechanics of machines
d. Electricity and magnetism 
Part ii (chemistry)
a. organic chemistry
b. Quantitative and Qualitative analysis
c. inorganic chemistry
d. General chemistry
• For the posts of hydrological field assistant/ hydrological assistant
Name of the question 
paper
Syllabus
Subject related technical 
test
this questions paper consists of questions to assess the knowledge 
on subjects such as coordinateGeometry, dynamics, Statics, 
trigonometry, fluid mechanics, Statistics, mechanics, Light 
(Laws of refraction and reflection), Heat, Humidity, Electricity and 
Electronics
• For the post of Mechanical Foreman
Name of the question 
paper
Syllabus
Subject related 
technical test
the question paper is set to assess the knowledge in Physics, mechanics, 
applied mathematics and   drawing a cross section or a front or rear 
view of a machine or a part of a machine according to a  given diagram 
using drawing principles: 
9.2 This examination will be held in Colombo district and several other selected districts in February 2021. 
The final decision regarding the postponement or cancellation of the examination is rested with the 
director General of irrigation.
10. Preparation and Submission of the application
10.1 The application shall be prepared by candidates themselves on paper sized 21x29 cm (A4) using both 
sides. application should be prepared as such that topics from 1.0- 6.0 to appear on page 01, from 7.0-11.0 
on the page 02, from 12.0-15.0 on page 03 and the topic 16.0 on page 04. 
10.2 applicants who are already in Public Service or Provincial Public Service shall send their applications 
through the heads of their departments and applicants who are serving in state cooperation,local 
government institutions etc. shall send their applications through the heads of their institutes, on or before 
the specified date.
10.3 applications shall be prepared in the medium you are appearing for the examination.
10.4 applications that do not comply with the specimen application and are not completed in every aspect will 
be rejected without any notice.
10.5 Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. a complain regarding applications lost in the post will 
not be entertained.

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
55
10.6 Issuance of an admission card to sit for the examination does not mean that the candidate has fulfilled the 
requirements for the post.
10.7 according  to  the post you are applying for, the words “Recruitment to the post of ………………………. 
of Sri Lanka technical Service at the irrigation department” shall be clearly mentioned on the top left 
corner of envelope. 
10.8 the signature of an applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government school, Justice of Peace, 
Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed forces, an Officer holding a 
gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent position in a tertiary or senior level 
in Public Service as per the grading of Public administration circular No. 06/2006.
10.9 Final decision on filling vacancies, not filling vacancies or filling some of the vacancies and all other 
particulars is reserved by the director General of irrigation.
11. Sending the application: completed application form should be sent by registered post to reach the following 
address on or before 10
th January 2021.
director General of irrigation
irrigation department
230, bauddhaloka mawatha,
colombo 07.
12. Sitting for the examination : a candidate shall produce his/her admission card to the supervisor. candidates 
who are unable to produce the admission card shall not be allowed to sit for the examination. a candidate shall sit for the 
examination in the same hall he/she is assigned to. 
13. Identity of the candidate : a  candidate shall be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the following documents shall be accepted. 
 (a) National identity card issued by the department of Registrations of Persons
 (b) a valid Passport 
14. If there is any inconsistency among the Sinhala Tamil and English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala 
text will prevail.
 Eng. k. d. 
nihaL Siriwardana, 
 director General of irrigation. 
irrigation department, 
colombo 07,
on 04th december, 2020.
Specimen Application
OPeN COMPeTITIVe exAMINATION FOR THe ReCRUITMeNT TO THe POSTS VACANT IN SRI LANKA 
TeCHNOLOGICAL SeRVICe AT THe IRRIGATION DeP ARTMeNT–2020
(For office use only)
1.0 Language medium of examination:
 Sinhala - 1
 t amil  - 2
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
56
2.0 Post applied for: ………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (Separate applications should be sent for each post)
3.0   3.1 Name with initials (initials at the end) : (mr/mrs/miss)
    in Sinhala /t amil :………………………………………………………………………………………………
    in English (in capitals): …………………………………………………………………………………...……
    (e.g PERERa, a. b. c.)
   3.2 Name in full:
    in Sinhala/t amil:  .................................................................................................................................................. 
   ...............................................................................................................................................................................
    in English (in capitals):  ........................................................................................................................................ 
   ...............................................................................................................................................................................
4.0 National identity card No. : 
5.0 Sex (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 male   -  m
 female - f
6.0   6.1 Permanent address (legibly):
    in Sinhala/t amil:  .................................................................................................................................................
    in English (in capitals):  ........................................................................................................................................  
 6.2  address to which the admission card should be sent:
    in Sinhala/ tamil: .................................................................................................................................................
    in English (in capitals):  .......................................................................................................................................
7.0 t elephone No:  fixed    : …………………………………… mobile: …………………………………………
8.0 Residence: 
   8.1 district:  ................................................................................................................................................................. 
 8.2 divisional Secretary’s division:  ..........................................................................................................................
9.0 Marital status :
 unmarried   - 1                       married -  2
10.0   10.1 date of birth:     date:                          month:                              year : 
   10.2  age as at closing date (10/01/2021) of applications:
    y ears:                            months :                           days:
11.0 Educational Qualifications :
   11.1 Particulars of G.c.E. (ordinary Level) examination:
   i. y ear and the month of the examination :..........................
   ii. admission No. :..........................
   iii. Results:
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
57
   11.2 Particulars of G.c.E. (advanced Level) examination:
   i. y ear and the month of the examination :..........................
   ii. admission No. :..........................
   iii. Results:
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
12.0 V ocational Qualifications:
Studied course Awarding Institute Duration Certificate number and effective date
13.0 have you ever been the convict for any complain at a court?
 (mark the relevant cage with “x”)
     yes                                  No  
   13.1 mention details if ‘yes’ : .......................................................................................................................................
14.0 declaration of the applicant :
i ............................................................. hereby certify that all the particulars given here are true and correct and 
also certify that I have not been expelled from public service or not compelled to retire on inefficiency as sympathetic 
alternative or treated as giving vacated the post. i am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection and dismissed from service without any compensation if it is found 
after selection. Further I agree to serve at worksites in the field of irrigation in any part of Sri Lanka if I am appointed to 
this post.
  ………………………………………,
  Signature of the applicant.
date: …………… 
15.0 attestation of the applicant’s signature :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss  …………………………………………………………………………………
………… who submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed his signature under the above Para 
14 in my presence on ……………………………………… 
 …………………………………………………,
 Signature of officer attesting the signature.
date: ……………………………………
Name of the officer attesting the signature: ………………………………
designation: ……………………………………………………………….
address: …………………………………………………………………….
(Certify by placing the official seal)

<!-- page 58 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'12'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2020
58
16.0 Certificate of the head of the department
 (only for the applicants who are in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service)
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss …………………………………………………… who is submitting this 
application is serving in this department as  …………………………………………… and the information he/she has given 
above is correct. further, he/she can/cannot be released from the service if he/she is selected for this post.
 ………………………………………, 
 Signature of the head of the department and 
 the official seal.
date: …………………………
12–371
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.