

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1805$9 - 2013 wfm%a,a ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2013'04'09
No. 1805/9 - TUESDAY , APRIL  09,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Western  Province  Provincial  Road  Development  Authority
(Amendment)  Statute No.......  of  2013
A statute to amend the Western Province Provincial Road Development Authority Statute No. 04 of 1989.
Be it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :—
01. This statute may be cited as the Western Province Provincial Road Development Authority
(Amendment) Statute No. ....... of 2013 and the shall come into operation on such date as the Governor may
approve ;
2. The last word referred to as an “act” in the preamble of the Statute of the Western Province
Provincial Road Development Authority Statute No. 4 of 1989 (herein after referred to as the Principal
Statute) as been amended as a “Statute” in the Statute ;
03. Sub-section 4(b) of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the deletion of the said Sub-
section and the insertion of the following Sub-section :
4(b) subject to the Provision of the Statute, the Provincial Minister may  make rules for the
procedure in regard to the meeting and/or meetings of the Provincial Authority.
04. The Section 7 of the Principal Stutute is hereby amended by the deletion of the said Section
and the insertion of the following Section.
Subject to the Provision of Sub-section 7(1) 5 within any development area shall be
(a) To prepare Road Development plan in such areas and Road Development ;
(b) To prepare integrated Road Development Plans and implement related programs of the
road Development and services in such areas ;
Short title and
date of
operation.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Amendment of
the preamble of
the principal
Statute.
Amendment of
Sub-section 4(b)
in the Principal
Statute.
Replacement of
the Section 7 of
the principal
Statute.
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINAIAL  COUNCIL

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'09
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2013
2A
(c) To formulate Road Developm ent Plan in  including capital investment plans and
implementation of such plan  ;
(d) To enter into, perform and carry-out all contracts and agreement as may be necessary for
the purpose of carrying-out any Road Development Project ;
(e) To enter in to, perform and carryout joint venture, all such contract or agreement may be
necessary for carrying out any Road Development Project ;
(f) To undertake the completion of any Road Development Project or scheme in default of
any person or institution failing to complete such Project or Scheme ;
(g) To acquire, purchase or hold any moveable or immoveable property or dispose or give on
a lease any moveable or immoveable property acquired or purchased or held by it ;
(h) To prepare at the request of any institution, Road Development and Planning Schemes on
behalf of such institution and to cordinate or assist in the  execution of such Projects or
Schemes ;
(i) To provide Road Planning services for the benefits of any institution or person ;
(j) To charge a price or a fee for any services provided by the Provincial Authority ;
(k) To accept gift, grant donations and/or subsidies in cash and or otherwise ;
(l) To permit any of utility service providers for using a road reservation and charge rental for
such work and enter into any agreement that may be necessary for the purpose of any
such work ;
(m) To allow any person or organization to display notice and banners or to fix gantries and
hoardings or for erecting any temporary structure for any business in a road reservation
and to charge rental from such person or organization for this purpose and to enter into
any agreement that  may be necessary ;
(n) To do all such act or things as are incidental to or consequential upon the exercise,
Performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Statute.
7 (2) ( a) To prepare at the request of any institution, Road Development Project and/or
Projects for other construction or Schemes within or outside the Development Area,
on behalf of such institution and/or provide engineering construction services as
required and/or implement such Projects or Schemes ;
(b) To acquire, purchase and hold any movable or immovable property or dispose of or
give on a lease any moveable or immovable property acquired or purchased or held
by it, as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying out act or thing as stated in
paragraph (a) above ;
(c) To enter in to, perform and carry out any contracts or agreements as may be necessary
for the purpose of carrying out any act or thing as stated in paragraph (a) above ;
(d) To enter into, perform or carrying out joint venture, all such agreement as may be
necessary for the purpose of carrying out any act or thing as stated in paragraph (a)
above ;

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2013
(e) to set up branch Offices appoint the staff and employees on contact, adhoc,
temporary or assignment basis and to dismiss, determine the terms and conditions
of services, to fix the wages or salary and other remuneration and to exercise
disciplinary control, as may be necessary for the purpose of performing any act or
thing as stated in paragraph (a) above,
the powers, duties and functions of the Authority.
7 (3) ( a) Disposal of immoveable property should be carried out, subject to the approval of
the board of ministers of the Provincial Council as stated in paragraph 7(1)(g) and
7(2)(B) ;
(b) When immovable property is given on lease, Road Reservation should not be
included in the said lease as stated in paragraph 7(1)(g) and 7 (2)(b).
7 (4) when enter into joint venture, prior approval of the Provincial Minister should be obtain
for this purpose, as stated in paragraph 7(1)(e) and the 7(2)(d) ;
7 (5) in the exercise, performance and discharge of it powers, duties and functions under the
Sub-section ;
(i) It shall be the duty of the Provincial Authority When formulating or implementing any
program of  development work relating to the Road Planning or Road Development
within any Development Area to do so in consultation with any institution or
organization, as the case may be, whose rights, interest of functions may be affected
by the proposed work ;
7 (6) In the exercise performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under Sub-
section (1) it shall be the duty of the Provincial Authority when foumulating any program
of the Development Work relating to Road Planning Road Development within any
Development Area, of any Local Authority falls within overlap the Development Area, to
invite the Mayor or Chairman of such Local Authority and an Officer of that Local Authority
nominated by the Mayor or Chairman, as the case may be, to be present and participate in
the meeting or meetings of the Provincial Authority in relation to said programs of the
Development work.
05. In subsection 7(1) under the paragraph (1) and (m) , the Provincial Minister may make rules in
the respect of discharge of powers.
06. The Section 13 of the Principal Statute is hereby amended by the deletion of the said section
and the insertion of the following Section.
13(1) The Authority may subject to the Provision of Sub-setion (2) and the written consent of the
Provincial Minister, borrow or raise such sums as the Authority may acquire for meeting its obligation in
the discharge of it duties under the this Statute :—
(a) By way of temporary overdraft or otherwise ; or
(b) By the issue of debentures and bond or seller’s credit.
(2) the aggregate of the amounts outstanding in respect of any loan or fund raised by the Authority
under Sub-section (1) shall not at any time exceed such sum as may be determined by the Provincial
Minister in consultation with the Provincial Minister of Finance.
07. Section 15 in the principal Statute is hereby amended by the deletion of the said Section and
the insertion of the following Section.
To make rules
under Section 7.
Replacement of
the Section 13 of
principal Statute.
Amendment of
Section 15 of the
principal

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'09
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.04.2013
4A
15 The Provincial Minister may make rule in respect of the management of the affairs of the
Provincial Authority and all or any of the matter for which rules are authorized or required by this Statute
to be made.
08. Immediately after the interpretation of “National Highways” in the interpretation Section of
the principal Statute, the said interpretation Section is here by amended by insertion of the following
interpretation :
“Institution” means, a Ministry, Department, Corporation, Authority, Board, and Provincial
Council, in the Government, Provincial Ministry, Department, Corporation, or Local
Government Institution ;
“Person” means, a legal person, partnership or natural person ;
“Utility Service Provider” means, water, electricity and other communication services.
04 - 699
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.