

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'06'15
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
131
131
wxl 1"763 - 2012 cqks 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'06'15
No. 1,763 – FRIDAY ,  JUNE  15, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Land Settlement :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Notices under Land Development Ordinance ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 132
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  22nd    June, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  08th
June, 2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
N. B.— Part  I -III of the Gazette No. 1762 of 08.06.2012 was not  Published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'06'15
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.06.2012
132
Land Commissioner General’s  No. : 4/10/36465.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.:  PLC/3031661.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that  the Board of Trustees of Shri Nandani
Dasa Sil Matha Monashy has requested on  long term lease a state
land containing in extent about  0.202 Hec. out of extent marked Lot
No. 71 as depicted in  the plan No. P. P. lE. 3030  and  situated in
the Village of  No. 02 Colony Panakawa  which belongs to the
Grama Niladhari Division of 74 D, Panakawa coming within the
Area of Authority of Galigamuwa   Divisional Secretariat in the
District of Kegalle.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Lot No. 74 and 70 ;
On the East by : Lot No. 69  ;
On the  South by : Lot No. 69, 80 and 71 ;
On the West by : Lot No. 72 and 74.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Term  of the Lease .– Thirty  (30) Years  ( From  the date
approved by the Hon. Minister);
The Annual amount of the Lease.– 1/2% of the undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief Valuer.
(b) The land must not be used for any purpose other than a
religions Purpose;
(b) (i) The  lessees must, within  the commencement of the
lease,  construct in full the  necessary buildings for the
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Monastry on the said land, in such a manner as to  captivate
the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(ii) The lessees must porteet all trees and plantation in this
land. All trees and plantations siated in the  land must not be
destroyed or Felled for what  ever reason  withot obtaining
writen approval from the Divisional Secretary;
(d) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other
than for religious purpose reffered to in (b) above  ;
(e) The right of supervision over fund -raising for the
construction of proposed buildings is vested in the
Commissioner of Buddhist Religious Affairs;
(e) This lease must also be subject to the other special conditions
stipulated and imposed by the Divisional Secretary ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
RASADEE UBAYASIRI,
Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 No. 1200/6, Land  Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Madura", Rajamalwatta Rd,
Battaramulla,
21st May, 2012.
06-642
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.