

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
597
597
wxl 1"701 - 2011 wfm%a,a ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'04'08
No. 1,701 – FRIDAY , APRIL 08, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 600
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 604
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th April, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st  April,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,700 of 01.04.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
598
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
599
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
600
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths – Ratnapura  District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 09th May , 2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th March, 2011.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division application are called applications should be sent
Ratnapura Kiriella Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Dodampe Division and Marriages   General, District Secretariat,
  (Kandyan and General) Kuruwita   Ratnapura.
Korale.
04-351
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Births, Marriages and Deaths – Ratnapura  District
NOTICE OF CANCELLATION
CALLING for applications for the following Division which was published under the notice of calling of applications of Ratnapur a
District published by me in the sec. II(A) of part I of gazette notification bearing No. 4-57 of 01.04.2011 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka is cancelled hereby.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
601
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which
Division applications were called
Ratnapura Imbulpe Post of Births and Deaths of Imbulpe Division and Marriages (Kandyan/General)
of Kadawatha and Meda Korale Division of Ratnapura District.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar-General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
24th March, 2011.
04-352
–––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer  Vacancies
A vacany exists for Male Commissioned Officer in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the Administrative
Legal Branch as a Chief Legal Officer.
2. Applications are invited from male candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
Administrative Legal Branch  :
Chief Legal Officer – Regular/V olunteer
Attorney-at-Law with active legal practice for a period not less
than 15 years.
3. Other requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried.
(c) Age : Not more than 45 years as at 15th May,
2011
(d) Height : 5'5" and above
(e) Chest : Minimum 32"
(f) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (with or
without spectacles).
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he may not have the requisite height, provided he
possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Group
Captain or Air Commodore in keeping with his qualifications and
experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the Officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his control. he will be liable to have his commission withdrawn
and/or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with
the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every Officer
shall hold his appointment during the President's pleasure". However
an officer has no right to resign his commission unilaterally, but
under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, may be allowed
by the President to do so. The provisions of any Bond/Agreement
envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect of training and
subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11
of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from the Air Force
will be applicable under conditions specified in the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He
is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman service

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
602
will also be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and batman
allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married Officers not in occupation of married quarters will be
entitled to a rental allowance as stated in para 15(b)(16).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for Commissioned Officers in the rank
of Group Captain and Air Commodore shall be as
follows :
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
Air Commodore - Rs. 466,260 - 16 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Serivce Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,250 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after
five years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for
those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month
(Rs. 100 will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim Allowance for Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if
permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 10,609.75 per month (if
permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year
(for officer, spouse and children).
(12) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in
Messes to travel from the Mess to the hometown
once a month.
(13) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(14) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(15) Married officers permitted to live out and entitled
for tranport to travel from residence to place of
work.
(16) Rent allowance for married officers not in
occupation of a government married quarter
Group Captain and above Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 4,250
per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 15th April, 2011
under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked “Application for the post
of Chief Legal Officer” Applications received after the
closing date and not in accordance with the requirements
of this notification and not in registered post mail will
not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two responsible
persons who are personally acquainted with the
applicant ;
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
* Note .– Originals of these certificates should be
produced only if and when the applicant is called for
the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The
final selection will then be made after an interview
appointed by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid in this
respect.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
603
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he is to produce his National Identity Card
isued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate
will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment
will not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  COMMISSION  IN  THE
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER  FORCE OF  THE  SRI  LANKA AIR  FORCE IN  THE  ADMINISTRATIVE  LEGAL  BRANCH
(CHIEF  LEGAL  OFFICER)
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (as per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Post applied :–––––––––––.
5. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
6. Nearest Police Station to permanent Address :–––––––––––.
7. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
8. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
9. Height : –––––––'  –––––––––"
10. District :–––––––––––.
11. Electorate :–––––––––––.
12. G . S. Division :–––––––––––.
13. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
14. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
15. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained :
Name of School/University Type of examination Year of examination Subjects passed (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional Qualifications
Other
16. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University : (if applicable) :
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From                            To
17. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present Address
Father :
Mother :
18. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
19. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc., and s tandards/
levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
20. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :––––––– –––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
604
21. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
22. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :–––––––––––.
23. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
24. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank, Nation al
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :––––––.
25. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
26. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates wh o are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
04–279
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES
National Institute of Social Development
BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK DEGREE
PROGRAMME – 2011
THE National Institute of Social Development (NISD) the
educational Arm of the Ministry of Social Services conducts the
Bachelor of Social Work Degree Programme.
The medium of instruction is English.
The NISD is recognized by the University Grants Commission
as a Degree Awarding Institute under section 25A of the University
Act, No. 16 of 1978.
Applications are called from eligible candidates for the Bachelors
Degree Programme in Social Work. The minimum requirements for
University Admissions based on the Z-score obtained at the
G. C. E. A/L Examination of 2010 shall be the main eligibility
criterion.
In addition the performance at a Proficiency Test and a Viva
Voce conducted in English shall be used to short list the selection.
Why should you select this course ? .– There is a great demand
for professional social workers in the country with additional job
opportunities being announced by the GO, NGO and the Private
Sector regularly.
Why should you select the National Institute of Social Development
? .– National Institute of Social Development, established under
the Parliament Act, No. 41 of 1992 is the one and only higher
educational institution providing professional social work education
and training in Sri Lanka.
How to Apply ?. – Applications, duly prepared and completed
according to the format given in this advertisement should reach our
office (address given) on or before 27.04.2011 along with a money
order for Rs.500 drawn in favour of the Director General, National
Institute of Social Development and a self addressed stamped
envelope.
“The Registrar,
National Institute of Social Development,
No. 488 A, Nawala Road,
Rajagiriya,
Contact : 011-2882506 - 11
011-3119597 for details.
Write "BSW 2011" on the top left-hand corner of the envelop.
A
PPLICATION FOR THE 2011 - 2015 INTAKE
1. Full Name :––––––––––.
2. Name with Initials :––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
3. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
605
4. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
5. Contact Telephone No. :––––––––––.
6. Sex :––––––––––.
7. Date of birth :––––––––––.
8. Nationality :––––––––––.
9. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) :
Index No. :––––––––––.   Year :––––––––––.
Results :––––––––––.
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L 2010) :
Index No. :––––––––––.   Z Score :––––––––––.
Results :––––––––––.
District :––––––––––.
(iii) Highest Qualifications/Examination in English (If any)
:––––––––––.
(iv) Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
Copies of the result sheets of the GCE (O/L) and GCE (A/L)
examinations should be forwarded along with the application.
I certify that the information furnished by me is true and accurate.
I am aware that my student-ship may be cancelled if the particulars
are found to be incorrect, even after selection.
–––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
04-348/1
–––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES
National  Institute  of  Social  Development
BACHELOR OF SOCIAL WORK DEGREE
PROGRAMME - 2011
(Admission of Diploma in Social Work Certificate Holders
at the second year level of the BSW Program - 2011)
THE National Institute of Social Development hereby invites
applications from holders of the Diploma Certificate in Social work
for admission to the second year of the bachelor of social work
Degree Programme provided they meet the eligibility criteria given
below.
Eligibility to apply : A candidate should.–
(i) Have obtained the Diploma in Social Work from the Sri
Lanka School of Social Work/National Institute of Social
Development.
(ii) Have high proficiency in English to follow the course
conducted in the English medium.
(iii) Be able to study full - time for three years.
How to Apply :
1. A self prepared application in English Including Full Name,
Address, District, Contact No., Educational Qualifications,
year of the Diploma, Highest Educational Qualifications
obtained in the English Language should be forwarded to
the Registrar, National Institute of Social Development,
No. 488A, Nawala Road, Rajagiriya along with a self
addressed stamped envelope on or before 27.04.2011 ;
and
2. A money order for Rs.500 (en-cashable at the Rajagiriya
Post Office), drawn in favour of the Director General of
the National Institute of Social Development should also
be forwarded along the application with the words
“Admission to the Bachelor of Social Work Degree - Second
Year” written on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
3. A very limited number of applicants shall be selected.
For Further information please contact, 011-2882506 - 11/011-
3119597.
Registrar,
National Institute of
Social Development.
No. 488A, Nawala Road,
Rajagiriya.
04-348/2
–––––––––––––––
FIRST AND SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA
PLANNING SERVICE  - 2011
FIRST and Second efficiency bar examinations for officers in class
III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held in …July… 2011
in Town 1Colombo and Town 2. Jaffna by the commissioner General
of Examinations. Change of the town indicated in the application to
appear for the examination will not be allowed later. The closing
date of application for the Examination will be 06/05/2011. The
Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media
and no candidate will be permitted to change the medium later.
02. A specimen application form to be used in applying for this
examination is appended at the end of this notification. All applicants
are advised to prepare their applications as per specimen given.
Application should be prepared only in A4 size paper and item 01
to 04 (ii) should be on page 1 and the rest on page 2. The form
should be completed by the applicant in his / her own hand writing.
Further, Name of the Examination given at the top should be written
in English in addition to sinhala in sinhala applications and in addition
to Tamil in Tamil applications. Applications which do not conform
with the specimen application form and those received after the
closing date of applications and incomplete applications will be
rejected without prior notice.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
606
Those who wish to sit for both first and second efficiency bar
examinations should send two separate applications specifying the
examinations. Particulars given in the top of the specimen
application form and item 7 (i) or (ii) as the case may should be
mentioned accurately. Further, Two receipts obtained by marking
payments for two examinations should be affixed to both application
forms separately.
03. All applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (in the case of a Divisional Secretary) by
registered post to reach the commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, to reach him on or before
06.05.2011. The name of the examination should be written on the
top left corner of the envelop containing the application. Retaining
a copy of the application would be useful. Examination will be
conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media and no candidate will
be permitted to change the language medium applied for. New officers
for the purpose of official Language policy may prepare their
applications in the official Language or in Tamil or English in
accordance with the language medium they were recruited.
 04. An Admission card together with a copy of the time table of
the examination will be issued by the commissioner General of
Examination to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after admission cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the department of examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission card and time table 2 or 3 days
before the examination, he/ she should notify this fact in writing
immediately to the Department of examinations. It would be useful
if you could send a certified photo copy of the application retained
by you together with the receipt for the payment of cash, registration
receipt and your letter of request with the fax number, if outside
Colombo, to send your Admission Card
(i) Name of Examination :
(ii) Full name of the applicant :
(iii) Complete Address :
(iv) Post office at witch the application was posted :
Registered No. and Date :
05. Identify .– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a subject
in the Examination Hall. For this purpose one of the following
document only will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A V alid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel or reject the candidature of the
candidate who fails to produce any of the documents
mentioned.
06. Examination Fees.–  Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay examination fees on the basis set out below.
Examination Fee.
(a) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(b) For the whole examination for each subsequent sitting
Rs. 400.00
(c) Per subject Rs. 150.00
The relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examination No.
2003.02.13 at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful. Those who apply for both examinations
should affix two receipts obtained by making payments for both
examinations separately.
07. This examinations is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination. Rules and regulations published in Part 1 Sec. (IIA) of
this Gazette for applicants for examinations are applicable to this
examination. On the first day of the examination, admission card
with the applicants authenticated signature should be handed over
to the supervisor of the examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom admission cards have been issued by the commissioner General
of examinations to enable them to sit for the examination. Admission
cards will be issued to all the applicants who have submitted
applications and issuing an admission card to an applicant should
not be considered by him / her as  a qualification to sit for examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
write the discretion of the secretary to the ministry of finance and
planning.
10. Syllabuses related to the first and second efficiency bar
examinations are given below.
Syllabus of the first efficiency Bar Examination for officers in
class III of the Sri Lanka planning Service
1. The first efficiency bar examination will consist of the
following subjects.
(a) Planning concepts and Methodology, planning
Institutions - 100 marks (Sub No. 01).
(b) Economics Analysis and statistics - 100 marks (Sub
No. 02).
(c) Project planning ,implemention,Review and
evaluation - 100 marks (Sub No. 03).
(d) Establishment and Government financial Regulations
- 100 marks (Sub No. 04).
(e) English Language - 100 marks (Sub No. 05).
2. An officer can sit all papers in one attempt or separately
in several attempts.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
607
3. Each paper will be of 03 hours duration.
4. All the Questions of a  paper should be answered.
5. An applicant should obtain 40% or more marks for a
pass in each paper.
Scheme of Examination
Question paper 01.–  Planning concepts and the Methodology,
planning institutions, Finance and Administration
(i) National Goals and Priorities, and  policy framework and
programmes for their achievement.
(ii) Methodology for National planning, major problem areas
in planning, participation of the public, Mobilizations of
resources etc.
(iii) Nature and source of data for national planning and
collection of data, presentation and analyses of
interpretation, field supervision and investigations,
demographic connects, economic perspective and policy
analysis
Question paper 02. - Economic Analysis and statistics
(i) Principles of economics with special emphasis an theories
of production and distribution.
(ii) Finance, Banking systems, International monetary
systems and trade
(iii) Analysis of  Fiscal, monetary, Trade and Tariff policies
(iv) Economic structure of Sri Lanka
(v) Review of the Economy
(vi) Assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower
and  other resources including foreign aid and  their
utilization
(vii) Economics, scientific and social cases
(viii) Economic Analysis and Basic statistical concepts and
methods used in planning
(ix) Principles of benefit / cost analysis
Question paper 03.-  Project planning, implantation, Monitoring
and follow up action
(i) Planning, identification and defining projects and
formulation of projects, selection of policies, theories
and  places estimation of technology, costs and benefits,
technical, financial and economic analysis.
(ii) Implementation and supervision of projects, proper and
timely implementation of  project programmes,
preparation of detailed operational plans and
implementation schedules, monitoring and coordination
of progress, control follow up action.
(iii) Evaluation of projects, Assessment of effectiveness of
projects and programmes analysis of benefits in relation
to costs.
Question paper 04.-  Establishment regulations and Government
Financial Systems
(i) Government financial Regulations volume 1
(Excluding chapter x )
(b) Establishments  code : Chapters vii, ix, xi, xii, xv, xxiii,
xxv, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xLvii,
xLviii
Chapters I to VII in volume I of Procedural Rules of
the Public Service Commission..
(iii) Financial control of Sri Lanka :
Statutory provisions related to public management,
control of the parliament over public finance, The
consolidated fund and its function, objective of
appropriation and appropriation methods. Public revenue,
powers and functions of the minister of finance, powers
and functions of the Treasury, warrants and impress
Authority, Auditor General and his powers and functions,
public expenditure committee, public enterprises
committe.
(iv) Accounting officers, chief Accounting officers and
appointing accounting officers of public revenue, their
powers and functions.
(v) Planning and management of public expenditure
Identifying objectives and Tasks of the organizations,
Preparation of   annual revenue and estimates, and taking
final decisions. Changes in approved expenditure
estimates.implemention of Vermon procedure
management of carders in government sector,
supplementary estimates.
(vi) Government procurement procedure :
Procurement of goods, services and work, composition,
appointment, powers and functions of procurement
committee and Technical valuation committee, bids
evaluation procedure, management of projects
implemented on foreign aids.
Question paper 05.– English Language
A written test on English Language will held in order to
measure the English language skills of the applicants related
to planning, Development, Organizing and management
subjects

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
608
Syllabus of the second Efficiency Bar Examination for Grade
III officers of the Sri Lanka planning Service
1. The second efficiency bar examination will consist of
the subject mentioned below.
(a) Development planning mythologies - Marks
100  (Subject No. 06)
(b) Basic Macro Economics  - Marks 100  (Subject
No. 07)
(c)  Current International economic and political
issues and their effect on the Sri Lanka Economy
- Marks 100  (Subject No. 06)
2. Officers are allowed to sit for all the subjects in one
attempt or in several separate attempts
3. Duration for each question paper is 03 hours
4. Answering all the question of a questions paper is a
must
5. Applicant should obtain 40%  of marks for paper for a
pass grade
Scheme of Examination
(i) Development Planning Techniques
(a) SOTF  Analysis
(b) Problem Tree
(c) Logical frame Analysis
(d) Cost – benefits analysis
(e) Payback Methodology
(f) Net current Value
(g) Internal Rate of Return
(h) Usage of Shadow Prices
(ii) Fundamentals of Macro Economics
(a) National Accounts
(b) Rate of Economic Growth
(c) Equilibrium level of National Income
(d) Multiplier
(e) Inflation
(f) Interest Rate
(g) An Introduction to the public financial policies
(h) An Introduction to fiscal policies
(i) Trade Circles
(iii) Current International Economic and crisis and its effects on
the economy of Sri Lanka Economy.  Current international
Economic crisis and its effects on the economy of Sri Lanka
(Applicants will have to answer question based on tropics
in the context of the contemporary  world economic conditions
as the case may be)
P. A. A
BEYSEKARA,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
08th of April 2011.
FORM OF APPLICA TION
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA PLANNING SERVICE – 2010
(For office use)
 Town Town No.
· Town and Town Number at which the Medium of Examination Applied
candidate wishes to sit for the examination (write the number in this cage)
               Colombo - 1 Si nhala - 2            (Medium applied will not
               Jaffna - 2 T amil - 3             be allowed to change
English - 4             subsequently)
· The Efficiency Bar Examination Applied
First - 1
Second - 2   (write the number in the cage given)
Refer the para 2 of the gazette. Applications should be separately submitted for both examinations.
01. Name
 1.1 Name with Initials  at the End :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block letters e.g. SILV A . B . A.)
 1.2 Full Name (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 1.3 National Identity Card  No. :
 02. Official Address (In English Block letters) :
 2.1 Official Address (Sinhala / Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be sent  (In English Block letters) :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
609
03. Female –  1   Male    -  0   (Specify in the cage given) :
 3.1 Sex  :  Female                           Male
 3.2 Date of Birth -:
Year :                            Month :                  Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications -:
 Years :                          Months :                    Days  :
04. Subjects offered under the Para. 10 of the gazette (only  4 (I) or 4 (II) relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examination applied should be
completed in one application form)
4 (I) First Efficiency Bar 4(II) Second Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject No. Subject     Subject No.
…………………………………. ………………………………….
………………………………… ………………………………….
………………………………… ………………………………….
………………………………… ………………………………….
05. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Planning Service (Indicate the date of assumption of duties) :–––––––––––.
06. Are you an Old Entrant/New Entrant for the purposes of Official Language Policy :–––––––––––.
07. Name of the Department  :–––––––––––.
08. Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time :–––––––––––.
09. If not examination fees paid:
(Paste the receipt securely ; keeping a copy of the receipt would be useful)
10. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the langu age medium
indicated above. I agree to abide by the decisions taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Date  :––––––––––––. Signature of the applicant.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the Department, or the officer authorized to sign on his / her behalf or his
/ her Provincial Head.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss………………………………………………….who is an officer working in my office and
is known to me personally placed his/her signature before me on …………………………………
 –––––––––––––,
Name :––––––––––––. Signature of the Attestor.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
 I Certify that
(i) the foregoing particulars were checked by me and found and correct and that
(ii) the applicant is eligible to sit for this examination.
–––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department
Designation :––––––––––––. (Official frank should be placed).
Date :––––––––––––.
04–276

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
610
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  –  SRI  LANKA
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-Quaran
Schools on Islamic Studies – 2010
(Equalant to Certificate of Final Examination of
Daham Pasala)
1. RULES and Regulations.– The above examination will be held by
the Commissioner General of Examinations. The examination for
2010 will be held in the month of July, 2011. Subjects and the
syllabus for the examination are given in Annexure I.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination Centres are indicated
in Annexure II of this notification. These Centres are subjected for
cancellation if required number of candidates is not applied. In case
of such cancellation of any center the candidates will be offered the
nearest center to sit the examination.
3. Language Medium. – This examination will be conducted in
Tamil, Sinhala and English languages. However a candidate should
appear for all the subjects for one and the same language.
4. Eligibility.– Every applicant who applies for this examination
should have fulfilled at least one of the following requirements :–
4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 or Grade 11 in an
Ahadhiya School registered in the Department of Muslim
Religious and Cultural Affairs ; or
4.2 Should be a student who has completed the senior Grade
Al-Quaran Madrasa Syllabus approved by the
Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects of
Islam and Arabic in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations,
Sri Lanka.
Note :
(i) Applications for this examination should be certified
by the Principal of the Ahadhiya School or by the
Principal of the Al-Quran Madrasa or by the Principal
of School to the effect that the candidate as fulfilled
the requirements made paragraph 4 above.
(ii) An applicant can submit application for this
examination only through the principal of Ahadhiya
School, the Principal of Senior Al-Quaran Madrasa or
the Principal of the School.
5. In the event of any registered Ahadhiya School or Senior
Quran Madrasa or Schools not receiving the application forms and
instructions by post in time the Principal concerned should contact
the -
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
on or before 21st April, 2011.
5.1 All applications should be prepared in duplicate. The
original should be forwarded to the Department of
Examinations while the duplicate should be filed in the
relevant Institution.
5.2 The closing date of applications is 06th May, 2011.
5.3 Applications should be clearly and legibly filled in.
Applications which are not filled accordingly and
applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.
5.4 Duly perfected applications should be sent under
registered cover to the -
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(Applications will not be acknowledged.)
5.5 The top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing with
the application should have the name of the Examination
“Ahadiya/Quran Madrasa final Certificate Exam - 2010”
and the Centre of the choice written clearly.
5.6 No document should be annexed to the application.
The Principals of the Institutions should certify to the
effect that the applicant holds the prescribed
qualifications.
6. The Examination fee for all four subjects is Rs. 150 and the
fee for one repeated subject is Rs. 50. No Examination fee will be
charged from those who sit for this examination for the first time.
6.1Mode of payment. – Examination fees to be paid at any
post office and the receipt obtained be affixed on to the
application.
7. Admission Cards. – Commissioner General of Examinations
shall issue the Admission cards through the relevant Principal of
the Institution.
7.1 In the event of any applicant failing to produce his
Admission Card on the first day of his appearing for
the examination to the supervisor of the Examination
Hall or attempting to enter an Examinaiton Centre other
than the center allocated to him/her by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, action will be
taken to cancel his/her candidature.
7.2 The specimen signature of the candidate should be
attested by the Principal of relevant institutions or by
an officer in the permanent service drawing a salary
with less than Rs. 240,360 p. a., or Islamic Priest of
Mosque.
7.3 An Admission Card in not received at least 7 days
before the date of commencement of the examination
the Principal of the School concerned should notifiy

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
611
the Commissioner General of Examinations accordingly.
In all such instances, information should be provided
as indicated below :
(a) Name of Examination,
(b) Name of Ahadhiya School/Madrasa/School,
(c) Name of candidate in full and Address,
(d) Examination Centre applied for,
(e) Post Office from which the application was posted,
(f) Registration number and Date.
8. Establishment of the Identity.– Every applicant should establish
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on all instances
he appears for the examination.
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation of the
Result :
9.1 This examination consists of four papers and a student
obtains passes in all four papers in one and the same
sitting will be considered those having passed the
Examination.
9.2 However, if a candidate gets passed in 3 subjects and
fails to get through in the fourth subject in one and the
same sitting he/she will be allowed referral.
Such a candidate should get through that subject within
the subsequent 3 examinations to be considered passed
in this certificate examination.
9.3 Release of the Results.– Details of examination results
will be posted to the relevant Heads of Institutions.
10. Certificates.– Action will be taken to issue a certificate to
every candidate passing the examination.
11. Re-scrutiny of answer - scripts .– Opportunities will be
provided for the re-scrutiny of answer-scripts on payment of a fee
and such applications are made within 30 days from the date of
issue of examinations results through the respective Heads of
Institutions by using the form issued by this Department for this
purpose.
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any alteration
in made in the examination results. Applicants or their
representatives will not be granted permission to examine the answer
scripts for any reason what-so-ever.
12. All applicants are bound to act in accordance with the above
conditions and any matters not covered under this notification will
be decided by the Commissioner General of Examination at his
discretion.
A
NURA EDIRISINGHE,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
18th March, 2011.
ANNEXURE 1
Subjects and the Syllabus prescribed for the Examination. There
will be four question papers, each question paper will for the
duration of three hours.
F
IRST PAPER
1.Aqeedha, Shaareeah and Arabic Language (Fundamentals in Islam
and Arabic Language.)
1.1 Aqeedha - General clarifications (Al Ilahiiyath, Annubuwath,
Arroohaniyyath and Assamiyyath)
1.2 Sections of Aqeedha
* Ahlussunnah Wel Jamath Aqeeda
* Several other sections : Jabariya Kadariyya, Murjiya,
Mutazila and Sheeah
1.3 Tawheedh and Shirk
* Iman and Kufr
* Riddath, Nifak
* History of Wahi
* Utilization of Al-Quaran as a legal principle
* Sunna and it's collection
* Utilization of Sunna as legal principle
* History of Hadees and the contribution of Muhaddis
* Details relating to Ijthihad
* Ijma as a support principle
* Kiyas a support principle
* History of Fikhu and its Imams.
1.4 Arabic Language :
* Writing with proper shaping
* Writing of Sentence
* Writing of Arabic words relating to the subject of Islam
* Writing of Quran sentence and Hathees.
2. Al-Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
2.1 Details Relating to Ibadath
* Kinds of Ibathath
2.2 Najees and its categories :
* Methods of clearing Najees
* Water and its categories
* Wulu, Thayammam - Procedures existing relating to bathing
2.3 Zakath :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Collection and distribution
* Minimizing poverty through Zakath and distribution of
wealth
2.4 Assawn (Fasting) :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Usefulness

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
612
2.5 Hajj :
x Significance
x Rules and Regulations
x Usefulness
x Hajj - Method of Performance
x Farlu, Wajibu, Sunnath
x Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj
2.6 Attention to be drawn and procedures relating to Food,
Dressings and Dwelling places in Islam.
2.7 Clarification relating to sacrifice
2.8 Kurbani and slaughtering systems
2.9 Affirmation and V ow
2.10 Details relating to Muamalath :
x Dignity of earning
x Main transactions
x Other transaction (Eg. Lease and Insurance)
x Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Waarasath (Common Property,
Testamentary Property, Inhertited Property)
2.11 Position of man and woman in Islam :
x Marriage Laws in Islam
x Family life in Islam
x Husband and wife
x Rights and duties of parents and Children
x Talaqs Illah
2.12 Jinayath :
x Hudood, Kisas and Tazeer
3. Seera and Tarigh
3.1 Socio-Religious position in Arabian Society in the period
before Islam.
3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal) :
x Life before the Nubuwwath
* Family, Generation
* Youth-hood
* Noble characteristies
* Marriage
x Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
* Nubuwwath
* Propaganda in Islam and its benefits
* Mihraj
* Hijrath
x Madina Life
* Socio-Political activities
* Self defense wars and Peace Agreement
* Last Prophethood
x Position of Sahabas and their contribution towards
Islam
x History and Political contribution of Kulap
Urrashidoon
x Period of rule by Umaiya and Abbasiya
x History of Baitul Mukaddasa
x History and contribution of Sri Lankan Muslims
x Contribution of Muslims to Modern Civilization
x History relating to the following personalities
* Imam Buhari (Rah)
* Imam Shafi (Rah)
4. Aklaq (Islamic Values)
4.1 View point of Islam in Ethics
* Details relating to Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Imam and Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Aqhalaq and Ibadath Ihals
4.2 Taqwa
* Waru and Suhud
* Murakaba, Muhasafa
* Shawq
4.3 Charity
* Dedication
* Gratitude
* Tolerance, Discipline, allowing, pardoning
* Politeness
* Time appreciation
* Moral control of organs in the body, mouth, eye, ear and
sex organs
* Respecting others
* Justice and honesty
* Important moral values visible among youth
* Integration with other communities
4.4 Islamic Jurisprudence
ANNEXURE II
Name of cities and their numbers where examination centres
will be established according to Districts :
Town Town District
No. No.
Colombo District 01
Colombo (Central) 01
Bambalapitiya 02
Gampaha District 02
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Malwana 05
Negombo 06
Kal-Eliya 07
Kalutara District 03
Panadura 08
Kalutara 09
Aluthgama 10

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
613
Galle District 04
Galle 11
Matara District 05
Weligama 12
Matara 13
Tangalle District 06
Hambantota 14
Kegalle District 07
Mawanella 15
Warakapola 16
Kannattota 17
Kurunegala District 08
Kuliyapitiya 18
Kurunegala 19
Melsiripura 20
Polgahawela 21
Kekunagolla 22
Puttalam District 09
Nuraichcholai 23
Puttalam 24
Chilaw 25
Anuradhapura District 10
Anuradhapura 26
Kekirawa 27
Galenbindunuwewa 28
Polonnaruwa District 11
Kaduruwela 29
Matale District 12
Matale 30
Kandy District 13
Kandy 31
Nawalapitiya 32
Deltota 33
Gelioya 34
Nuwara Eliya District 14
Nuwara Eliya 35
Ratnapura District 15
Eheliyagoda 36
Balangoda 37
Badulla District 16
Badulla 38
Welimada 39
Monaragala District 17
Bibila 40
Ampara District 18
Akkaraipattu 41
Pottuvil 42
Kalmunai 43
Sammanthurai 44
Irakkamam 45
Nintavur 46
Oluvil 47
Batticaloa District 19
Kattankudy 48
Eravur 49
Valachchenai 50
Trincomalee District 20
Mutur 51
Kinniya 52
Trincomalee 53
Vavuniya District 21
Vavuniya 54
Mannar District 22
Mannar 55
Mullaitivue District 23
Mullaitivu 56
Kilinochchi District 24
Kilinochchi 57
Jaffna District 25
Jaffna 58
ANNEXURE - III
Scheme of Examination (Examination to be held from 2004).
There will be four question papers, each question paper will for the
duration of three hours.
First Paper - Aqeeda, Sharia and Arabic Language
This question paper is consisting of three parts :
Part I - Objective questions (20 marks)
Accurately identify the basic fundamentals of Islam and its
main elemments –
(a) Arkanul Iman
(b) Explanation to Aqeetha Ah - Kamul Imaan
(c) Al-Quaran
(d) Al-Hathees
Town Town District
No. No.
Town Town District
No. No.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
614
Answers should be given for all questions in the part.
(a) To give answers in brief - Ten Questions (10 marks)
(b) Multiple Questions - Five Questions (05 marks)
(c) Filling blanks - Five Questions (05 marks)
Part II - Less structured Questions (40 marks)
Thowheed and facts against it - To clearly describe the sub
elements.
(a) Thawuhid and its categories
(b) Policies contrary to Thawuhid
(c) Ijmau and Kiyas
(d) Ijthihad and Mujthahids
Out of the questions belonging to this part to answer two
preferred questions. There are four questions marked a, b, c and d
in every question. 20 marks (4 x 5 = 20) at the rate of 05 marks for
each question.
Part III - Essay type questions (40 marks)
Usage of Islamic Elements
(a) Al Quaran-Al Hadees - Historical background
(b) Writing Arabic words relating to Main Sura in Al-Quran
(c) The four main Madhabs and their Imams
(d) Ijthihad and other Mujthahids
Out of the questions given in this part answers may be given for
two preferred subjects. For every question answers should be given
in essay writing type to enable the assessment of knowledge, skills
and concepts. 20 marks will be given for each question.
Second Paper - Al Fikhul Islam – (Islamic Law)
This Question Paper is consisting of three parts.
Part 1 - Objective questions (40 marks)
The five duties and other routing work to be utilized as Ibadath
(a) Tharahath and Najis
(b) Arkanul Islam
(c) Other Ibadath
Answers should be given for all questions in this section
1. (a) To give short answers - Ten questions - 10 marks
(b) Multiple questions - Five questions - 05 marks
(c) Filling blanks - Five questions - 05 marks
Part II - Structured questions (40 marks)
To understand that Islam is complete way of life
(a) Ibathuth (Kalima, Sala, Zanat, Sawn and Hajj)
(b) Other Ibathathes
(c) Muamalath (Business)
(d) Munakahath (Family Life)
(e) Jinayath (Penal)
Out of the four questions in this section answers may be given
for any two subjects. Every question has been grouped as a, b, c, d,
Five marks will be given for each part of the questions (4 x 5 = 20)
Part III - Essay type questions (40 marks)
To have an understanding relating to the advantages of Farlu,
Sunnath and Ibadath and its philosophy and to act accordingly.
(a) Ibatha
(
b) Muamalath (Business)
(c) Munakahath (Family Life)
(d) Jinayath (Penal)
Out of the four questions in this section answers may be given
for to preferred questions. For every question answers should be
given an essay type structure to enable the assessment of knowledge
and concepts. Twenty marks will be given for each question.
Third Paper – Seera and Tareek
This question paper consists of three parts :
Part 1 - History of Prophet Muhammed (Sal) and other histories.
(a) Religious position during the period of Jahiliyya
(b) Life history of Holy Prophet Muhammed (Sal)
(c) Dedication of Sahabs (companians) for Islam
(d) Period of Umaiya and Abbasiya
(e) Muslim contribution towards Modern Civilization
All candidates should answer the questions in this section. This
question consists of three parts.
(a) To give short answers - 10 questions - 10 marks
(b) Multiple questions - 05 questions - 05 marks
(c) Filling of blanks - 05 questions - 05 marks
(Total marks - 20)
Part II - structured questions (40 marks)
Knowledge relating to the contribution of Holy Nabi (Sal) and
his Alikula Faur Rashidu
(a) Prophet (Sal)
(b) Madina Life of Holy Prophet (Sal)
(c) Al–Kulapaurrasidoon
(d) Contribution of Imams belonging to various fields
Out of the four questions in this part answers should be given
for any two questions. Every question has been grouped as a, b, c
and d Marks will be given at the rate of 05 mark for each part
(5x4 = 20)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.04.2011
615
Part III - Essay type Questions - 40 marks
Understand the Islamic Social . – political requirements
introduced by Holy Nabi (Sal).
(a) Life History of Holy Propher (Sal)
(b) Contribution of Al-Kulapurrasideen
(c) History of Sri Lankan Muslims
Out of the questions in this section answers should be given for
any two questions Twenty marks will be given for each question.
(Total Marks 5 x 20 = 100)
Fourth Paper - Al Aklaq (Islamic Ethics)
This Question Paper consists of three parts :
Part 1 - Structured questions - 20 marks
(a) Attention drawn in Islam for a code of Ethics
(b) Thakwa
(c) Charity
(d) Athil
Candidates should answer all four questions in this section.
20 marks will be given at the rate of five marks for each question.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Part II - Less structured questions - 40 marks
* Aklaq and Iman
* Murakaba and Warau
* Ethics related to social relationship
* Time Managements and Control of Senses
Out of the questions this section answers should be given for
two questions. Every question has been grouped as a, b, c and d.
(Five marks will be given for each part (5 x 4 = 20)
Part III - Essay related questions - 40 marks
* Promotion of human loving kindness through Islamic ethics
* Introducing favourable concepts through Ibadath
* Kindness towards living beings
* Islamic Jurisprudence
* Ethics of youth
Out of the questions in this section answers should be given
only for two questions. Forty marks will be given for both questions
at the rate of twenty marks for each question.
04–269