

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 1778$38 - 2012 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'10'05
No. 1778/38  — FRIDAY    OCTOBER  05,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
MINISTRY    OF     CIVIL   AVIATION
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka
NOTICE  BY  THE  DIRECTOR   GENERAL   OF   CIVIL  A VIATION
UNDER THE AIR NAVIGATION REGULATION 196
MEMBERS   of the public are hereby notified that I have received on 11th July 2012 an application dated 09th July 2012 from
Hybrid Aviations Com. (Pvt) Ltd., at No. 34, Main Street, Battaramulla, seeking from this office an Air Operator Certificate/
Airline License to engage in Domestic scheduled operations and charter licence to engage in domestic charter operations in
pursuance of the Air Navigation Regulations of 1955. The director of the Hybrid Aviations Company (Pvt.) Ltd is declared to
be as follows.
Mr. J. M. Wickramarachchi
Mr. T. R. S. De Karunaratne
Hybrid Aviations Company (Pvt) Ltd. has nominated Mr. Keerthi Dissanayake to be the Accountable Manager in
charge of the proposed operations of air services.
A copy of the complete Application of the aforementioned applicant is kept at the Technical Library, Ground Floor, of
Head Quarters of the Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka, No. 04, Hunupitiya Road, Colombo 02 for the perusal of the members
of the public, during office hours of any working days.
Members of the public are hereby informed that I have decided to commence after 25th October, 2012 the certification
process of this application as per the established procedures to examine the degree of applicant's compliance with the
applicable Air Navigation Regulations, International Standards and Recommended practices specified by ICAO and associ-
ated local requirements adopted by this office and ascertain their level of competence for the safe, secure, efficient operation
of proposed air services, prior to granting them the requisite Air Operator Certificate, Airline License and Charter Licence
together with other relevant approvals for the commencement of proposed operations.
Any person may, not less than 10 days before the aforementioned date in the penultimate paragraph make represen-
tations to  me in writing, setting out the specific grounds on which such representations are made in respect of this application,
in accordance with the Air Navigation Regulations, Such representations shall accompany written evidence as to the truth of
any statement contained therein. A copy of every such representation shall be sent  by the person making it to the applicant,
at the same time as it is sent to me and a certificate to that effect shall be attached to the representation.
H. M. C. N
IMALSIRI,
Director General of Civil Aviation and
Chief Executive Officer.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Government  Notifications
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka,
No. 04, Hunupitiya Road,
Colombo 02,
03rd October, 2012.
10 - 792