

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2278$23 - 2022 uehs ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'05'06
No. 2278/23 -  friDay,  may  06,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 36741 - 366 (05/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.Cf 1/64.
THE PUBLIC SECURITY ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 40)
rEGULaTiONS made by the President under section 5 of the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40).
 Gotabaya Rajapaksa,
 President.
Colombo. 
may 06, 2022.
REGULATIONS
Short title. 1. These regulations may be cited as the Emergency (miscellaneous Provisions and Powers) 
regulations, No. 1 of 2022.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
2a
                                                PART I
                                         GENERAL
interpretation. 2. (1) In any emergency regulation, unless any other definition is expressly provided therein or 
unless it is otherwise expressly provided therein or the context otherwise requires —
“attorney-General” in relation to any emergency regulation, includes the Solicitor-
General, Senior additional Solicitor- General, additional Solicitor-General, 
Senior Deputy Solicitor General, Deputy Solicitor-General, Senior State 
Counsel, State Counsel or any attorney-at-Law  authorized by the 
attorney-General in that behalf for the purpose of such regulation;
“armed forces” means the Sri Lanka army, the Sri Lanka Navy, and the Sri Lanka 
air force established respectively by the army act, (Chapter 357), the Navy 
act, (Chapter 358) and the air force act, (Chapter 359);
“competent authority” in relation to any emergency regulation means, unless 
otherwise provided for in such regulation, any person appointed by name 
or by office, by the President to be a competent authority for the purpose 
of such regulation;
“emergency regulation” means any of these regulations or any other regulation 
made under the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40);
“essential service” means any service  which is  of  public utility or essential for 
national security or preservation of public order or to the life of the 
community and includes any department of Government or branch thereof;
“inspector-General of Police” includes any Senior Deputy inspector-General and 
Deputy inspector General of Police; 
“land” includes land covered with water and parts of houses or buildings;
“police officer” means a member of any police force established under the Police 
Ordinance (Chapter 53);
 “public officer” shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution; and
“Sri Lanka” includes the territorial waters and territorial air space thereof;
 
(2) The interpretation Ordinance (Chapter 2) shall apply to the interpretation of an emergency 
regulation and of any Orders or rules made thereunder, as it applies to the interpretation of an act 
or Ordinance or Law.
(3) any reference in any document or any other written law to any emergency regulation shall, 
unless the contrary intention appears, be construed as a reference to that regulation, as amended by 
any subsequent regulation made under the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40).
(4) Where any emergency regulation requires or enables a period   to  be specified in any direction 
or Order made under such regulation, and such direction or Order does not specify any such period, 
such period shall be deemed to be the period during which the regulation under which such direction 
or Order is given or made remains in force.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
3a
Emergency powers 
to be in addition to 
the powers of the 
President.
3. Save as otherwise expressly provided, the powers conferred by any emergency regulation 
shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of any other rights or powers which by law are vested in 
or conferred on the President or any other authority or person.
Delegation of 
powers of the 
President to any 
minister.
4. any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on the President by any emergency 
regulation may be exercised, performed or discharged by any Minister who is authorized in that 
behalf by the President.
appointment 
of Competent 
authority.
5. (1) The President may appoint, by name or by office any person as competent authority for the 
purposes of any emergency regulation made or may be made generally or specially for the whole of 
Sri Lanka or for any area or place specified in writing by which such person is appointed and may 
be limited to such of those purposes as may be specified in writing:
Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions of this paragraph shall be deemed  to  preclude 
the appointment of two or more persons to be competent authorities for any of the purposes of any 
regulation or for any specified area or place.
(2) Where the holder of a designated office has been appointed to be a competent 
authority, then, unless express provision is made to the contrary, the appointment shall be 
deemed to extend to the person for the time being performing the duties of the office designated.
Service of notices. 6. Without prejudice to any special provisions contained in any emergency regulation, a notice 
to be served on any person for the purpose of any emergency regulation may be served by handing 
over such notice or by sending it by post addressed to that person at his last or usual place of abode 
or place of business.
revocation and 
variation of  an 
order, & c.
7. any power conferred by any emergency regulation to make any order or rule shall be construed 
as including a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like conditions, if any, to revoke 
or vary the order or rule.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
4a
PART II
ESSENTIAL   SERVICES
appointment of 
Commissioner 
General of Essential 
Services to 
co- ordinate 
essential services.
8. (1) The President may, by order, appoint any person by name or by office to be the 
Commissioner- General of Essential Services for the whole of Sri Lanka. it shall be the duty of the 
Commissioner-General of Essential Services to execute and co-ordinate all activities relating to the 
supply and maintenance of essential services.
(2) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may appoint, by name or by 
office, such Additional Commissioners, Deputy Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners 
as may be necessary for the performance of his duties under these regulations.
(3) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may delegate to any additional 
Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner or assistant Commissioner appointed under paragraph (2) 
any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on, or assigned to such Commissioner-General 
by or under these regulations.
(4) for the purpose of the performance of duties under these regulations, the Commissioner-
General of  Essential Services may exercise any power conferred on any authority or officer to whom 
any power under these regulations have been delegated.
(5) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may give to —
(a) any authority or officer, to whom any power has been delegated under these 
regulations; and
(b) any Coordinating Officer appointed under regulation 40,
such directions as may be necessary for ensuring the maintenance of essential services, and 
it shall be the duty of such authority, officer or coordinating officer as the case may be, to comply 
with every such direction.
Essential Services. 9. (1) The President may by Order published in the Gazette, declare any service to be an essential 
service, if it appears to be so necessary for the maintenance and preservation of public order and for 
the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.
(2) any person engaged or employed in any work, in connection with a service declared to be 
an essential service by the President in terms of paragraph (1), who –
(a) fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of 
such Order, to attend at his place of work or employment or such other place as 
may from time to time be designated by his employer or a person acting under the 
authority of his employer; or
(b) fails or refuses without lawful excuse to work or keeps away from work, without 
working during the full period or any part of the normal working day as is required 
by him in accordance with the terms and conditions of his employment in such 
service; or

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
5a
(c) fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of 
such Order to perform such work as he may be directed by his employer or a person 
acting under the authority of his employer; or
(d) being a person engaged or employed in a specified service, fails or refuses without 
lawful excuse to perform such work as he may from time to time be directed by 
his employer or a person acting under the authority of his employer, to perform 
at such time or place within such periods as may be specified by such employer 
or such person for the performance of such work (whether such time or place or 
period is within or outside normal working hours or on holidays), notwithstanding 
that he has failed or refused to so attend or to so work in furtherance of a strike or 
other organized action,
shall be deemed for all purposes to have forthwith terminated or vacated his employment 
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law or the terms and conditions of any contract 
governing his employment and in addition, be guilty of an offence.
(3) Where any service is declared to be an essential service by the President, by Order published 
in the Gazette -
(a) any person who, in any manner whatsoever –
(i) impedes, obstructs, delays or restricts the carrying on of that service; or
 (ii) impedes, obstructs, or prevents any other persons employed in, or in 
connection with the carrying on of that service to refrain from attending 
at his place of work; or
(iii) incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in or in 
connection with the carrying on of that service to refrain from attending 
at his place of work; or
(iv) compels, incites induces or encourages the establishment or maintenance 
of any other service in lieu of or parallel with that service being a 
government department or branch thereof; or
(v)  compels, incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in, 
or in connection with, the carrying on that service, to surrender or depart 
from his employment (whether or not such other person does so surrender 
or depart in consequence); or
(vi) prevents any other person from offering or accepting employment in, or 
in connection with, the carrying on of that service;
(b) any person who, by any physical act or by any speech or writing incites, induces 
or encourages any other person to commit an act specified in sub paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph (whether or not such other person commits in consequence any 
act so specified),
 commits an offence and shall on conviction by the High Court be liable to imprisonment of either 
description for a term not exceeding three years.
(4) any person who is deemed to have terminated or vacated his employment by reason of 
the operation of the provisions of paragraph (2) of this regulation shall vacate any quarters provided 
to him, by or on behalf of the government, within three days of such termination or vacation. any 
person who fails to vacate such quarters within such period commits an offence under these regulations.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
6a
(5) Where any person is convicted by the High Court of any offence under this regulation, 
then, in addition to any other penalty that the High Court shall impose for such offence –
(a) all property movable or immovable, of that person shall, by virtue of such 
conviction, be deemed to be forfeited to the republic; and
(b) any alienation or other disposal of such property effected by such person after 
the date of the coming into force of these regulations shall be deemed to have 
been and to be, null and void.
(6) Where any service is declared to be an essential service, by the President, by Order 
published in the Gazette, the services of any officer, servant, employee or agent employed in or 
belonging to any such service declared to be essential may, whenever deemed to be necessary, be 
requisitioned by the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Defence or 
any officer authorized by him in that behalf, in consultation with the Secretary to the Ministry of 
the minister to whom the relevant subject has been assigned.
(7) in this regulation-
“quarters” means any building or room or other accommodation occupied or used 
for the purpose of residence and includes any land or premises in which such 
building, room or other accommodation is situated; and 
“specified service” means any essential service which is declared to be a specified 
service by the President under paragraph (1) being an essential service, in which 
a person employed or engaged in any work in connection with such service, 
may be required to work outside normal working hours or on holidays.
Prevention of 
sunauthorized 
entry.
PART  III
RIGHT  OF  ENTRY
10. (1) The President may appoint by name or by office a person to be a competent authority 
in relation to any essential service for the purpose of these regulations.
(2) if a competent authority is of the opinion that special precautions shall be taken to prevent 
the entry of unauthorized persons into any area, place or premises wholly or mainly occupied or 
used for the maintenance of essential services, that competent authority may by Order direct that 
no person shall, subject to such exemptions as may be specified in the Order, enter or remain upon 
that area or place or those premises without the permission of such authority or person as may be 
specified in the Order.
(3) if any person is in any area, place or premises in contravention of an Order made under this 
regulation, then without prejudice to any other action that may be taken against him, he may be 
removed therefrom by any police officer or any member of Armed Forces o r  b y  a n y  other person 
authorized in that behalf by a competent authority.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
7a
PART IV
SEARCH  AND  ARREST
search and arrest 
for offences.
11. (1) Any Police officer or any member of the Armed Forces  may search, detain for purposes 
of such search, or arrest without warrant, any person who is committing or has committed or whom 
he has reasonable ground for suspected to have been concerned in, or to have  committed an offence 
under any of these regulations or any offence in terms of sections  345, 354, 355, 356, 357, 358, 359, 
360, 360a, 360B, 360C and sections 364, 365, 365a, 365B, and sections 427 to 446 of the Penal Code 
(Chapter 19) , and may also search, seize, remove and detain any vehicle, vessel, article, substance or 
thing whatsoever used in, or in connection with, the commission of the offence.
(2) any person arrested by a member of the armed forces under paragraph (1) shall, within 
twenty-four hours, be handed over to the nearest police station.
(3) Any person arrested by a police officer shall be taken to the nearest police station.
(4) Any person conducting a search under paragraph (1) may question any other person present 
in the premises, place, vehicle or vessel searched, or the person who is searched, in regard to any 
matter connected with or relating to the purpose of the search.
(5) Every person who is questioned under paragraph (4) shall furnish such information as is 
within his knowledge in regard to the matter on which he is questioned.
(6) The person residing in or in charge of any premises, place, vehicle or vessel which is to be 
searched under this regulation shall, on demand of the person conducting the search, allow him free 
ingress thereto and afford all reasonable facilities for a search therein.
(7) a person conducting a search under this regulation may, in order to effect an entrance into the 
premises, place, vehicle or vessel to be searched, open or break open any outer or inner door or window.
(8) Whenever it is necessary to cause a female to be searched, the search shall be made by 
another female.
(9) It shall be the duty of the arresting officer causing the arrest of any person within 
twenty-four hours of the arrest to report the arrest made under paragraph (1), where the 
arresting officer is a police officer, to the Officer in Charge of the Police Station in the area in which the 
arrest was made and where the arresting officer is a member of the Armed Forces, to the Commanding 
Officer of the area within which the arrest is made.
(10) Where any property is seized or detained under the provisions of this regulation a person 
effecting the seizure or detention shall issue a receipt in respect of such property to the person from 
whose custody such property was seized or detained.
(11) The President may from time to time by Order prohibit the holding of public processions 
or public meetings as may be specified in that Order in any area in Sri Lanka for such period and 
subject to such exemptions as may be specified in that Order. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
8a
(12) The inspector General of Police may, in respect of any area in Sri Lanka, by Order direct 
that subject to such exemptions as may be specified in such Order that no person in that area shall 
between such hours or during such period as may be specified in the Order, be on any public road, 
railway, park, recreation ground or any other public place, except under the authority of the written 
permit granted by Officer-in-Charge of a police station.  
PART  V
OFFENCES  AND  PENALTIES
Offences. 12. (1) any person who –
(a) does, any act which causes the destruction of, or damage to, property, whether 
movable or immovable, or any such change in any such property, as 
destroys or diminishes its value or utility; or
(b) causes or attempts to cause death or injury to any person; or
(c) commits criminal intimidation or assault on any other person; or
(d) commits theft of any article in any premises which have been left vacant 
or unprotected or which have been damaged or destroyed; or
(e) commits any offence under sections 345, 354, 355, 356, 357, 358, 359, 360, 
360a, 360B, 360C, 364, 365, 365a, 365B of the Penal Code (Chapter 
19); or
 (f) commits theft, extortion or robbery of any property; or
(g) commits any offence under any of the sections 427 to 446 of the Penal 
Code (Chapter 19) or illegally removes or attempts to remove any goods 
or articles from any such premises; or 
(h) is a member of an unlawful assembly as defined in section 138 of the Penal 
Code(Chapter 19) the object of which assembly is to do any act referred 
to in sub-paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g), 
Commits an offence and, notwithstanding anything in the Penal Code 
(Chapter 19) or in these regulations shall, on conviction thereof before the 
High Court, be liable to suffer life imprisonment or to imprisonment of either 
description for a term of twenty years.
(2) The provisions of section 96 of the Penal Code(Chapter 19) which relates to the right of 
private defence of property and provide for the circumstances in which death or other harm can be 
caused to a wrongdoer in the exercise of such right shall have effect as though the following was 
added at the end of that section:-
“fifthly any offence under regulation 12 of  the Emergency (miscellaneous Provisions and 
Powers) regulations, No.1 of 2022.”
(3) (a) an indictment in respect of any offence under this emergency regulation may be 
forwarded by the Attorney – General to the High Court, if he is satisfied that the offence was 
committed in furtherance of or in connection with or in the course of a civil disturbance or racially 
motivated riots prevailing at or about the time of the commission of such offence:

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
9a
Provided that, having regard to the circumstances relating to the commission of any offence, 
the attorney-General may authorize the inspector - General of Police to institute proceedings in 
respect of such offence or such category of offences as he may specify, in the magistrate’s Court. 
There upon the proceedings in respect of such offences  may be instituted in the magistrate’s Court 
with the written authority of the inspector - General of Police, and the provisions of Chapter XVii 
of the Code of Criminal Procedure act, No. 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in relation 
to the trial in respect of such offences, 
(b) Where the proceedings are instituted in a magistrate’s Court, the offender shall be liable 
to such punishment provided for in regulation 24 of these regulations.
Prevention of 
disaffection.
13. No person shall-
(a) endeavour to cause disaffection among persons who are-
(i) public officers; or
(ii) engaged in the service of the republic; or
(iii) engaged in the performance of essential services; or
(b) endeavour to induce any person referred to in paragraph (a) to do or omit to do anything 
in breach of his duty as a public officer or as a person as aforesaid would constitute 
such a contravention.  
Distribution of 
leaflets & c.
14. No person shall affix in any place visible to the public or distribute among the 
public any posters, hand bills or leaflets, the contents of which are prejudicial to public 
security, public order or the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of 
the community.
Communication 
or spreading of 
rumours and false 
statements.
15. No person shall, by word of mouth or by any other means whatsoever, including 
digital means or social media, communicate or spread any rumour or false statement or any 
information or image or message which is likely to cause public alarm, public disorder or 
racial violence or which is likely to incite the committing of an offence.
false 
statements.
16. If any person who —
(a) in answer to any request made in pursuance of any emergency regulation or any Order 
made under any such regulation makes any statement or furnishes any information 
which he knows or has reasonable cause to believe to be false in a material particular; 
or
(b) makes such a statement as aforesaid in any account, declaration, estimate, return or 
other document which he is required by any emergency regulation or by order under 
any emergency regulation to make,
commits an offence.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
10a
Detention for 
the purpose of 
investigation.
17. (1) any person arrested in terms of these regulations may be detained for the purpose of 
investigation in terms of an Order issued by a Deputy inspector General of Police. Such person shall 
be detained in accordance with the conditions stipulated in such Order for a period not exceeding 
fourteen days.
(2) any person arrested in terms of the preceding regulations shall as soon as possible be brought 
to a police station and detained therein for a period not exceeding twenty-four hours and be produced 
before magistrate, unless an Order for his detention has been made by Deputy inspector General of 
Police in terms of those regulations 
(3) a person remanded or detained under these regulations shall have the right to communicate 
with his relatives.
(4) an attorney-at -Law representing a person detained under these regulations shall have right 
of access to such person and to make representations on behalf of such person subject to conditions 
determined by the Deputy inspector General of Police who has made the Order of detention of such 
person. 
Prevention of 
intimidation.
18. (1) No person shall attend at or near a house or place where any other person resides or 
works or carries on business or happens to be in, such a manner that amounts to intimidate any 
person in that house or place or to obstruct the approach thereto or egress therefrom, or to lead to a 
breach of the peace.
(2) in this regulation-
“intimidate” means to cause in the mind of a person a reasonable apprehension of injury 
to him or to any member of his family or to any of his dependents or of violence 
or damage to any person or property; and
“injury” includes any injury or damage caused by a wrongful action to a person or to his 
business, occupation, employment or other source of income.
resistance to 
or obstruction 
of persons in 
authority.
19. No person shall resist or obstruct any other person in the exercise or performance of any 
power or duty conferred or imposed on that other person by or under any emergency regulation.
 
Obstruction or 
damage to roads, 
railway &c.
20. No person shall without lawful authority cause any obstruction or damage to any public 
road, bridge, culvert of any public road, to any railway or to public transport vehicle.
attempt to 
commit offences.
21. Any person who —
(a) attempts to commit or does any act preparatory to the commission of; or
(b) aids or abets another person to commit; or
(c) conspires with another person, in the commission of,
an offence under any emergency regulation shall himself be guilty of that offence and shall 
accordingly be tried in like manner and be punished with the same punishment as is prescribed for 
such offence under the emergency regulation.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
11a
assisting an 
offence.
22. No person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that any other person is guilty 
of an offence under any emergency regulation shall give that other person any assistance with intent 
thereby to prevent, hinder or interfere with the apprehension, trial or punishment of that person for 
the said offence.
Offences 
by bodies of 
persons.
23. Where an offence under any emergency regulation is committed by a body of persons, then-
(a)  if that body is a body corporate, every director of such body corporate ; and
(b) if that body is a firm, every partner of that firm,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was committed 
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent that commission of the offence.
Penalties. 24. (1) any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any emergency regulation, or any 
order or rule made under any such regulation or any direction given or requirement imposed under 
any such regulation, commits an offence, and subject to any special provisions contained in such 
regulation, shall on conviction after trial before the Hight Court without a jury or before a magistrate, 
be liable to rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than three months and not exceeding five years 
and to a fine of not less than five hundred rupees and not exceeding five thousand rupees.
   (2) Where no punishment is prescribed in any emergency regulation for an offence under 
that regulation a person guilty of such offence shall, on conviction after trial without a jury before the 
High Court or before a Magistrate, be liable to the same punishment as that specified in paragraph (1).
                  (3) The provisions of section 306 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure act, No. 15 of 1979, 
shall not apply to any person convicted of an offence under any emergency regulation
PART  VI
INVESTIGATIONS,  TRIALS  &  C.
Duty to disclose 
information.
25. (1) Whoever becomes aware of an intention or an attempt of a preparation to commit, or the 
commission of an offence under any emergency regulation shall forthwith give information thereof to 
the nearest Grama Niladhari or to the Officer-in-charge of the nearest police station.
(2) any person who willfully fails or refuses to give the information referred to in paragraph (1) 
shall be guilty of an offence.
(3) any Grama Niladhari who has received any information of any offence under these 
regulations shall forthwith give such information to the nearest police station. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
12a
Powers of 
investigating 
police officers.
26. Any police officer investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation may —
(a) examine orally any person suspected to be acquainted with the facts and 
circumstances of the offence and shall reduce into writing any statement 
made by the person so examined:
Provided, however, any such statement shall be signed both by the 
person making it as well as by the police officer recording it:
Provided further that in the case of a person refusing to sign any such 
statement, such refusal shall be recorded by the police officer;
(b) obtain specimen handwriting, photographs, fingerprints and other 
identifying features of such person;
(c) search such person or enter and search the dwelling house or the place of 
work of such person;
(d) enter and search any place, building, vehicle or vessel concerned in, or 
connected with, or suspected to be concerned in or connected with, any 
such offence; and
(e) inspect and take possession of any movable property whatsoever including 
any telegraph message, postal document or other book or document in any 
bank:
Provided, however, that before any book or document is sought 
to be obtained from any bank, or post office, the manager or officer - in - 
charge of such bank or post office, as the case may be, shall be furnished 
with prior written information by a Police officer not below the rank of 
an Assistant Superintendent that such book or document is required for 
the purpose of such investigation.
Documents in  
possession of 
suspected persons .
27. any book, document or paper found in the possession, custody or control of a person 
suspected to be concerned in any offence under any emergency regulation shall be relevant in any 
proceedings against such person in respect of such offence and the contents of such book, document 
or paper shall be admitted in evidence, against such person without proof thereof.
The right to make 
inquiries and 
the duty to give 
assistance.
28. (1) A police officer or a person duly authorized under the emergency regulations 
investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation shall, notwithstanding anything to the 
contrary in any other law have —
(a) the right to question any person, including a person detained or held in custody 
under any emergency regulation and to take such person from place to place for 
the purpose of such investigation during the period of such questioning; and
(b) the right to take charge from any person so questioned any article or other thing 
including a document necessary for the purpose of such investigation.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
13a
(2) It shall be the duty of every person to give all assistance to a Police Officer or to other 
person duly authorized, investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation and every 
person questioned under sub- paragraph (a) of paragraph (1) shall truthfully answer all questions 
put to him and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law shall disclose all information 
including the contents of any document, touching the subject matter of the investigation, irrespective 
of the capacity in which such person has received such information or knowledge of the contents of 
such document.
(3) It shall be the duty of every person questioned under sub-paragraph ( a) of paragraph 
(1) to deliver to the police officer or a person duly authorized to investigate into an offence under any 
emergency regulation any article or other thing including a document in the custody or possession 
of such person when directed so to do by such police officer or person duly authorized.
(4) any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation or breaches any duty imposed 
thereunder commits an offence under regulation 49 of these regulations.
right of access to 
police officer
29. During the period that any person is held in detention or custody, a police officer 
investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation shall have a right of access 
during reasonable hours to any such person for the purpose of such investigation.
Powers of a police 
officer in addition 
to other powers
30. The powers of a police officer under any emergency regulation shall be in addition to, 
and not in derogation of, his powers under any other written law.
Priority for court 
proceedings.
31. The proceedings in any court in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by 
a person under any emergency regulation shall be taken up before any other business of the court.
Inquiries and 
trials.
32. (1) Save as otherwise provided herein and notwithstanding any other written 
law the proceedings in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by a person 
under any emergency regulation may be taken before the appropriate court in Sri Lanka 
having jurisdiction over the place where that person is in for the time being.
(2) The Attorney - General may decide in which court —
(a) offences alleged to have been committed by persons under the emergency regulations;
                                                          or
(b) offences alleged to have been committed by persons under any other written law 
where the acts or omission constituting such offences were consequent on, or arose 
out of, or were done or omitted to be done in, whether directly or indirectly, the 
exercise or performance, or the supposed exercise or performance, of any power 
or duty under such regulations, 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
14a
shall be inquired into or tried. Such court, shall be a court which would have had jurisdiction if such 
offences were committed within the jurisdiction of such court.
(3) Where at least one of the charges is for an offence referred to in sub-paragraph 
(b) of paragraph (2) the attorney - General may, notwithstanding the provisions of any other 
written law, forward an indictment directly to the High Court and the accused shall be tried 
upon the indictment so preferred without a jury.
(4) Where the attorney-General decides, under paragraph (2) the court by which 
any offence shall be inquired into or tried, he shall by his fiat in writing designate such 
court as the court by which such offence shall be inquired into or tried and accordingly 
such inquiry or trial shall be held by such court on the authority of such fiat, which shall be 
filed of record with the proceedings of such inquiry or trial.
(5) a decision of the attorney General under paragraph (2) may be made applicable 
to –
(a) all offences alleged to have been committed by persons under the emergency regulations 
throughout Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or
(b) all such offences alleged to have been so committed by persons of any particular class 
or description in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or
(c) all such offences of any particular class or description alleged to have been so committed 
by persons throughout Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or
(d) all such offences of any particular class or description alleged to have been committed 
by person of any particular class or description, or any particular person, throughout 
Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or
(e) any particular offence alleged to have been committed by any particular person 
throughout Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka.
(6) During the continuance in force of this regulation, Section 47 of the Judicature act,               
No. 2 of 1978 which empowers the Attorney-General to transfer and inquire into (or trial of) 
any criminal offence from any court or place to any other court or place or shall have effect as if 
subsection (2) of that section were not in force.
Sanction of 
attorney-General.
33. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of regulation 12, no prosecution shall be 
instituted in the magistrate’s Court -
(a) for an offence against any emergency regulation; or
(b) for an offence against any other written law where the act or omission constituting 
such offence was consequent on, or arose out of, or was done or committed to 
be done in, whether directly or indirectly, the exercise or performance, of any 
power or duty under such regulation,
except by or with the written sanction of the Attorney-General.
(2) The President may by order declare that the provisions of paragraph (1) shall not apply 
in respect of any offence against any such emergency regulation as may be specified in the order and 
accordingly, so long as such order remains in force, that paragraph shall not apply to any such offence.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
15a
Trials before 
High Court.
34. (1) Notwithstanding  any emergency regulation or other written law the trail, including 
a trial at bar, for any offence under the emergency regulations, may be held upon indictment by the 
Attorney - General and thereupon the person charged shall be tried without a preliminary inquiry 
before High Court at bar, as the case may be, without a jury:
Provided that where the attorney - General being of opinion that evidence recorded 
at a preliminary inquiry will be necessary for preparing an indictment, may direct the holding of a 
preliminary inquiry. The provisions of Chapter XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 
of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such preliminary inquiry.
(2) No person suspected or accused of having committed an offence in terms of these 
regulations be admitted to bail except under exceptional circumstances.
(3) a trial before the High Court under these regulations, including a High Court 
at Bar, shall be held as speedily as possible and in the manner provided under any other 
written law for other trials before the High Courts, or the High Court at Bar, as the case 
may be, without a jury.
Provisions of 
Chapter Xi 
of the Code 
of Criminal 
Procedure act, 
No. 15 of 1979 
not to apply.
35. The provisions of Chapter Xi of the Code of Criminal Procedure act, No. 15 
of 1979, shall not apply to any investigations conducted under any emergency regulation.
PART VII
 
MISCELLANEOUS
miscellaneous 
powers.
36. (1) During the continuance in force of this regulation, any police officer of a rank 
not below that of a Sergeant, any member of the Sri Lanka army of a rank not below that of a 
Corporal, any member of the Sri Lanka Navy of a rank not below that of a Leading Seaman, 
or any member of the Sri Lanka air force of a rank not below that of a Corporal, may order 
any person or persons in or about any public road, railway, public park, public recreation 
ground or other public ground, seashore, or in or about, or in the vicinity of, the premises of 
any public building or Government department, to remove himself or themselves from that 
place and it shall be the duty of such person, or each such person, as the case may be, to 
comply with such Order.
(2) If, upon the issue of an order under paragraph (1) by any officer empowered 
to issue such order, any person does not comply with the order or conducts himself in such a 
manner as to show a determination not to comply with the order such officer with such assistance 
as may be necessary, may proceed to give effect to such order by force including armed force, 
and may cause such person to be removed or arrested and confined.
(3) During the continuance in force of this regulation, sections 306 (1), (2) and (4) 
of the Code of Criminal procedure act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not apply to or in relation to any 
person who is charged with, or is convicted of, any offence under any emergency regulation.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
16a
Duty to answer 
question.
37. (1) Notwithstanding anything in any other law to the contrary, a person taken 
into custody and detained under any emergency regulation may, during the period of such 
custody and detention, be questioned by any Police officer, or any other officer authorized 
by the Commander of the army, Commander of the Navy or Commander of the air force 
and it shall be the duty of the person so questioned to answer the question addressed to him.
(2) for the purpose of questioning any person taken into custody and detained under paragraph 
(1) or for any other purpose connected with such questioning, any officer referred to in paragraph 
(1) may remove such person from any place of detention or custody and keep him in the temporary 
custody of such officer for a period not exceeding seven days at a time.
Power to obtain 
information or 
examine articles.
38. (1) Without prejudice to any special provisions contained in these regulations, any 
person shall, on being requested so do by or on behalf of a competent authority, furnish or 
produce to such authority or person as may be specified in the request any such information 
or article in his possession as may be so specified, being information or an article which the 
authority or person making the request is of opinion that is it necessary or expedient to 
obtain or examine in the interests of the national security or the maintenance of public order, 
or for the purposes of any emergency regulation, and if any person fails to furnish or produce 
any information or reticule in his possession in pursuance of a request duly made to him under 
this regulation, he shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) in this regulation, “article” includes any book, account or document.
Exemption of 
members of the 
armed forces 
from certain 
provisions of the 
Motor Traffic Act. 
39. a member of armed forces shall, when he is driving any motor vehicle when 
authorized so to do by the Competent authority, for the purpose of the preservation of 
public order, be exempt from the provisions of the Motor Traffic Act, and the regulations made 
thereunder as are specified in Schedule A to the Motor Traffic (Exemption of Her Majesty’s 
forces) regulations, 1955, published in Gazette No. 10,815 of 08th July, 1955.
Powers, duties 
and functions of 
a Government 
agent.
40. (1) The President may, by Order, appoint any person, by name or by office, to 
be the Coordinating Officer for any area in Sri Lanka as specified in the Order.
(2) Where a Coordinating Officer is appointed by the President by Order for any area 
in Sri Lanka, such Officer shall exercise, perform and discharge in that area all the powers, 
duties and functions conferred or imposed on a Government agent under any written law or 
otherwise, and for that purpose every reference shall in its application in case of that area, 
be construed as a reference to such Coordinating Officer.
(3) The President may, by Order, appoint any person, by name or by office, to be 
Coordinator-in-Chief to exercise supervision over Coordinating Officer appointed under 
paragraph (1) for any such areas as are specified in the Order.
(4) The President may appoint, by name or by office, such Deputy Coordinators-
in-Chief as may be necessary to assist the Coordinator in Chief for the performance of his 
duties under these regulations.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'05'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.05.2022
17a
(5) The Coordinator-in-Chief may delegate to any Deputy appointed under paragraph 
(4) any power, duty or function, conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such Coordinator-
in-Chief under these regulations.
(6) any Coordinator-in Chief appointed under paragraph (3), or any Deputy 
Coordinator-in-Chief appointed under paragraph (4) or who has been delegated the powers 
of the Coordinating in Chief under paragraph (5), may-
(a) exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on any 
Coordinating Officer by this regulation and over whom he exercises supervision;
(b) give special or general directions to Coordinating Officer over whom he exercises 
supervision, as to the exercise, performance or discharge by such Coordinating Officer, 
of any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on such Coordinating Officer by 
this regulation.
Duty of public 
servants & c.
41. It shall be the duty of all public servants, police officers, members of the Armed 
forces and employees of the statutory boards and authorities to take steps in good faith to 
enforce the provisions of these regulations in good faith, impartially and comprehensively 
and prevent a violation of any of the regulations contained herein to the best of their ability. 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.