

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
ANURADHAPURA SRI PUSHPADANA
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 34 OF 2011
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 22nd August, 2011]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 26, 2011

<!-- page 2 -->

1Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
Short title.
Preamble.
2—PL 005079 —3,190 (07/2010)
[Certified on 22nd August, 2011]
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  ANURADHAPURA  SRI PUSHPADANA
D EVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as
“Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development Foundation”
has heretofore been formed in Anuradhapura in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
all objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be expedient to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Anuradhapura
Sri Pushpadana Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 34 of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act
such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of “Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued, with
full power and authority to have, and use a common seal and
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to safeguard the Buddhist cultural heritage within
the sacred area in Anuradhapura;
Incorporation
of the
Anuradhapura
Sri Pushpadana
Development
Foundation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
2
(b) to make arrangements for free distribution of flowers
among the Buddhist devotees who arrive in to the
sacred area in Anurdhapura;
(c) to offer “dana” (mid day meal) and “gilanpasa”
(evening meal) to the visiting Bhikku (Monks),
Upasaka, Upasika, paupers and travelers on each
and every full moon day;
(d) to make arrangements for conducting Seela and
Meditation classes and Dhamma sermon for
Buddhist devotees in the sacred area in
Anuradhapura;
(e) to make arrangements for the protection of the
personal belongings of  pilgrims on special festive
occasions and to provide them with other necessary
facilities;
(f) to publish Damma books and leaflets for the
promotion of the Buddhism and to establish a
Buddhist Library Service;
(g) to assist Buddhist monks and needy Buddhist
children in their studies and organize scholarships
for them; and
(h) to undertake activities in co-ordination with other
Buddhist institutions whose objectives are similar
to that of the Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do
perform and execute all such acts matters and things
whatsoever of the objects of the Corporation or one of them,
including the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct or otherwise
obtain land or building which may be required for
the purposes of the Corporation;
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
(b) to receive grants, gifts or donation, in cash or kind
whether from local or foreign sources;
(c) to erect or cause to be erected, any building or
structure on any land belonging to, or held by the
Corporation;
(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory note and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close current,
saving and deposit account in any bank;
(e) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Committee may think fit;
(f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer lawful trusts and conditions affecting
any movable or immovable property;
(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the corporation; and
(h) to train personnel in the matters required to be
done  for the implementation of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act, be administered by a
Committee consisting of a Chief  Chairman, seven Vice
Chairmen, a  Chief Secretary, Vice Secretary, a Treasurer
and Auditor and  Nineteen other Committee Members as
may be provided for in the rules made under section 8 and
elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consist
of the members of the Committee of the Foundation holding
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
4
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act and who shall hold office until a
new committee is elected under the rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) The Board shall cause to be maintained a register
in which every person who on the date of commencement of
this Act, is a member of the Corporation, and every person
thereafter duly admitted as member of the Corporation shall
have inscribed in such register his name.
(2) The register shall contain the following particulars:—
(a) name, address and occupation of the each Member
of the Corporation;
(b) the date on which the name of the member was
inscribed in the register; and
(c) the date on which any person ceased to be member.
7. Cancellation of membership may cause due to one of
the following reasons:—
(a) at the death of the member;
(b) resignation;
(c) mental incapacity; and
(d) violation of any rules.
8. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting and by a majority of
not   less than two-thirds of the members present and voting,
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
Register of
members.
Cancellation of
membership.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
(b) the election of the office bearers, the resignation
from, or vacation of, or removal from, office of office
bearers, and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee and
their powers, conduct and duties, and the terms of
office of members of the Corporation;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and function of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed and the summoning
and holding of meeting of the Committee, the times,
places, notices and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum thereof and the conduct of business thereat;
and
(f) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Committee shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, any expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance
and discharge of its powers, duties and functions of  this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
6
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contribution payable to, the Foundation on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts, to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual, who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute;
(ii) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 8, with full power to sell mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chief Chairman and the Chief Secretary or the Treasurer
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of the
their presence, and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other Institution or
Institutions having object similar to those of the Corporation,
and which is or are by the rules there of prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its or their
members. Such Institution or Institutions shall be determined
by the Corporation immediately before, the dissolution of
the Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic, or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
right of the
Republic and
other.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of any
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Anuradhapura Sri Pushpadana Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2011
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.