

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'06
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.04.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2065$62 - 2018 wfma%,a ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'04'06
No.2065/62 -  FRIDAY  APRIL  06,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
WESTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute on Execution of Powers of the Local Government Authorities No. 02 of 2017
I, hereby notify that the Statute on Executing Powers of the Local Government Authorities No. 02 of 2017 described in the
Schedule below has been assented by the Hon. Governor of Western Province on 19th of October 2017 after being passed
by the Western Provincial Council on 19th of September 2017 and accordingly the said Statute shall be effective in the
Western Province from 19th of October 2017.
I
SURA DEV APRIY A,
The Chief Minister of the Western Provincial Council
and the Minister of Finance, Planning, Law and Order,
Local Government, Provincial Administration,
Economic Development, Power and Energy,
Environment Affairs, Water Supply and Drainage
and Tourist Affairs,
Western Province.
At the Ministry of Local Government of Western Province,
Sravasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07,
on the date of 04th April 2018.
Statute to Execute Powers of Local Government Institutions No. 02 of 2017 of the Provincial Council of
Western Province
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG  3982  — 08  (04/2018)
A Statute to provide provisions to inspect the plans for the land getting prepared for any development
purpose and plans for land subdivisions, all construction plans subjected for the duties of Local Government
Institutions of any jurisdiction of Local Government Institution of Western Province, making directives
relevant to it, including approving such plans and to make the provisions of Housing and Town Improvement
Ordinance and the provisions of Town and Country Planning Ordinance effective for it and to determine
the powers to the Local Government Institutions with regard to the matters incidental to it.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'06
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.04.2018
2A
This statute shall repugnant to the subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Section 23 of Urban
Development Authority Act, No. 41 of 1978 of the National State Assembly amended by Urban
Development Authority (Amendment) Act, No. 4 of 1982.
Be it in enacted by the Provincial Council of Western Province of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
This statute shall be cited as the Statute to Execute Powers of Local Government Institutions
No. 02 of 2017 of Western Province and shall come into effect on such date assented by the Governor of
the Western Province.
1. The objectives of the statute shall be as follows :
(i) Approving, inspecting and making necessary directives either by a local government
institution or the Mayor or Chairman, the plans of land and land subdivisions that are with
residential, industrial, and commercial purposes in a jurisdiction of a Local Government
Institution, plans for building constructions or plans related to any other development
project.
(ii) Determining the written law related to approving, inspecting and making necessary
directives either by a local government institution or the Mayor or Chairman, the plans
of land and land subdivisions that are with residential, industrial, and commercial purposes
in a jurisdiction of a Local Government Institution, plans for building constructions or
plans related to any other development project.
(iii) Providing provisions to make the provisions of Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance
and the provisions of Town and Country Planning Ordinance effective.
2. Operation of any provision mentioned under the Urban Development Authority Act, No. 41 of
1978 of National State Assembly or any directive made under it in the jurisdiction of Local
Government Institutions of the Western Province, which prevents executing the powers,
discharging duties or making an action mentioned under Housing and Town Improvement
Ordinance in a jurisdiction of a Local Government Institution to approve, to operate a plan
relevant for any part of land or a subdivision of land for the use of residential, industrial,
commercial purpose, plan of a building relevant for a permanent construction or an amendement
relevant for such plan or a plan relevant for any other development project, or to do directives
relevant for it by a Local Government Institution, Mayor, Chairman in terms of the provisions
of Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance shall be none effective from the date of operation
of this Statute.
3. After the date of operation of this Statute, the Mayor, Chairman of Local Government Institutions
may, in accordance with the provisions of the Housing and Town Improvement Ordinance, shall
approve a plan relevant for any part of land or a subdivision of land in a jurisdiction of a Local
Government Institution of Western Province, a plan of a building relevant for a permanent
construction or an amendment relevant for such plan or a plan relevant for any other development
project, issue a license for a development purpose, take legal actions for unauthorized
constructions and functions incidental to it.
4. (i) The Minister may make Rules under this Statute with regard to any matter relevant to
operate provisions related to the objective under this Statute.
(ii) Every such Rule made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and it shall be
operative from the date of such publish or any future date mentioned in the Gazette.
Short Title and
date of Operation
The objectives of
the statute
Effectiveness of
the provisions of
the Housing and
Town
Improvement
Ordinance
Making rules

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'06
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.04.2018
(iii) Rules made by the Minister shall be presented to the Provincial Council for approval
within three months from the publishing in the Gazette. The Provincial Council may
approve such Rules and shall notify about such approval by a Gazette. If not approved as
such, it shall also be notified by a Gazette and such Rules shall be considered as terminated
without prejudice for the actions taken under it till then.
In this statute, unless the text otherwise requires
“Local Government Institutions” means Pradeshiya Sabha, Urban Councils and Municipal Councils
of Western Province.
“Chairman” means the Chairman elected for the Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Mayor” means the mayor elected for the Municipal Council.
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the Local Government subject of the Western Province.
In an inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statute, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
04-790
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Interpretation