

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2888
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"996 – 2016 foieïn¾ ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'12'02
No. 1,996 –  fRiday ,  dEcEmbER  02, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd december, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 9th  december, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2885
Note.—  (i) Sri Lanka international Nature Loving association (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II 
of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of october 21, 2016.
 (ii) Nations Environmental forum (NEf) (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 04, 2016.
 (iii) divineguma (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of November 18, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2886
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2887
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2888
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
DEPARTmENT Of mOTOR TRAffIC
Written Examination for the registration of 
Driving Instructors - 2016
aPPLicatioNS are hereby invited from the citizens of 
Sri Lanka for the written Examination for the registration 
of driving instructors until 02.01.2017. this exam will be 
conducted on march 2017 colombo.
01. 
Qualifications : The Applicants should have fullfilled 
the following qualifications.
 i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. age should not be less than 23 years and not more 
than 65 years.
 iii. Should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
or similar examination in 6 Subjects with 2 credit 
passess including maths and Language in one 
sitting.
 iV . (a) He should possess a valid driving Licence at 
least 5 years prior to the date mentioned in the 
application for the vehicle in the respective class 
for which he/she is applying to be registered as an 
instructor.
class ''a'' driving instructor. —Valid driving licence for 
''dE'' or ''cE'' and ''a'' class at the relevant date.
class ''b'' driving instructor .—Valid driving licence for 
''d'' or ''c'' and a class as at the relevant date
class ''c'' driving instructor. —Valid driving licience for 
''b'', ''b1'' and ''a'' class as at the relevant date.
  (b) when applying as an assistant driving 
instructor, the applicant should possess a valid 
driving Licence belonging to the above classes 
with 5 years of experience in the relevant post as at 
the date of applying.
 V . He/She should prove that he/she is physically fit 
for driving the vehicles of the relevant class and to 
train driving by way of medical certificate issued 
by a medical officer of the National Transport 
medical institute or of any other government or 
semi government institution, duly authorized by the 
commissioner General.
 Vi. He/She should not be an employee in a government 
or semi government or any other similar  institution 
other than a person conducting in training in such 
an institution.
2. 
mode of Examination :
 (i) the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium.
 (ii) all question papers should be answered in one 
language only. the candidates are not allowed to 
change the medium first applied for.
3. Subjects relevant to the examination :
this exam is comprised of a question paper containing 
2 parts on motor transport management.
 (i) motor transport management 1-duration 2 hours
 (ii) motor transport management 2 –duration 2 hours
4.Syllabus.—the two parts of this question paper 
includes questions on Motor Traffic Act, Road Rules, 
Highway code, methods of teaching and instructions, Safe 
driving,Ethics, first –aid, technical and technological 
knowledge and Road Safety. all question should be 
answered.
5.(i) 
Selection Procedure.—those who have scored at 
least 40% for each subject to be 40% of the overall exam or 
more than that will be called for an interview for checking 
qualifications. Those who have selected at the interview 
should participate in driving instructor course (Not less 
than  2 weeks) and he/she is required to sit to a practical 
test upon successfully completion of such course on giving 
instructions and training. those who have obtained 40% of 
marks in the examination will be given instructor Licence.
Applicant should pay the specified Fees for he instructor 
course.
(ii) 
Examination results.—Name of those who scored 
not  less than 40% of marks for each subject will be given 
to the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.The results 
of all candidates who appeared for the examination will be 
notified by post or through the website.www.result.exams.
gov.lk
6. 
mode of applying :-
 (a)  application should be in accordance with the 
specimen from attached to this notification and 
prepared using both sides of a4 Papers (8.27x 
11.69'') and the applicant him self should perfect 
the same. when Preparing the application, the 
name of the examination on the applications in 
Sinhala should be written in English in addition 
to Sinhala and on tamil applications the name 
of examination should be written in English in 
addition to tamil.moreover, when preparing the 
application the item No. from 1 to 7 should appear 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2889
making such inquires, it would be useful if the 
applicant is ready with the copy of the application 
kept by him/her, copy of the receipt obtained for 
payment of examination fee and receipt for the 
postal registration of the application, in order 
to confirm any information required by the 
department of Examinations.
 (a) Name of the examination :————.
 (b) candidate's full name :————.
 (c) Nic No :————.
 (d) address :————.
 (e) fax No. :————.
 (f) the date of posting the application, registered 
date and the post office :————.
 (g) money order No. :————.
 (h) the admission card in which the applicant's 
signature has been certified, should be 
forwarded to the chief Examiner at the 
Examination hall. applicants, who fail to 
forward the admission cards, will not be 
permitted to appear for the examination. 
further the applicant should abide by the rules 
and regulations set out by the commissioner 
General of Examinations with regard to 
the conduct examination. if such rules and 
regulations are violated, the applicant will 
be subjected to a punishment impose by the 
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
7. 
identity of the applicant.—in respect of every subject 
for which the applicant is appearing, identity should be 
provided at the examination hall in a manner which would 
satisfy the examiner. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents would be accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Persons Registration.
 (ii) Valid passport.
8. Regarding any matter for which provisions have not 
been made by this notice of the examination, the decision 
of the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic shall be 
final.
               Commissioner General of Motor Traffic
At the Department of Motor Traffic,
No 341,
Elvitigala mawatha,
colombo 5.
11th November 2016
on the 1
st page and the remaining to appear on the 
2nd page.
 (b) the application should be prepared in the language 
the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
 (c) appication duly perfected should be addressed 
to commissioner for Motor Traffic, Department 
of Motor Traffic, No 341, Elvitigala  Mawatha, 
colombo 5 under registered cover to reach on 
or before 02.01.2017.the left hand corner of 
the envelop should bear the legend ''Written 
Examination for Recruitment to the post of 
driving instructor''. delayed applications will not 
be entertained.
 (d) Examination fee:- Examination fee is Rs.2000 
which shall be paid at any district Secretariat 
or divisional Secretariat to be credited to the 
revenue head 6000-0000-00-00013-0027-000 of 
the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic and 
the receipt issued therefore should be affixed at 
the appropriate space provided in the application.
 (e) Signature of the applicant attested by a 
principal of a government school, Justice of the 
peace,commissioner for oaths, attorney- at law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of forces 
and an officer holding  permanent post of the 
government and drawing a basic annual salary of 
more than Rs.240,360.
 (f) Every application should be perfected in every 
respect, if not such applications will be rejected. 
complaints made on losses or delays in post 
will not be taken into consideration. Receipt of 
applications is not acknowledged.
 (g) the admission cards will not be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examination to the 
applicant who have forwarded their applications 
properly. as soon as the admission cards are 
issued, newspaper notice regarding it will be 
published by the department of Examination, 
Sri Lanka. if any applicant has not received, the 
admission card at least 5 days prior to the date on 
which the examination is to be held as mentioned 
in the newspaper notice, any inquiries regarding 
it, should be made from the organization and 
foreign Examination branch of the department 
of Examination, Sri Lanka. in making such 
inquires, the name of the examination applied 
by the applicant, applicant's full name, National 
identity card number and the address of the 
applicant should be mentioned clearly. if 
the applicant is residing outside colombo, it 
would more effective. if he/she make a written 
request indicating his/her fax No. to the fax  
No. mentioned in the newspaper notice in order 
to get a copy of the admission card speedly. in 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2890
model application
Department of motor traffic
Written Examination for the Registration of driving 
instructors -2016
l the medium applied for :- Sinhala   2
 tamil   3
 English  4
 1. (a) full Name (in English capital Letters) :——.
    ——.
    (eg : HERatH  mUdiyaNSELaGE 
  SamaN  KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
   ( b)  Name with initials, with initials at the end . 
    (in English capital Letters)
    :————. 
    (Eg: GUNaWaRdHaNa,H.m.S.K)
    ( c ) full name (in Sinhala/in tamil) :————.
 2. (a) applican't permanent address (in English   
  capital letters) :————.
   ( b) Permanent address (in Sinhala/in English)  
  :————.
   ( c) Name and address of the driving school  
  (in English capital letters) :————.
 3. National identity card No :-
 4. Sex  male – 0 (write the relevant number in  
    the box)
     female – 1 
 5. applican't age and date of birth:
  (
a) age   date of birth
 6. Educational Qualifications  :————.
 7. Experience :————.
  (Attach the confirmation documents)
 8. ( a) Examination fee is Rs. 2,000/- and affix the 
receipt here by paying examination fee. it would 
be advisable for you to keep a copy thereof with 
you.
  (
b) He/she should prove by an affidavit that he/she is 
not employed in a government, semi government 
or other similar institution other than conducting 
training for drivers. (those who have a balance 
period of six months to retire can also apply. their 
instructor license will be issued after retirement.)
 i do hereby state that the information furnished by me 
herewith is true to the best of my knowledge. further, 
i am aware that i am liable to the rules imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examination in this regard.
date :————.      
applicant's Signature.
Attestation
i do hereby certify that mr./ mrs./miss…………. is 
personally known to me and he/she has signed before me 
and that he/she has paid the due examination fee and that 
he/she has affixed the receipt thereof to the application.
   
 attester's Signature.
       
 (Place certify by official frank)
Name  :-………..
designation  :-………..
address  :-………..
date  :-………..
12-23/2
DEPARTmENT Of mOTOR TRAffIC
Written examination for the registration of 
Assistant Driving Instructors- 2016
applications are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri 
Lanka for the written exam for the registration of driving 
instructors until 02.01.2017.this exam will be conducted 
on march 2017 in colombo.
01. Qualifications: 
 i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 ii. age should not be less than 23 and not more than 
65,
 iii. Should have passed the qualifying examination 
for 8 standard or similar examination.
 iV . Should possess 3 years' experience as an 
employee in a driving school.Should produce 
written evidence inclusive of E.P.f . and E.t .f. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2891
number provided that the documents bearing 
E.P.f. No. and E.t .f. No. will not be considered 
until 20.10.2016 and acceptable documents shall 
be produced to the effect that they are serving in a 
driving school.
 V . t o be an assistant instructor,there should be a 
driving Licence at least for b,b1 and a on the 
relevant date.but, he/she should have a valid 
driving licence obtained 5 years in advance 
relevant to the vehicle classes from which  
he/she obtained experience as an employee in a 
driving school.in the case of an application for an 
assistant driving instructor, the applicant should 
possess a valid driving Licence belonging to the 
following classes 5 years in advance of the date 
of applying.
 VI. He/She should prove that he/she is physically fit 
for driving vehicles of the relevant class and to 
train driving by way of medical certificate issued 
by a medical officer of the National Transport 
medical institute or of any other government or 
semi government institution, duly authorized by 
the commissioner General.
 Vii. He/She should not be an employee in a 
government or semi government or any other 
similar  institution other than a person engage in 
training in such an institution.
2. mode of Examination :
 (i) the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium.
 (ii) all question paper should be answered in one 
language only. the candidates are not allowed to 
change the medium first applied for.
3. Subjects relevant to the examination.
this exam is comprised of a question paper containing 
2 parts on motor transport management
 (i) motor transport management 1-duration 2 hours
 (ii) motor transport management 2–duration 2 hours
4. 
Syllabus :- the two parts of this question paper 
includes questions on Motor Traffic Act, Road Rules, 
Highway code, methods of teaching and instructions, State 
driving,Ethics, first –aid, technical and technological 
knowledge and Road Safety. all question should be 
answered.
5.(i) Selection Procedure.—those who have scored at 
least 40% for each subject to be 40% of the overall exam or 
more than that will be called for an interview for checking 
qualifications. Those who have selected at the interview 
should participate in driving instructor course (Not less 
than  2 weeks) and he/she is required to sit to a practical 
test after successfully completion of such course on giving 
instructions and training. those who have obtained 40% of 
marks in the examination will be given instructor Licence.
(ii) Examination results.—Name of those who scored 
not  less than 40% of marks for each subject will be given 
to the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.The results 
of all candidates who appeared for the examination will be 
notified by post or through the 
website.www.result.exams.gov.lk
6. mode of applying:-
 (
a) application should be in accordance with the 
specimen form attached to this notification 
and prepared using both sides of a4 Papers  
8.27''x 11.69'' and the applicant him self should perfect 
the same. when Preparing the application, the name of 
the examination on the applications in Sinhala should 
be written in English in addition to Sinhala and on 
tamil applications the name of examination should 
be written in English in addition to tamil.moreover, 
when preparing the application the item No. from 1 to 
7 should appear on the 1st page and the remaining to 
appear on the 2nd page.
 (
b) the application should be prepared in the language 
the candidate intends to sit for the examination.
 ( c) application duly perfected should be addressed to 
Commissioner for Motor Traffic, Department of 
Motor Traffic, No. 341, Elvitigala  Mawatha, Colombo 
5 under registered cover to reach on or before 
02.01.2017.the left hand corner of the envelop should 
bear the legend''Written Examination for Recruitment 
to the post of assistant driving instructor''. delayed 
applications will not be entertained.
 (
d) Examination fee.—Examination fee is Rs.2000 which 
shall be paid at any district Secretariat or divisional 
Secretariat to be credited to the revenue head 6000-
0000-00-0013-0027-000 of the commissioner 
General of Motor Traffic and the receipt issued 
therefore should be affixed at the appropriate space 
provided in the application.
 (
e) Signature of the applicant attested by a 
principal of a government school, Justice of the 
peace,commissioner for oaths, attorney- at law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of forces and 
an officer holding  permanent post of the government 
and drawing a basic annual salary of more than 
Rs.240, 360.
 (
f) Every application should be perfected in every 
respect, if not such applications will be rejected. 
complaints made on losses or delays in post will not 
be taken into consideration. Receipt of applications is 
not acknowledged.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2892
(g) the admission cards will not be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examination to the 
applicant who have forwarded their application 
properly. as soon as the admission cards are issued 
newspaper notice regarding it will be published by 
the department of Examination, Sri Lanka. if any 
applicant has not received, the admission card at least 
5 days prior to the date on which the examination 
is to be held as mentioned in the newspaper notice, 
any inquiries regarding it, should be made from the 
organization and foreign Examination branch of the 
department of Examination, Sri Lanka. in making 
such inquires, the name of the examination applied by 
the applicant, applicant's full name, National identity 
card number and the address of the applicant should 
be mentioned clearly. if the applicant is residing 
outside colombo, it would more effective. if he/she 
make a written request indicating his/her fax No. to 
the fax No. mentioned in the newspaper notice in 
order to get a copy of the admission card speedly. 
in making such inquires, it would be useful if the 
applicant is ready with the copy of the application 
kept by him/her, copy of the receipt obtained for 
payment of examination fee and receipt for the 
postal registration of the application, in order to 
confirm any information required by the Department 
of Examination.
 (
a) Name of the Examination :————.
 ( b) candidate's full name :————.
 ( c) Nic No. :————.
 ( d) address :————.
 ( e) fax No. :————.
 ( f) the date of posting the application, registered 
date and the post office :————.
 ( g) money order No. :————.
 ( h)  the admission card in which the applicant's 
signature has been certified, should be 
forwarded to the chief Examiner at the 
Examination hall. applicants, who fail to 
forward the admission cards, will not be 
permitted to appear for the examination. 
further the applicant should abide by 
the rules and regulations set out by the 
commissioner General of Examinations 
with regard to the conduct examination. if 
such rules and regulations are violated, the 
applicant will be subjected to a punishment 
impose by the commissioner General of 
Motor Traffic.
7. 
identity of the applicant.—in respect of every subject 
for which the applicant is appearing, identity should be 
provided at the examination hall in a manner which would 
satisfy the examiner. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents would be accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Persons Registration.
 (ii) Valid passport
8. Regarding any matter for which provisions have not 
been made by this notice of the examination, the decision 
of the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic shall be 
final.
 Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
At the Department of Motor Traffic,
No. 341,
Elvitigala mawatha,
colombo 5.
11
th November 2016.
model application
Department of Motor Traffic
Written Examination for the Registration of assistant 
driving insructors -2016
the medium applied for :- Sinhala  - 2
     
 tamil  - 3
     
 English - 4
1.  (a) full Name (in English capital Letters) :-
    (eg. :  HERatH  mUdiyaNSELaGE 
  SamaN  KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
   ( b)  Name with initials, with initials at the end.
    (in English capital Letters) :————. 
    (Eg: GUNaWaRdHaNa,H.m.S.K)
    ( c ) full name (in Sinhala/in tamil) :————.
 2. (a) applican't permanent address (in English   
  capital letters):
   ( b) Permanent address (in Sinhala/in English)
   ( c) Name and address of the driving school 
    (in English capital letters)
 3. National identity card No. :-

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2893
 4. Sex  male – 0 (write the relevant number in  
    the box)
     female – 1
 5. applican't age and date of birth:
  ( a) age   date of birth
 6. Educational Qualifications  :————.
 7. Experience :————.
  (Attach the confirmation documents)
 8. ( a) Examination fee is Rs.2000/- and affix the receipt 
here by paying examination fee. it would be 
advisable for you to keep a copy thereof with 
you.
  (
b) He/she should prove by an affidavit that he/she is 
not employed in a government, semi government 
or other similar institution other than conducting 
training for drivers. (those who have a balance 
period of six months to retire can also apply. their 
instructor license will be issued after retirement.)
i do hereby state that the information furnished by me 
herewith is true to the best of my knowledge. further, 
i am aware that i am liable to the rules imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examination in this regard.
date :————.      
    ————,
 applicant's Signature
attestation :
i do hereby certify that mr./ mrs./miss…………. is 
personally known to me and he/she has signed before me 
and that he/she has paid the due examination fee and that 
he/she has affixed the receipt there of to the application.
       
    ————,
 attester's Signature
      
 
(Place certify by official frank)
Name  :-………..
designation  :-………..
address  :-………..
date  :-………..
12-23/1

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2894
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIVE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIVE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'12'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.12.2016
2895
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 DECEmbER 02.12.2016 friday — 18.11.2016 friday 12 noon
  09.12.2016 friday –– 25.11.2016 friday 12 noon
  16.12.2016 friday –– 02.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  23.12.2016 friday –– 09.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  30.12.2016 friday –– 16.12.2016 friday 12 noon
2017
 JANuAR y 06.01.2017 friday — 23.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  13.01.2017 friday –– 30.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  20.01.2017 friday –– 06.01.2017 friday 12 noon
  27.01.2017 friday –– 13.01.2017 friday 12 noon
 fEbRuARy 03.02.2016 friday — 20.01.2016 friday 12 noon
  09.02.2016 thursday –– 27.01.2016 friday 12 noon
  17.02.2016 friday –– 03.02.2016 friday 12 noon
  23.02.2016 thursday –– 09.02.2016 thursday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
15th September, 2016.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.