

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 3472
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 3452 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"365 – 2023 foieïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'12'29
No. 2,365  –  fRiday,  dEcEmbER 29, 2023
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19
th January, 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th January, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
3449 - b 082527 - 5,403 (12/2023)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3450
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3451
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3452
Posts - v acant 
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ’ S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages – (kandyan/ General)
Sinhala medium
aNURadHaPURa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of births, deaths and marriages/ additional marriages for the 
Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and marriages/ additional marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society 
Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 29
th  January 2024, by registered post to the address 
given in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
on this 14th day of december, 2023.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3453
Schedule
District Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
anuradhapura mihinthale Post of births & deaths Registrar of 
mankadawala division and Post of 
marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar of 
Nuwaragam Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura.
anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of births & deaths Registrar of 
Kalagam Korale South division and Post of 
marriages (Kandyan/General) Registrar of 
Kalagam Palatha division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, anuradhapura.
12-733
_________________________________________
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths – Tamil medium
tRiNcomaLEE   diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths for the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of births and deaths division and entitled to 
reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and 
influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Tamil Language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than two (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
05. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensure respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 Under circumstances where there is no adequate office facilities provided within the hospital premises, recruited 
candidate for post of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, should be able to established his/her office at a suitable 
building located in the close proximity within 01 k.m. from the Hospital.
 06. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births and 
Deaths, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the schedule hereunder.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3454
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 30.01.2024, by registered post to the address given in 
the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
on this 13th day of december, 2023.
Schedule
District Divisional 
Secretariat
Division
Post & Division for which Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
trincomalee thambalagamam Post of births & deaths Registrar in 
mollipothana division (t amil medium)
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, trincomalee.
12-734
_________________________________________
mINISTR y  Of WOmEN , ChILD  Aff AIRS  AND  SOCIAL  EmPOWERmENT  DEPARTmENT  Of 
SOCIAL  SER vICES  SIGN  LANGuAGE  INTERPRETER  (GRADE  III) vOCATIONAL  INSTRuCTOR  
(GRADE  III) mATRON  (GRADE  III)
Applications are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the qualifications stipulated here under for the recruitment 
to be made for 10 Posts of Sign Language interpreters, 10 Posts of V ocational instructors and 05 Posts of matron for the 
Department of Social Services. Prepared applications  according to the format given at the end of this notification should  
be sent by registered post to the director, department of Social Services, Second floor, Sethsiripaya Stage ii, battaramulla 
to reach before the 25. 01. 2024. the top left hand corner of the  envelope should clearly carry the words "Recruitment to 
the Posts of Sign Language interpreters (Grade iii) / V ocational instructors (Grade iii) / matrons (Grade iii)". Specimen 
application form and details could also be obtained through the web site; www.socialservices.gov.lk
Qualifications for the recruitment of this post :-
1. Sign Language Interpreter
1.1 Open Recruitments 
1.1.1 Age Limit :-
the age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years to the closing date of the applications
1.1.2 Educational Qualifications
(a) Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examinational with six (06) 
subjects including 4 credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and other two subjects and.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3455
and
(b) Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination in all subjects 
with one sitting (Excluding common General test)
(it is adequate if the Candidate passed three subjects (03) in one sitting under the Old Syllabus)
1.1.3 Professional Qualifications :-
 S hould be obtained One year Diploma Certificate on Sign Language Interpretation conducted by the National 
institute of Education (NiE) or
 One Year Diploma Certificate on Sign Language Interpretation conducted by the National Institute of Social 
development (NiSd), or
 Diploma Certificate in Sign  Language Interpretation of not less than one year duration conducted by an 
institution registered under the teritary and V ocational Education commission.
1.1.4 experience  :-
  Not applicable.
1.1.5 Physical Qualifications :-
 all the applicants should be of excellent physical and mental character to perform the duty at any part of  
Sri Lanka.
1.1.6 Other :-
 i. the applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ii. Should be of excellent character
 iii. All the qualifications required to the recruitment to the post should be fulfilled to the date on which the 
notification/ gazette  for calling applications mentioned.
1.1.7 Recruitment Procudure :-
 candidates will be recruited on the basis of the results at the written and vocational test.
1.1.7.1 Written Test :-
 
Subjects Time Maximum number of 
marks
Passed number  of 
marks
intelligence test time 01  hour 100 40
Language skills time 01  hour 100 40
 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3456
1.1.7.2  Professional  Test  :- testing the practical knowledge on sign language
Subjects Time Maximum number  of 
marks
Passed number of 
marks
testing the practical
knowledge on sign  
language
time 01 hour 100 40
1.1.8 General   Interview :  Certificate   are  tested  to   check   whether   the prescribed qualifications are fulfilled   
for the post (no marks will be  given.)
1.1.9. Salary Scale :-
 in acordance with the Public administration circular No. 03/2016, mN 02-2016 will be applied.
 Salary Scale Rs .28,940-10x300-11x350-10x560-10x660-47,990/=.  
1.1.10 Note :-
candidates will be recruited on the basis of the merit at the  written  and  professional test. the written test 
will be held at first. A number  equal  to  two  times  existing vacancies will be called for the professional 
test from among the candidates who obtained highest marks at the written test and the general interview will 
be held at the same time. The candidates, those  who  are qualified from the general  interview,  equal to the 
number of vacancies are selected to the existing posts on the basis of the aggregate marks scored at both 
written test and professional  test.
1.1.11. Regulations on employment  :-
this post is permanent and pensionable and it is required to contribute to the widows'/ widowers' and 
orphans' Pension fund. in accordance with the Public administration circular No. 1/2014 and other circulars 
incidental thereto, those who are appointed to the post should be acquire proficiency in the prescribed official 
language within five (5) from the  date  of appointment.
1.2 Limited recruitments
1.2.1 Educational Qualifications : - Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
Examination with six (06) subjects including 4 credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and 
other two subjects in not more than two sittings.
1.2.2 Professional qualifications -
Should  be  obtained  One  Year Diploma  Certificate  on  Sign  Language   Interpretation conducted by the 
National institute of Education (NiE), or
One Year Diploma Certificate on Sign Language Interpretation conducted by the National Institute of Social 
development (NiSd) or
Diploma Certificate in Sign Language interpretation of not less than one year duration conducted by an 
institution registered under the tertiary and V ocational Education commission.
1.2.3 experience  - completion of not less than 05 years of active and satisfactory service in the post of attendant 
or matron in the department of Social Services.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3457
1.2.4 Physical  Qualifications :-
 all the applicants should be of excellent physical and mental character  to  perform  the duty at any part of 
Sri Lanka.
1.2.5 Others :-
 i. Should have confirmed in the post.
 ii. Completion of satisfactory service within a period of five (05) years preceding the date to which the 
qualifications are fulfilled.
 iii. All qualifications required for recruitment to the post should be completed in all aspects as on the date 
specified in the notification/Gazette calling for applications.
1.2.6 Age - Not applicable
1.2.7  Recruitment Procedure - candidates will be recruited on the basis of the results at the written and vocational 
test.
1.2.7.1. Written Test :-
Subjects Time Maximum number of 
marks
Passed number of 
marks
intelligence test time 01 hour 100 40
Language skills time 01 hour 100 40
1.2.7.2. Professional Test :-
  
Subjects Time Maximum number of 
marks
Passed number of 
marks
testing the practical 
knowledge on Sign 
Language
01 hour 100 40
1.2.8 General Interview  :-
General Interview : Certificate are tested to check whether the prescribed qualifications are fulfilled  for the 
post (no marks will be given.)
1.2.9. Note :-
 candidates will be recruited on the basis of the merit at the  written  and  professional test. the written test 
will be held at first. A number  equal  to  two  times  existing vacancies will be called for the professional 
test from among the candidates who obtained highest marks at the written test and the general interview will 
be held at the same time. The  candidates, those  who  are qualified from the general  interview, equal to the 
number of vacancies are selected to the existing posts on the basis of the aggregate marks scored at both 
written test and professional  test.
1.2.10. Regulations on employment :-
this post is permanent and pensionable and it is required to contribute to the widows'/ widowers' and 
orphans' Pension fund. in accordance with the Public administration circular No. 1/2014 and other circulars 
incidental thereto, those who are appointed to the post should be acquire proficiency in the prescribed official 
language within five (5) from the  date of  appointment.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3458
2. Vocational Instructor :- (food technology, computer, Handicrafts industry, Plumbing technology, mobile Phone 
Repair, Sales assistant, Graphic designing, caregivers Service)
2.1 Age Limit :-
 the age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years to the closing date of the applications.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :-
 (a) Educational Qualifications for the post of V ocational Instructor (Food Technology) 
   Should have passed Generl Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination with 06 subjects including 4 
credit passes for Sinhala/ Tamil/ Language, Mathematics and other two subjects.
 (b) Educational Qualifications for the post of V ocational Instructor Computer, Handicrafts, Plumbing Technology, 
mobile Phone Repair, Sales assistant, Graphic designing, caregivers Service).
  (i) Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination with 06 subjects 
including 4 credit passes for Sinhala/ Tamil/ Language, Mathematics and other two subjects and
  (ii) Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination with all subjects 
under any subject stream (Excluding Common General Test) and obtained the required achievement 
level for following a tertiary educational program.
2.3 Professional Qualifications :-
 Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course from the Ceylon 
technical college or the ceylon - German technical training institute.
or
 Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course from the Department 
of Small industries or the department of textile industries.
or
 Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course conducted by the 
Department of Social Services or the National Youth Service Council or the affiliated institutions.
or
Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course conducted by the 
V ocational Training Authority or the affiliated institutions
or
Should be obtained a certificate having successfully followed a relevant technical course recognized  by  a  the Tertiary  
and  V ocational  Education  Commission  to  be  included   into the National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) level 
five (05) or a similar course recognized by a the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission
2.4. experience  :-
Not  applicable
2.5. Physical Qualifications :-
 all the applicants should be of excellent physical and mental character to  perform the  duty at any part of Sri Lanka.
2.6. Other :-
 i the applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 ii Should be of excellent character

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3459
 iii. All the qualifications required to the recruitment to the post from 1.1 to 1.6 should be fulfilled to the date 
on which the notification/ Gazette for calling applications  mentioned
2.7. Recruitment Procedure :-
 candidates will be recruited on the basis of the merit at the written and professional test. the written test will be 
held at first. A number equal to two times existing vacancies will be called for the general interview from among 
the candidates who obtained highest  marks  at the written test. Those who are qualified from the general interview 
only will be forwarded to the professional test. the candidates equal to the number of vacancies are  selected  to the 
training course on the basis of the aggregate marks scored at both written test and professional test .the Selected 
candidates should be obtained a certificate following the successful completion of the 3 months training course on the 
teaching methods. Only the candidates who obtain the certificates in the manner described above will be recruited.
2.7.1 Written Test :-
Subjects Time Total Marks Pass marks
intelligence t est 01 hour 100 40%
comprehension 02 hour 100 40%
2.8. Salary Scale  :-
 mt - 01-2016, in terms of P ac. 03/2016,
 Salary Scale Rs.  29,840-10x300-11x350-10x560-10x660- Rs. 48,890/=
2.9. Regulations on employment  :-
This  post  is permanent  and  pensionable. Selected  candidates  will  be subjected  to the policy  decision  taken  
by  the  Government  in the  future  with  regard  to  the  method  of pension  which  is  entitled  to  them  and  it  is  
required  to  contribute  to  the  widows'/ widowers'   and  orphans'  Pension  fund.  in  accordance  with  the  Public  
administration circular No. 1/2014 and other circulars incidental thereto, those who are appointed to the post should 
be acquire proficiency in the prescribed official language within five (5) from the date of appointment.
2.10. Note
 • the Witten test will be held in colombo by an institution decided  by the  director  of Social Services.
 • Only candidates who have fulfilled the above qualifications should apply  and  the selected candidates will be 
eligible for annual transfer only after five  years  of compulsory service in the institution with the respective 
vacancies.
3. matron
3.1 Age Limit :-
 the age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years to the closing date of the applications
3.2 Education Qualifications :-
 (a) Should have passed  General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examinational with six 06 subjects 
including 4 credit passes for Sinhala/ Tamil/ English, Mathematics and other two subjects and

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3460
(b) Should have passed General certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination minimum of one subject
under any subject stream (Excluding Common General Test)
3.3 Professional Qualifications :-
Having completed a course of not less than three months in child development or Social Work or Hostel management 
from a government registered institution and obtained a certificate.
3.4  e xperience  :-
Not applicable.
3.5  Physical Qualifications :-
 all the applicants should be of excellent physical and mental character to perform the duty at any part of Sri Lanka.
3.6  Other  :-
i.  t he applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
ii. Should be of excellent character
iii. All the qualifications required to the recruitment to the  post  from  2.1 to  2.6 should be fulfilled to the date on
which the notification/ Gazette for calling applications mentioned
3.7  Recruitment Pr ocedure :-
candidates equal to the exiting vacancies will be recruited on the basis of the maximum marks obtained for two 
written   papers.
3.7.1  W ritten Test :-
 i. i ntelligence test - time 01 Hour , total  marks 100, Pass marks 40%
II. Language  Proficiency    - Time 01 Hour, Total  Marks  100, Pass Marks 40%
3.8.  Salary Scale  :-
mN 01-2016 in accordance with 03/2016
Salary Scale - Rs. 27, 140/- 10X300-11X350-10X495-10X660- Rs. 45,540/-.
3.9. Regulations on e mployment  :-
This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected candidates will be subjected to the policy decision taken by the 
Government in the future with regard to the method  of pension  which  is  entitled  to  them  and  it  is  required  to  
contribute  to  the widows'/ widowers' and orphans' Pension  fund.  in  accordance  with  the  Public administration 
circular No. 1/2014 and other circulars incidental there to those who are appointed to the post should be acquire 
proficiency in the prescribed official language within five (5) from the date of appointment.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3461
3.10. Note
 • the Witten test will be held in colombo by an institution decided  by the  director  of Social Services.
 • Only candidates who have fulfilled the above qualifications should apply  and  the selected candidates will be 
eligible for annual transfer only after five  years  of compulsory service in the institution with the respective 
vacancies.
    W. G. D. Karunarathna,
    director of Social Services (covering of duties).
department of Social Services,
2 floor,
Stage ii,
Sethsiripaya,
battaramulla.
18th december, 2023.
A PPLICATION  f OR m f OR  T h E  RECR u IT m ENT  TO  T h E  POST  O f .......................................
  medium of Language
1. Name with initials :- ……………………………………………………………………………………………
2. Name denoted by initials :- ……………………………………………………………………………………
3. address :- ………………………………………………………………………………………………………
04. t elephone   Number   : - ………………………………………………………………………………………
05. National identity card Number :- ………………………………………………………………………………
06. date of birth :- …………………………………………………………………………………………………
07. age as at the closing date of the applications : - age :- ……… months : - ……… days :- ……… 
08. marital Status :- ………………………………………………………………………………………………
09. Sex :- ……………………………………………………………
10. Education Qualifications :
i.   G. c. E. (ordinary Level )
 y ear :- …………… Examination Number :- ……………

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3462
 
Subjects Grades Subjects Grades
mathematics
Sinhala/tamil/ 
English
ii.   G. c. E. (advanced Level )
 y ear :- …………… Examination Number :- ……………
 
Subjects Grades Subjects Grades
11. Professional and other qualifications :-
 
Name of the course institute duration of the course
12. Experience :-
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 i herewith certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
  …………………………,
  Signature of the applicant.
12-650

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3463
SRI   LANkA   NAvy
Vacancies in The Sri Lanka Navy - Regular/ Volunteer Naval Force Direct Entry Officers 
(male/female) - 2023
1. Vacancies are existed in the Sri Lanka Navy (Regular/ V olunteer Naval Force) for Male/ Female officers.
2. Applications are invited from Male/ Female candidates possessing the qualifications for following branches.
 a. Executive (Regular)
 b. marine Engineering 
 c. Logistics 
 d. Electrical & Electronic Engineering 
 e. Medical (Administrative Officer Health) 
 f. dental 
 g. information t echnology 
 h. Executive (V olunteer)
 j. Agriculture (V olunteer)
 k. English instructor (V olunteer)
 l. Account Officer (V olunteer)
3. Basic Education qualifications.
a. Should have passed six subjects including Mathematics in GCE (O/L) Examination with credit (C) passes for 
mother tongue and English.
    or
b. Should have passed six subjects including Mathematics and English in GCE (O/L) Examination with credit (C) 
pass for mother tongue and possess with a diploma in English
4. Higher Educational and Professional Qualifications. 
a. EXEcUtiVE bRaNcH - (Regular)
Rank - Sub Lieutenant (male)
Qualifications - A General Degree in Science from a recognized University in Sri Lanka. 
age - below 30 years
b. maRiNE ENGiNEERiNG bRaNcH  - (Regular)
Rank - Lieutenant 
Qualifications - Should have passed GCE A/L from Mathematics stream including 02 Credit (C) passes 
   and
  04 years degree in the discipline of marine or mechanical Engineering from foreign 
or local recognized university/institute approved by university Grant commission-Sri 
Lanka. 
age - below 32 years
c. LOGISTICS bRANCh  - (Regular) 
Rank - Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3464
Qualifications - Special Degree in Business Administration, Financial Management Commerce, 
accountancy, business Economics, Estate management and Valuation from a 
recognized University in Sri Lanka.
   
age - below 30 years
 d. DENTAL bRANCh -  (Regular)
(1) Dental Student Officer
(a) midshipman (male/ female)
 Qualifications - Successful completion of the 1 st , 2 nd , 3 rd  and 4 th  semesters or 1 st  bdS 
examination and studying in the 03 rd  year bdS course.
  age - below 28 years
(b) Acting Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications - Successful completion of 5th  and 6 th , semesters or 2 nd  bdS examination and 
studying in the 04 th  year bdS course
 age - below 30 years
(c) Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications - Successful completion of 7th  and 8 th  semester or final  BDS part 1 examination 
and studying in the final year BDS course.
 age - below 35 years
(2) Dental Officer ( Regular )
(a) Surgeon Lieutenant (D) (male/ female)
 Qualifications - BDS or equivalent qualification with permanent registration at the Sri Lanka 
medical council (SLmc).     
 age - below 35 years
e. ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING bRANCh  – (Regular)
 
(1) Sub Lieutenant ( male/ female)
 Qualifications - Four years engineering degree from UGC recognized university in Electrical/ 
Electronic/ telecommunication/ mechatronic disciplines.
   
 age - below 30 years
(2) Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications - Four years engineering degree from a UGC recognized university in 
Electrical/ Electronic/ telecommunication/ mechatronic disciplines with 
EcSL registration as an  associate engineer.
   
age  - below 32 years

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3465
f. MEDICAL BRANCH (Administrative Officer Health) - (Regular) 
(1) Acting Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications - Bachelor degree in nursing or paramedical scheme from a university 
recognized by University Grants commission. 
   
 age - below 32 years
(2) Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications - Bachelor degree in nursing or paramedical scheme from a university 
recognized by University Grants commission.
     and
   Minimum 01 Year working experience in a hospital or medical related field.
   
 age - below 32 years
g. INfORmATION TEChNOLOGy  OffICER - (Regular) 
(1) Acting Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications - Global recognized qualification such as Red hat certified engineering or Sun 
Solaris certified or certified ethical hacker.
 age - below 32 years
(2) Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
   
 Qualifications                   - 03 years bachelor degree in Information Technology or Computer Science from 
a recognized university/ institute or equallent qualification from a university 
/ institute by recognized University Grants commission.           
  
    Minimum 12 months experience in IT field.  
 
 age - below 32 year
h. EXECuTIvE OffICER (v olunteer)
 Rank - acting Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications - A general degree from a university recognized by University Grant 
commission in Sri Lanka.
 age - below 30 years
j. AGRICuLTuRE OffICER (v olunteer)
 Rank - Sub Lieutenant (male)
 Qualifications                   - A special degree or general degree in agriculture science from a recognized 
university. 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3466
       Working experience of relevant field is considered as an additional 
qualification.
  
 age - below 30 years 
k. ENGLISh INSTRuCTOR - (v olunteer)
Rank - Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
Qualifications - Bachelor degree in recognized university for English language with 
minimum 03 years English language teaching experiences in government 
or recognized private institution.
     or
  diploma in English language at teaching training School with minimum 
03 year English language teaching experiences in government or recognized 
private institution. 
  
age - below 35 years
l. ACCOuNT OffICER - (v olunteer)
 Rank - Sub Lieutenant (male/ female)
 Qualifications                    - Bachelor degree in for accountancy or business administration from a 
recognized university 
 age - below 30 years
5. other Requirements:
Candidates should fulfil following general conditions for the enlistment to the Sri Lanka V olunteer Naval Force;
a. Nationality  - must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
b. age  - Should be as indicated for relevant branches as at closing date.
c. Height  - male - should not be less than 66 inches.
  -  female - should not be less than 63 inches.
d. Weight - male - should not be less than 52 kg.
   female - should not be less than 41 kg.
e. chest - male - should not be less than 32 inches.
f. colour vision - Std ii.
g. Visual acuity - (1) distant vision by Snellen test chart 6/6 in both eyes without lenses.
   (2) distant vision 6/12 corrected to 6/6 with lenses may be considered for direct 
entry candidates for medical, and Logistics branches. 
 
h. civil status  - married/ Unmarried 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3467
6. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports and special consideration will be 
given to candidates who are already employed in government/ Private sector.  
7. Applications of candidates who do not fulfil theaforesaid requirements of paragraph 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival 
for the first interview height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight are below 
the standards specified in the 
Gazette  Notification will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a special skill 
or value to the naval service may be considered at the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy even though 
the candidate may not have the requisite height and age.
8. Conditions of service;
a. Candidates will be enlisted in to the Sri Lanka Regular/ V olunteer Naval Force as male/ female officers and will 
undergo basic training. the duration of the course will depend on the branch for which the enlistment is made.
b. Enlisted male/ female officers will be required to undergo training at any place in Sri Lanka orabroad as decided 
by the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy.
c. Male/ female officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any country of the world at any time.
d. Male/ female officers will be subjected to Naval Law during the period of training and thereafter.
e. In the event a male/ female officer voluntarily terminates his/ her candidature during the training, he/ she will 
be required to refund to the government of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the government 
of Sri Lanka on account of such male/ female officer.
f. If at any time during the period of training a male/ female officer is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable 
for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/ her control to qualify for the commission, he/ she will be 
required to refund to the Sri Lanka Navy all expenses carried on his/ her training and will be required to enter 
into an agreement and a bond to this effect with the Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy acting on behalf of the 
government of Sri Lanka.
g. During the period of training, male/ female officers will be provided with food and accommodation by the 
wardrooms of the Sri Lanka Navy.
h. Married male/ female officers may be provided with married quarters if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants.
9. Official language requirements:
the selected candidates will be required to comply with regulations and articles already made or may hereafter be made 
for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.
10.  Pay and allowances 
 
The payments will be made with effect from 01.01.2020 as per the Management Services Circular No. 03/2016.
DESCRIPTION mIDShIPmEN
(Rs.)
ACTING Sub 
LIEuTENANT
(Rs.)
Sub 
LIEuTENANT
(Rs.)
LIEuTENANT
(Rs.)
LIEuTENANT 
COmmANDER
(Rs.)
basic salary 32,750.00 41,905.00 47,615.00 55,625.00 60,965.00
cost of living 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00
Uniform 
allowance
525.00 525.00 525.00 525.00 525.00

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3468
DESCRIPTION mIDShIPmEN
(Rs.)
ACTING Sub 
LIEuTENANT
(Rs.)
Sub 
LIEuTENANT
(Rs.)
LIEuTENANT
(Rs.)
LIEuTENANT 
COmmANDER
(Rs.)
Hard line 
allowance
- 600.00 600.00 600.00 600.00
additional
allowance
1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00
Special 
adjustment 
allowance
3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00
interim  
allowance 2022
5,000.00 5,000.00 5,000.00 5,000.00 5,000.00
Ration money 34,846.80 34,846.80 34,846.80 34,846.80 34,846.80
Total 84,921.80 94,676.80 100,386.80 108,396.80 113,736.80
a. Ration money allowance will be given only to male/female officers who are victual out.
b. Qualification pay, where applicable, will be given up to a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month.
c. Three sets of Holiday Railway Warrants per year will be issued (for a male/ female officer, spouse, children and 
dependents if applicable).
d. Duty Railway Warrants will be issued or imbursement of bus fare for officers living in to visit their homes once 
a month.
e. Uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free of charge.
f. Medical facilities will be provided free of charge (For a male/ female officer, spouse, children and dependents 
if applicable).
g. Married male/ female officers who do not occupy government married quarters, will be entitled to a rent 
allowance of Rs. 3,200.00 to Rs. 7,700.00.
11.  instructions to candidates:
 a. applications should be in the form of the specimen given below and should be completed clearly in detail in 
the applicant’s own handwriting. Duly completed applications should be forwarded to ‘Senior Staff Officer 
(Recruiting), Sri Lanka Navy Headquarters, P.o. box 593, colombo-01’ under registered cover on or before 
1200hrs on 05th february 2024. the top left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear 
‘Direct Entry 02/2023 - Regular/ Volunteer male/ female officers’. further applications which are forwarded 
via registered post should be applied through online system in the same. applications which are not forwarded 
in both ways, applications received after the closing date and time and applications that do not comply with the 
requirements stipulated in the 
Gazette  Notification will not be entertained. For further information please visit 
the website www.navy.lk or call 011-7195120/ 011-7195154.
 
 b. candidates who are in government service (departments/ corporations/ boards/ civil establishments) should 
forward their applications through the Heads of departments (departments/ corporations/ boards/ civil 
establishments) with a certificate that the candidate will be released if selected.
 c. candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents in the interview or any other 
occasion and certified copies of the following documents when forwarding the applications.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3469
(1) Certificate of registration of birth.
(2) Certificates of educational/ higher educational/ professional educational/ degree qualifications required 
for the branch applied for.
(3) School leaving certificate and character certificate obtained from school.
(4) Grama Niladhari certificate obtained within six months.
(5) Certificates of professional/ Technical experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(6) Two recent character certificates (From responsible person who knows the applicant for more than two 
years or the present employer).
(7) Certificates of sports activities and other qualifications. 
 d.  applications of candidates who fail to produce the aforesaid documents when requested will not be considered.
 e.  original copies of documents should not be enclosed with the application.
 f.  The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for the loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application.
12.  Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification or 
dismissal when the false statement is revealed before the selection or after the selection respectively.
13. Selection interviews
 
 a. Candidates who fulfil the above requirements should undergo a preliminary medical test conducted by the Sri 
Lanka Navy. candidates those who pass will be required to undergo a Physical Endurance test as mentioned 
below.
 
 b. Requirements to pass the Physical Endurance Test;
SEX PuSh uPS (WIThIN 1 
mINS)
CuRL uPS
(WIThIN 1 mINS)
1600m RuN 
(mINuTES)
male 12 12 09
female 08 07 11 
 c. only the candidates who successfully complete the Physical Endurance test will be called for the second 
interview and those who passed the second interview will be called for full medical examination. the candidates 
passed full medical examination will be called for the final interview and the candidates who obtained the 
highest marks from the respective branches will be selected according to the vacancies available.
 d. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
 e. candidates who were selected for the interviews will be informed of the date, time and place of such interviews 
only through Whatsapp and no information will be sent in writing by post. travelling or other expenses will not 
be paid in this respect.
 f. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview, he/ she should produce his/ her National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 g. Candidates likely to be qualified after the final interview will be required to present themselves before a Sri 
Lanka Navy medical board.
 h. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him/ her a testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3470
 j. Validity of the certificates of educational and professional qualifications produced by the candidates will be 
verified in coordination with the Department of Examinations.
 k. Reports on security clearance of all candidates will be subjected to re-examination by the Navy Headquarters. 
Note:  this Gazette  Notification is published in Sinhala, English and Tamil. In the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala and English texts of this Gazette  Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
       UVmP PERERa, RSP**, USP, ndu, psc   
       Vice admiral
       commander of the Sri Lanka Navy.
 
Sri Lanka Navy Headquarters,
P.o. box 593,
colombo 01.
APPLICATION  fOR  mALE /  fEmALE  OffICERS  IN  ThE  SRI  LANkA  NAvy -  vOLuNTEER  NAvAL 
fORCE
 1. Nationality: ……………………………………....................……………………………………..….
  (state whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if registration, quote number and date of the 
certificate)
 2. branch/ post applied for: ……...............…………………………………...........…………………...
 3. full name (as per the National identity card): …......................……………………………………..
 4. National identity card number: …………………….........................………………………………..
 5. Permanent address: ………………………………........................…………………………………..
 6. Postal address: ……………………………........................………………………………………….
 7. E-mail address: ……………….......................……………………………………………………….
 8. date of birth: .......................………………………………………………………………………….
 9.  age: y ears ….....…….. months ……........…… days …..............……… (as at ..... ................)
 10. Height:………….....(inches) chest:……...........…..(inches) Weight:…………............(kg.)
 11. Nearest Police Station to permanent address: …...................……………………………………….
 12. district: ………………………….....................……………………………………………………..
 13. Electorate: ………………………......................…………………………………………………….
 14. Grama Niladhari division: …....................……………………………………………….……….
 15.  t elephone number: ……………......................… (Whatsapp) Number    ………………………..
 16.  civil status:……………....................………………………………………………………………
 17.  Gender:……....................…………………………………………………………………………..
 18.  Schools attended: ……......................……………………………………………………………….
 19.  Particulars of school or university attended: ………….......................……………………………..

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3471
NAmE Of  ThE SChOOL /
uNIvERSITy
TyPE Of  
EXAmINATION
yEAR Of  
EXAmINATION
SubJECTS PASSED 
(INCLuDING GRADING)
G.c.E (o/L)
G.c.E (a/L)
other
20.  Particulars of employment since leaving school/ university (if applicable):
NAmE & ADDRESS Of  
EmPLOyER
NATuRE Of  
EmPLOymENT
PERIOD Of  SERvICE
TO fROm
 21. Particulars of parents:
fuLL NAmE PLACE Of  bIRTh OCCuPATION PRESENT ADDRESS
father
mother
 22. Any special qualification for the post: …...................………………………………………………
 23.  details of available achievements in sports. (give details of competitions and sports teams participated in with 
dates and achievements): ……............................................................................
 24. other achievements at school/ university or in outside organizations. (give details with dates/ years etc):………
…………………………........................................……….…………………...................
 25. any previous service in the armed forces or V olunteer force, cadet corps or boy Scouts association: …………
…………………………............................…………………………………
 
 26. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy or any of the Armed Services or Police ? If so give details and 
the outcome of such applications:…....................................……............................................................................
        ....…………………..……………………………………………………................................................................
 27.  Have you had a conviction or received a suspended sentence by a civil or military court ? If so Give details: 
…………………………………………………………………………………………........................................
 28.  Have you employed in a government department/ board/ corporation/ establishment of public service (including 
the Central Bank/ state banks/ universities/ civil organizations/ companies controlled by the government etc...)? 
if so give details reasons for termination of employment. …………………….........................……………………
……………………………........................................................................................................................................
 29. Particulars of testimonials:
NAmE DESIGNATION POSTAL ADDRESS
 30. declaration to be signed by the applicant:
  i declare on my honour that aforesaid details given by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the regulations which will apply in 
respect of those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Navy published in the Gazette  of 
the Government of Sri Lanka.
 …………………………… ……………………………   
 date Signature of applicant. 
12-738

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3472
mINISTR y   Of  TOuRISm  AND  LAND  SuR vEy   DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Map Technological Officer (Training 
Grade) in Sri Lanka Technological Service – 2023
1.0 applications are invited from eligible of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination held for recruitment 
of 39 vacancies remain in the post of Map Technological Officer in Sri Lanka Technological Service in Survey 
department.
 1.1 designation - Map Technological Officer (Training Grade)
 1.2 Nature of duties of posts
  data processing in thematic maps, topographical maps, and other maps, data entry into databases,
 map 
production using databases, other mapping - related technical activities including revision,  quality control, 
sales, office preliminary and final activities on surveys, issuance of copies of plans to the public, maintaining 
the documents related thereto, preparation of progress reports and works  on  surveying data bases.
2.0 Salary :
Grade Salary Scale
training Grade first year allowance  monthly Rs.27, 140 I -
Second year allowance monthly Rs.27,440 I -
(as per provisions in schedule V of P a  circular 03/2016)
Grade iii monthly Rs.31,040 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 -10 x 730 -  10 x 750 - Rs.57,550
(mN3 - 2016)
Grade ii monthly Rs.31,040 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 -10 x 730 -  10 x 750 - Rs.57,550
(initiating from the 12th Salary step) (mN3 - 2016)
Grade i monthly Rs.31,040 - 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 -10 x 730 -10 x 750 - Rs.57,550
(Starting with the 23 rd salary step) 
(mN3 - 2016)
Special Grade monthly Rs.41,580 - 11 x 755 - 18 x 1,030 - Rs.68,425
(mN 7 - 2016)
3.0 Service Conditions of the post:
3.1 Candidates recruited to the training grade will be appointed to the post of Map Technological Officer in grade 
iii of Sri Lanka t echnological Service after passing the t wo year Higher diploma in cartography with 
theoretical and practical training conducted by the institute of Surveying and mapping- diyatalawa.
3.2 Post of Map Technological Officer in grde III of Sri Lanka Technological Service is permanent and 
pensionable and shall be subject to policy decisions taken by the government in future regarding the pension 
fund. further, you shall contribute to the widows' and orphan's pension fund. you shall pay contributions to 
this fund as declared by the Government from time to time
3.3 Appointment in Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service is subject to a probation period of 03 years.
3.4 Candidates who selected to the post of Map Technological Officer should be ready to serve in any part of the 
island.
3.5 Selected candidates are subject to general conditions applicable to appointments to the public service 
specified at the beginning of this gazette notification, Establishment Code, Financial Regulations and the 
Service minute of Sri Lanka t echnological Service and amendments made thereto from time to time, and 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3473
other terms and regulations that has been issued and will be issued by the government regarding of the public 
service.
3.6 The officers who joined the service in a language other than official language shall obtain prescribed official 
language proficiency within the probationary period.
3.7 Other official language proficiency shall be obtained in terms of the Provisions of Public Administration 
circular No. 18/2020.provisions  of  Public
3.8 Credit level proficiency of G.C.E.(O/L) in link language of English  should be  obtained  before expiry of 5 
years in grade iii.
3.9 an agreement should be entered into with the Surveyor General that the two years training will be 
fully completed, that serve in the department for six (06) years after two year training and prior to the 
commencement of the training, a bond with the attestation of two guarantors recognized by the department 
should be written and signed that the amount of Rs.150,000.00, the money spent by the government for the 
training, is paid to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka if he/she leaves the training after the date 
of commencement of the training or if he/she fails to serve the contractual period in the department.
4.0 Qualifications :
 4.1   Educational Qualifications :
 Should have passed the G.C.E.(A/L) examination in three subjects from Science/Mathematics/Technology 
Subject Stream in one sitting with two subjects of Combined Mathematics and Physics.
and
 Should have passed the G.C.E.(O/L) examination in six (06) subjects in one sitting with credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics and for one more subject.
4.2 Physical fitness
 Every candidate should have physically and mentally fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and carry 
out duties of the post.
4.3 Other
 i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii) Should be of excellent character.
 iii) any person ordains in any religious denomination, will not be eligible to sit for the examination.
 iV) Only if the applicant has completed all the qualifications and prescribed age limit in all respects as 
at the date mentioned in the notice calling for application, it is accepted that all the qualifications 
required to sit for the competitive examination for recruitment to the service have been fulfilled.
5.0 Age
5.1 minimum limit - Not less than 18 years 
5.2 maximum limit - Not  more than  30 years
6.0 method of recruitment to the training grade.
 Recruitments will be made on the results of a written examination and general interview conducted by the Surveyor 
General. Eligible candidates will be  Selected by callineg a number equal to the number  expected to be recruited 
for a general interview based on the order of merits of total marks of candidates who have passed the written 
examination.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3474
6.1 Written Examination
 The examination is a written test comprised of two subjects. This examination will be held  in Sinhala, Tamil 
and English mediums and the medium applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently.
Subjects Total marks that can 
be obtained
Minimum percentage 
required to pass
Time
intelligence  test 100 40% 01 hour
Subject  Related 
technological   Paper
100 40% 02 hours
6.1.1 Syllabus
i. intelligence test
 Consist of questions to judge the rationality of thinking, analytical ability of thinking and 
decision making- ability of the candidate.
II. Subject related technological paper 
 mathematics
• Algebra (inequalities, variab1es, series, logarithms)
• Trigonometry (equations, solving of triangles)
• Statistics (mean, mode, standard deviation, probability)
 Physics
• Light and optics (reflection and refraction, mirrors, curved surfaces, prisms, lenses formulas 
in optics, microscope and telescope)
• Newtonian mechanics (scalar and vector, Newton's law of motion, momentum)
miscellaneous topics
• Introduction to geography (shape of the earth, topography etc...)
• The angle view of solid substances and derivation of projections
6.2 General interview
An interview will be held only to ascertain the qualifications no marks will be given for the interview.
7.0 Recruitment to the grade III at the end of the training period.
1. the candidates those who are selected to the training grade will be recruited to the grade iii, after submission 
of the certificate issued for passing the examination conducted by the Institute of Surveying and Mapping-
diyathalawa, after successfully completion of two y ear Higher diploma in cartography conducted by the 
same
2. apprentices  who fail to pass the examination  held  at the end of the training  have the opportunity to  get 
their training period  extended for a period not exceeding  6 months. the post  of the apprentices who fail to 
pass the repeat exam held at the end of the Period so extended will be terminated.
8.0 Preparation and completion of Applications
8 .1  application should be prepared in compliance with the specimen appearing at the end of this notice using 
both sides of a 21x29 sized paper (a4) by the applicant himself/herself. the application should be prepared 
so as to include heads from 01 to 4.3 on the first page, heads from 05 - 11.3 on the second page and heads 
from 12 - 14 on the page 03.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3475
8.2 applications should be in the same medium applied for the  examination  and  since the  medium applied for 
will not be allowed to change subsequently, they should be completed correctly.
8.3 in addition to the name of the examination mentioned in the head in applications  submitted in Sinhala and 
tamil languages, it should also be in English language
8.4 applicant'signature should have been attested in the application. an applicant applying thought an institution 
should get his signature attested by either the head of the institution or any officer authorized by him. The 
other applicants should get their signature attested by a Principal of a Government School, Justice of Peace, 
Commissioner for Oaths, Notary  Public,  Commissioned officer in the Three  Force an officer holding 
gazetted post in the Police Service, or an officer holding a permanent post in public service in tertiary or 
senior level as per the grading of Public administration circular No. 06/2006.
 N.b.: the examination center applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently.
9.0 Acceptance of applications and issuance of admissions
9.1 applications not compatible with specimen, examination  fees have not  been  paid  before due date and 
incomplete and of improper filling will be rejected without any notice. Candidates should bear consequences 
of improper filling of application. It would be useful to retain a photocopy of the application. Applicant 
should check out whether the completed application is conformity with the specimen given in the notice. if 
notice the application can be rejected.
9.2 Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged. No complaints regarding loss of applications in post 
will be entertained.
9.3 On the presumption that only the candidates who have qualifications  specified  in  gazette notification, have 
applied, Surveyor General will follow all candidates who have paid specified examination fees and submitted 
application on or before due date, to sit  for the examination.  the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has the requisite qualifications to sit for the examination. If it is found at the time 
of interview that the applicants do not posse the qualifications for this post, candidature for examination of 
them will be cancelled.
10.0 Examination fees
 Examination fee is Rs. 800/=. The receipt obtained having paid this fee at e cashier of the Surveyor General's Office 
at No. 150, Kirula road, Colombo 05 or at any of the Distric Survey Office or at the Institute of Surveying and 
mapping - diyatalawa should be pasted in the relevant cage in the  application. (it is advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt with applicant for future use). the  fee is not  refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. Applications submitted without receipts will be rejected.
11.0 Submission of Applications
11.1 completed  application  should  be  sent  by  registered  post  to  reach  to  the  following  address on or before 
29.01.2024.
Surveyor General, 
Examination branch, 
Survey department, 
No. 150,
Narahenpita, 
colombo 05.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3476
11.2 applicants who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should submit their applications 
through their Heads of the departments and the applicants who are in State corporations, Local Government 
institutions should submit their applications through their Heads of the institution on or before due date.
11.3 "Recruitment to the Training Grade of the Post of Map Technological Officer - Open Basis" should be 
clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
 N.b.- the applications receive to the Survey department after 29.01.2024 will not be accepted in any 
circumstances.
12.0 furnishing false Information
 if it is revealed that any candidate is not eligible to sit for this examination, his/her candidature is liable to be 
cancelled at any instance before the examination, at the conduct of the examination or after the examination. if it 
is found that a candidate has purposely furnished false information or willfully suppressed any material fact, after 
the recruitment he/she will be liable for dismissal from the public service.
13.0 Appearing for the examination
 candidates should get their signature attested in the admission card before the examination. attested admission 
card should be submitted to the supervisor in the examination hall. otherwise you will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination. further, a candidate should sit for  the  examination  only  at  the examination  hall  assigned  to him.
14.0 Identity of the Candidates
 The candidate should prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on each subject he/she sits for. The 
following documents will be accepted for this .
 I. The valid National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons;
 ii. Valid Passport.
15.0 decisions will be taken by the Surveyor General regarding any matter not mentioned in this notice. all candidates 
are bound to take action in terms of the rules and regulations prescribed in this Gazette notification.
 
on the date of 14.12.2023,  W. Sudath L.C. Perera,
Survey department, Surveyor General,
colombo. Survey department.
Schedule - 01
Examination centres and centre numbers
 Serial No. Centre Centre No.
 01 colombo 01
 02 diyatalawa 02
 03 anuradhapura 03

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3477
Specimen Application
mINISTRy Of TOuRISm AND  LANDS  
SuRvEy  DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the post of map Technological Officer (Training 
Grade) in Sri Lanka Technological Service - 2023
(for office use)
1.0 Examination centre applying to appear for the examination :
2.0 medium of Examination             (Sinhala - S  tamil - t  English - E)
 (Write the relevant letter in the given box)
3.0 Name with initials using initials at the end : ……………………………………………………………………
 (in English block Letters) E.g. PERERa a.b.c.
 3.1 full Name : …………………………………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  (in English block Letters)
 3.2 full Name : …………………………………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  (in Sinhala/ in tamil)
 3.3 National identity card No.:
 3.4 date of birth : date :                    month :                   year :
 3.5 age as at 22.01.2024: years                  months         dates 
 3.6 Gender :     (male - m      female - f)
 3.7 civil Status : married       Unmarried      (Put the mark “ √” in relevant box)
4.0 Permanent address (in English block Letters) : …………………………………………………………………
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 4.1 Permanent address : ………………………………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 4.2 address to which admission should be sent : ………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  (in English block letters)
 4.3 telephone Number (if any) : ……………………………………………………
5.0 applicant's  permanent  resident district : …………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3478
 5.1 divisional Secretariat : …………………………………………………………………………
 5.2 Grama Niladhari division : ……………………………………………………………………
6.0 Educational Qualifications : (certified copies of relevant certificates should be attached)
 6.1 details of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination :
  (i) year and month of the Examination : ……………………………………………………
  (ii) index Number : ……………………………………………………
  (iii) Reults :
  
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
 6.2 details of G.c.E. (a/L) Examination :
  (i) year and month of the Examination : ……………………………………………………
  (ii) index Number : ……………………………………………………
  (iii) Reults :
  
Subject Grade Subject Grade
7.0 Vocational/ technological Qualifications : (certified copies of relevant certificates should be attached)
 7.1 degree/course followed : …………………………………………………………………………
 7.2 the name of the institution of which the degree/course followed : ………………………………
 7.3 duration of the degree/ course : ……………………………………………………………
8.0 other Qualifications : ………………………………………………………………………………………
 ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
9.0 Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence (Put the mark “ √” in the Relevant cage)
  yes  No 
 9.1 if “yes” give details : ……………………………………………………………………
10.0 if you had previously served in Public/ Provincial Public Service and subsequently resigned, the reason 
 for such resignation : ……………………………………………………………………
11.0 details of payment of Examination fees :
 11.1 office at which the payment made : …………………………
 11.2 Receipt No. and date : ………………………………………
 11.3 amount paid : Rs. ……………………………………………

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'12'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.12.2023
3479
affix the examination fee payment  receipt firmly here 
(Keep a photocopy  of the receipt with you)
12.0 Certification of the candidate :
•  i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and that all the sections have been completed correctly.
•  i am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to be wrong, i would be disqualified before the appointment 
and if it is found after the appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from the service.
•  further, i declare that i agree to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by th Surveyor General in respect 
of conduction of examination and release of results.
•  i shall not subsequently change any of the particulars mentioned here.
date : …………………… ………………………………………
  Signature of the applicant
13.0 attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
 
 i certified that mr./mrs./miss ………………………………………………… who is submitting the application is 
personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.
 date : ………………… …………………………………………
   Signature of attester
full Name of the attester : ……………………………………………………………
designation : …………………………………………………………………………
address : ………………………………………………………………………………
(by affixing the official stamp)
14.0 applicable only for the officers who are already in the government or semi government instuitutions.
 attestation of the head of the department/ institution -
 mr./mrs./miss ………………………………… who submitted this application is serving in this department/ institution 
from ………………………… to …………………… and it has not been reported unfinished disciplinary charges against 
him/her. His/Her work, behavior and attendance are satisfactory/unsatisfactory. it is informed that prescribed examination 
fees have been paid and the receipt has been pasted and that if he/she selected to the post of …………………… he/she can 
be/ cannot be released from the department/ institution.
 date : ………………… …………………………………………
   Signature of the Head of department/ institution
12-661
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.