

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2091$78 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 07 jeks bßod - 2018'10'07
No. 2091/78 -  SUNDAY  OCTOBER 07,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG  3879 — 57  (10/2018)
Provincial Council of Central Province
VOLUNTARY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS STATUTE OF CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
NO. 04 OF 2018
I, Bandula Yalegama, Minister of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare, Probation and Child Care Services of the
Central Province, hereby announce that the V oluntary Childhood Development Centers Statute of Central Provincial Council
No. 04 of 2018, which was adopted by the Provincial Council of Central Province on 18
th September 2018, has received the
assent of the Hon. Governor of the Central Province on 05th October 2018.
BANDULA S.B. YALEGAMA,
Minister of Health, Indigenous Medicine,
Social Welfare, Probation and Child Care Services
of the Central Province
Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine,
Social Welfare, Probation and Child Care Services,
Central Province,
P.O. Box 121,
Sangaraja Mawatha,
Kandy,
07
th October 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
2A
1. This statute may be cited as Statute for V oluntary Child Development Centers of Central Provincial
Council No.04 of 2018, and shall come into force from the day of this statute published in the
Gazette by the ministry in charge of subject, after it is approved by the Governor of the Central
Province.
2. On and after the effective date of this statute, a V oluntary Child Development Centre for orphans,
deserted, helpless children and children who need custody and security under court order between
the ages of child birth to 18 years shall not be established or maintained within the province,
except upon being registered for that purpose under the provisions of this Statute.
3. The Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services of Central Province (hereinafter referred
to as the ‘Commissioner’) shall be charged with the legislative authority to achieve the objective
of this statute, and shall have responsibility to monitor and control the V oluntary Child
Development Centers which are registered under this statute.
4. The qualifications required to be eligible for the registration of a V oluntary Child Development
Centre under this Statute are as follows:-
(a) The applicant shall be a registered voluntary organization of Sri Lanka having one of the
objectives of the organization is to be the establishment and maintenance of a Child
Development Centre.
(b) The funds received from Government of Sri Lanka and through donations for maintenance
of Child Development Centre to be credited to a special bank account under the proposed
child Development Centre’s name.
(c) The management and administration of the proposed Child Development Centre shall be
under the control of a board of management consisting of at least seven members including
a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, a Secretary, a Deputy Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, a
Treasurer and a Manager.
(d) The Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer and Manager shall
be the citizen of Sri Lanka.
(e) Not less than 03 members of the board of management shall possess the permanent residence
within the Divisional Secretariat, as the case may be, within which the proposed V oluntary
Child Development Centre is to be established.
(f) The applicant shall possess the complete legal rights for the proposed Child Development
Centre and shall have the privileges to enjoy the movable and immovable properties.
Statute for Voluntary Child Development Centers of  Central Province Provincial Council No. 04 of 2018
A statute to make provisions for the registration, supervision, and administration of V oluntary Child Development Centers
which are maintained under the Provincial Department of Probation, Child Care Services of Central Province and provide
residence, care and protection for children who are orphans, deserted, helpless and children who need custody and security
under court order; the protection of the rights of children, defining the powers of Commissioner and for matters connected
therewith or incidental thereto. This statute is inconsistent with the provisions of the Orphanages Ordinance (Chapter 142)
Be it therefore enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
Short title and Date
of operation
Requirements to
register a Child
Development
Center
Qualifications for
registration
Responsibilities for
administration of
Child Development
Centers

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
(g)  This applicant shall satisfy the minimum quality standards required for the establishment
of a V oluntary Child Development Centre as set out in Schedule 04 of this statute.
5. A voluntary organization which desires to establish a V oluntary Child Development Centre within
the province may, where it satisfies the all the qualifications stipulated in Section 04 of this
statute, shall have applied for provisional approval to establish a proposed V oluntary Child
Development Centre via an application form specified in Schedule 01 of the statute, which shall be
signed by the person who is assigned to function as the Manager of such proposed Centre.
(2).  On receipt of an application submitted for provisional approval under sub-section (1), the
Commissioner shall forthwith make an order to a Probation officer or any other officer having
adequate experience as determined by the Commissioner and who is authorized in that behalf, to
hold an inquiry as may be necessary and submit a report on the same within such time as shall be
specified by the Commissioner.
(3).  The report referred to in sub-section (2) shall, along with other matters, state whether the
applicant satisfies all the qualifications specified in Section 04 to become eligible to be-granted
the provisional approval.
6. (1) The Commissioner shall, upon examining the contents of the report submitted to him under
sub-section (2) of Section 05,  and having
(a) Determined the necessity to establish a Child Development Centre in the particular
area where such Child Development Centre is being proposed to be established, in
view of the Registered Child Development Centers being already maintained in that
area;
(b) Taken into account any other information that he may have gathered on any visit
made personally to the premises where the proposed Child Development Centre is to
be established,
(c) Arrive at a decision as to whether or not to grant provisional approval for the
establishment of V oluntary Child Development Centre concerned by publishing a
notice at Divisional Secretariat and Grama Niladhari Office seeking the general public
opinion on establishment of proposed Child Development Centre and then obtain the
public opinion within 14 days.
(2) A decision on any application received by the Commissioner shall be made with a period of
three months from the date of receipt of such application and where the Commissioner arrives at
a decision to
(a) refuse the grant of provisional approval, he shall inform the applicant in writing of
such fact giving reasons for the refusal;
or
(b) Grant a provisional approval, the applicant shall be issued with a Provisional  Approval
Certificate in the form specified in Schedule II to this Statute.
(3) A provisional approval certificate issued under paragraph (b) of sub-section (1) shall be subject
to terms and conditions that may be prescribed for that purpose by the Minister and be valid for
a period of 06 (six) months from the date of its issue.
Provisional
approval to
establish a
V oluntary Child
Development
Centre
Granting of pre -
approval

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
4A
07. (1) The person to whom a Provisional Approval Certificate has been granted under Section 6 shall
be required to establish the V oluntary Child Development Centre to which it relates prior to the
expiry of period of validity of such Provisional Approval Certificate, and shall submit a report on
its completion along with an application for the registration of such V oluntary Child Development
Centre as a Registered Child Development Centre for the Purpose of this Statute.
(2) In the event the organization to which a Provisional Approval Certificate is issued is unable to
complete the establishment of the V oluntary Child Development Centre within the period of 06
(six)  months referred to in sub-section (1), such organization may, on a written appeal made in that
behalf to the Commissioner, be granted an extension of a further period up to a maximum of
another six months.
08. (1) Within one month of the receipt of the report and the application for registration referred to in
sub-section (1) of  Section 07, the Commissioner shall either by himself or through an officer
authorized in that behalf, make such inquiries and inspections as he considers necessary and
appropriate, in order to determine whether.-
a) Such voluntary Child Development Centre has the capacity to maintain in a manner
that would ensure the best interest of the children admitted therein since the issue of
the Provisional Approval Certificate;
and
b) Such voluntary Child Development Centre should therefore be declared as a Registered
V oluntary Child Development Centre for the purpose of this Statute.
(2) On the conclusion of the inquiry and inspection carried out under sub-section (1), the Commissioner
shall
a) Register such V oluntary Child Development Centre as a Registered Child Development
Centre and issue a Certificate of Registration in the form specified in Schedule III to
this Statute;
b) Refuse to register such V oluntary Child Development Centre a Registered V oluntary
Child Development Centre on any one or more grounds referred to in Section 10 and
state his reasons for such refusal.
(3) A Certificate of Registration issued under paragraph (a) of sub-section (2) shall be valid for a
period of three years from the date of its issue and shall be subject to such terms and conditions
as shall be prescribed from time to time for that purpose by the Minister in charge of subject.
(4) Where the Commissioner refuses to grant a Certificate of Registration under paragraph (b) of
sub-section (2) of this Section, the Provisional Approval Certificate already issued to the person
concerned, if it be in operation, shall stand cancelled, and the provisions of Section 19 of this
Statute shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect of any children who are orphan, deserted,
helpless and children who need custody and security under court order and may have been
admitted to such Child Development Centre after the grant of the Provisional Approval Certificate.
09. A Certificate of Registration issued may be renewed on application being made there for within
three months prior to the date of expiry of the period of validation of such certificate of Registration
and the provisions of Section 08 of this Statute shall mutatis mutandis apply to in respect of such
application for renewal.
Establishment of
V oluntary Child
Development
Centre to be
completed within
the period granted
Registration of a
V oluntary Child
Development
Centre.
Renewal of
Registration of
Certificate

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
10. An application for the registration of a V oluntary Child Development Centre as a Registered
V oluntary Child Development Centre under sub section (2) of Section 07, may be refused by the
Commissioner, on any one or more of the following grounds:
(a) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant does not have or is not able to
obtain adequate resources to maintain such V oluntary Child Development Centre;
(b) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant has failed to provide or to obtain
adequate resources necessary to provide education or any other training, accommodation
facilities, guardianship, protection and maintenance to the orphans, deserted, helpless
children and children who need custody and security under court order in the V oluntary
Child Development Centre;
(c) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the Manager of the V oluntary Child Development
Centre or any person working in the Centre in a volunteer capacity or, any officer or other
employee of the Centre or any other person associated with the administration of the
V oluntary Child Development Centre, is a person who has been convicted of a civil or a
criminal offence;
(d)  Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the repute or character of any person or persons
employed in or working at the V oluntary Child Development Centre is such that it renders
him unsuitable to be so employed or work in a volunteer capacity in the Centre or to be
associated in working with the orphans, deserted, helpless children and children who need
custody and security under court order reside in such V oluntary Child Development Centre;
(e) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the V oluntary Child Development Centre concerned
would be unable to maintain the minimum standards for Registered V oluntary Child
Development Centre specified by the Minister under Section 11;
or
(f) Any other grounds as may be determined by the Minister from time to time, by Notice
Published in the Gazette. In case of refusal by the Commissioner, the applicant shall have
the right of appeal to the Provincial Secretary to the Minister concerned, and the decision
of the secretary shall be final.
(2) An appeal may be made to the Secretary of the Ministry within 30 days from the date of such
refusal in respect of an application rejected under sub section (1) above. The decision of the
Ministry Secretary is final and decisive for the appeal.
11. The Minister may, by an Order Published in the Gazette specify the minimum standards that
should be maintained by a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre and it shall be duty of
the Registered Child Development Centre to strictly comply with all standards so specified
12. (1) The Commissioner shall for the purposes of this Statute, appoint by name or office any Public
officer or any Probation officer, as an Inspector or Inspectors of Registered V oluntary Child
Development Canters within the Province;
(2) An Inspector appointed under sub section (1) shall perform and discharge of his duties and
functions, act on the advice or instructions that may be issued by the Commissioner and be
subject to his authority.
Reasons for refusal
of a registration
Minimum Standards
to be maintained by
registered Child
Development
Centre
Appointment of
inspectors and
inspection and
supervision of
registered Child
Development
Centre

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
6A
13. The Commissioner or an Inspector appointed under Section 12, may at anytime enter and inspect
a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre and may for that purpose, carry out an
examination on any matter as he may consider necessary, to ensure the best of interest of the
orphans, deserted, helpless children and children who need custody and security under court
order resident in such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, including an examination
into the state and management of the Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, the
conditions prevailing therein, the manner in which the children are being looked after and an
examination of the records being maintained in respect of each child resident in such Registered
V oluntary Child Development Centre.
14. A child shall not be admitted to a V oluntary Registered Child Development Centre
(a) Without the prior approval of the Commissioner;
and
(b) In violation of the age limit, gender or any categorization based on religious persuasions or
any other factors as may have been determined by the Commissioner at the time of  registering
such V oluntary Child Development Centre as a Registered V oluntary Child Development
Centre.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub section (1), where a child is found to be facing a
situation which endangers or threatens to cause any harm or a threat to the child’s life, health or
safety, such a child may be admitted to a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre without
the prior approval of the Commissioner. The Manager of the Registered Child Development
Centre shall receive the approval of the Commissioner within two weeks from such admission.
15. (1) It shall be the duty of the Manager of a Registered Child Development Centre to submit a
report to the Commissioner once in every three months, in a form specified in Schedule IV to this
Statute.
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of sub Section (1), the Commissioner or any officer authorized
in that behalf by the commissioner shall have the power to request the Manager of a Registered
V oluntary Child Development Centre by a notice issued in that behalf, to submit a report on any
particular matter relating to the administration of such Registered V oluntary Child Development
Centre or to provide any information considered necessary, to ensure the best interest of the
children who are orphans, deserted, helpless and children who need custody and security under
court order resident in such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre and it shall be the
duty of such Manager to submit the report or to provide the information as the case may be,
within the time stipulated in the notice issued.
16. (1) The manager of a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre shall be required to comply
with any directions or instructions issued by the Commissioner with regard to the transfer of any
orphans, deserted, helpless children and children who need custody and security under court
order resident in such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre and no child resident in
such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre shall be transferred to any other Registered
V oluntary Child
Development Centre or be removed from such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre in
any manner, without the prior approval of the Commissioner.
(2) Where the Placement Committee of a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre decides
to keep a child in the Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre for more than three years,
such decision shall not be carried out without obtaining the prior approval of the Commissioner
for the same.
Admission of
children to a
Registered Child
Development
Centre and duties
of Manager
Submission of
report to the
Commissioner
Transfer of Children
from a Registered
Child Development
Centre
Inspection of
registered Child
Development
Centre

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
17. (1) Where the Commissioner is of the opinion, that
a. The manner in which a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre is being administered
is not satisfactory;
b. The accommodation facilities made available to the children in such Registered V oluntary
Child Development Centre are not adequate or conducive to the welfare of the children
resident therein;
c. The minimum standards specified by the Minister under Section 11 of this Statute are not
being maintained;
or
d. Any terms and conditions prescribed under sub Section (3) of Section 8 are not being
complied with,
The Commissioner shall have the authority to issue general or special directions to the Board of
Management of the Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, regarding measures to be
adopted to rectify the situation.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Board of Management to which any directions are issued under sub
Section (1) to comply with the same.
 (3) Any general or special directions to be issued under sub Section (1), shall be
(a) sent by registered post to the Chairman of the Board of Management or where appropriate
forward to him through the Grama Niladhari of the area where the Registered Child
Development Centre is situated;
or
(b) affixed to a conspicuous place in any building of the Registered Child Development Centre
(4) Where the Manager or Board of Management of the Registered V oluntary Child Development
Centre to whom any general or special directions are issued under sub Section (1) fails to comply
with such directions, the Commissioner shall have the power to make an application to an
appropriate Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction, to ensure their due compliance.
18. (1) Where an application is made to a Magistrate’s Court by the Commissioner under sub Section
(4) of Section 17, issue notice to the members of the Board of Management, requiring them, to
appear before such Magistrate and show cause why the Certificate of Registration granted the
Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre concerned, should not be cancelled due to such
failure.
(2)  On receipt of a notice issued by a Magistrate under sub Section (1), if the members of the
Board of Management fails to appear before such Magistrate on the date specified in such notice
or having appeared fails to show sufficient cause as to why the Certificate of Registration should
not be cancelled, the Magistrate shall make an Order cancelling the certificate of Registration of
the Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre concerned.
(3) Where an order is made under sub Section (2) cancelling the Certificate of Registration of a
Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, or Inspector appointed under  Section 12 or any
person who is duly authorized in that behalf by the Commissioner shall have the power to enter
into such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, and
Issue of general and
special directions
by the
Commissioner
Order of
cancellation

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
8A
(a) Remove the orphans, deserted, helpless children and children need care and security on
court orders, resident in such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre to another
Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre within the Province;
(b) hand over the children to their parent/ Guardians;
Or
(c) Remove the children to any other location as may be determined by the Commissioner
19. (1) Any deserted, helpless and children who need custody and security under court order shall
not be admitted to any Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, of which the Certificate of
Registration has been cancelled.
(2) Any child who was resident in any Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, at the time
of the cancellation of its Certificate of Registration or where the order of cancellation was affirmed
in appeal, as the case may be, it shall be the duty of the Board of Management of such Registered
V oluntary Child Development Centre to continue to provide guardianship, protection and
maintenance to any orphans, deserted, helpless children and children who need custody and
security under court order resident therein notwithstanding such cancellation or the affirmation
of the order, as the case maybe, until such time as the child concerned is removed from such
Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre under sub section (1)
(3) The Commissioner or any officer authorized in that behalf by the Commissioner shall have the
power to take all necessary measures to transfer all the movable and immovable property received
by the government or provincial council stage by stage, to any Registered V oluntary Child
Development Centre, of which the Certificate of Registration has been cancelled to another
registered voluntary child development Centre as defined by the Commission
20. (1) The Minister may establish a Provincial Child Development Centre to be maintained by the
Provincial Council, for the reception, guardianship, protection and maintenance of any orphans,
deserted, helpless children and children who need custody and security under court order who
may be removed from a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, due to the suspension or
cancellation of its Certificate of Registration under this Statute, until alternate arrangements are
made.
(2) All expenses incurred in the establishment, administration and maintenance of a Provincial
Child Development Centre established under sub section (1) shall be paid out of the Provincial
Fund of the Provincial Council.
(3) The Minister shall appoint by name or office, a person to be the Warden of a Provincial Child
Development Centre established under this Section and such number of other officers and
employees as may be required to administer such Provincial Child Development Centre.
21. (1) The Warden of a Provincial Child Development Centre shall perform the duties of his office in
compliance with any directives issued by the Board of Management of such Child Development
Centre of the Province and in accordance with any advice or instructions that may be issued by
the commissioner from time to time.
(2) The warden shall take all necessary steps to ensure adequate guardianship, protection and
maintenance to the orphans, deserted, helpless and children who need custody and security
under court order admitted to the Provincial Child Development Centre and take all necessary
action to transfer as soon as possible such children to a Registered V oluntary Child Development
Centre within the district from where such children had been transferred or to send such children
back to their parents, as the case may be. Where the Warden takes action to transfer any child to
a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, he/she shall obtain the prior approval of the
Commissioner for that purpose.
 Effect of a
cancellation of a
Certificate of
Registration
Provincial Child
Development
Centre
Duties of the
Warden of a
Provincial Child
Development
Centre

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
22. (1)  The Commissioner shall use any funds obtained from any other financial resources or through
donations, for carrying out the activities and performing the duties entrusted to him by or under
this Statute. Money or funds received for this purpose should be credited to special account.
(2)  The Commissioner shall maintain proper books of accounts of all funds made available to him
for the performance his duties under this Statute.
23. The annual income and expenditure and the accounts of each  registered Child Development
Centre shall be audited by a qualified auditor or an institution and be submitted annually to the
Commissioner within the lapse of three months  from  the end of year.
24. The Commissioner shall, on request made by the Manager of a Registered Child Development
Centre, pay a sum of money determined annually as a relief for the maintenance grant to be used
for the benefit of each child resident in such Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre.
25. (1) An annual financial statement in respect of each Registered V oluntary Child Development
Centre shall be prepared by a qualified auditor who has been appointed for that purpose at the
Annual General Meeting of the voluntary organization and the financial statement so prepared
shall be adopted at an Annual General Meeting of the organization.
(2) The financial statement prepared under sub section (1), shall be forwarded to the Commissioner
by the Manager of the Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre concerned, on or before
the 31st of March of each year.
26. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of implementing or enforcing the provisions
of this Statute.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub section (1), the Minister
may make regulations for all, few or any of the following matters:
(a) all the matters in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to be made
under this Statute;
(b) minimum standards set out for the establishment of a Provincial Child Development
Centre and V oluntary Child Development Centre;
(c) information to be included in any report required to be submitted under this Statute;
(d) books and registers to be kept and maintained by the Commissioner and particulars to
be entered therein;
(e) procedure for inspection of Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre;
(f) the circumstances in which Children who orphans, deserted, helpless and children
who need custody and security under court order may be admitted to a Registered
V oluntary Child Development Centre; and
(g) Any other matters that may become necessary in order to give effect to the provisions
of this Statute.
(3)  All regulations made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall be submitted
before the Provincial Council within three months of such Gazetting and be approved by the
Provincial Council.
Availability of
Resources
Audit of accounts
Relief payment
made by the
Commissioner
Annual financial
statement of a
Child Development
Centre
Regulations

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
10A
(4) Every regulation which is not approved by the Provincial Council shall be deemed to be
rescinded from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything previously done
there under.
27. Any person or Board of Management,
(a) Establishes a V oluntary Child Development Centre without obtaining a Provisional Approval
Certificate for the same or continue to operate as a V oluntary Child Development Centre
after the cancellation of a Provisional approval Certificate;
(b) maintains or administers a Child Development Centre after the expiry of the validation
period of the Provisional Approval Certificate, without being registered as a registered
V oluntary Child Development Centre under this Statute;
(c) a personal or a board of management continues to operate as a Registered V oluntary Child
Development Centre after the cancelation of its registration
Shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary trial before
a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to a term
imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period of five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
28. (1) Any person who fails or refuses to submit any information or record required to be submitted
under this Statute shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable,
(a) Where such offence is being committed for the first time, to a fine not exceeding twenty five
thousand rupees;
and
(b)  Where such offence is being committed for the Second time, or thereafter, to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not
exceeding a period of two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2)  Any person who knowingly submits false information or knowingly makes any false or
inaccurate statement in any record or application made under this Statute, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Statute and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be
liable,
(a) where such offence is being committed for the first time, to a fine not exceeding twenty five
thousand rupees;
and
(b) where such offence is being committed for the Second time, or thereafter, to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not
exceeding a period of two years or to both such fine and imprisonment
29. Any person who resists or obstructs the Commissioner, an inspector, or any officer authorized by
the Commissioner, in the performance of any duty or in the discharge of any function or in the
exercise of any power imposed by or under this statute on the Commissioner, an inspector or any
officer authorized by the commissioner, shall be guilty of an offence under this statute and shall
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five
thousand rupees or to a term imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period of two
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Establishment or
maintenance of a
Child Development
Centre in
contravention of
the Statute to be an
offence
Failure to provide
information or
making any false
statement to be an
offence
Obstructions the
Commissioner etc.,
to be an offence

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
30. Any person who acts in contravention of any provisions of this statute or any regulations,
directions or order made there under, shall not be a guilty of an offence under this statute, and be
liable on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand
rupees or to a term of imprisonment of either description not exceeding a period of six months or
to both such fine and imprisonment.
31. Where an offence under this Statute is committed by a board of Management, then, if that board
of Management is
(a) the Board of Management which is administering a V oluntary Child Development Centre or
a Registered Child Development Centre, as the case may be, every member of such Board of
Management;
(b)  a Corporate Body , every Director, Manager, Secretary or an Officer of that corporate body;
 or
(c) a firm, every partner and every manager of that firm, shall be jointly and severally liable for
the commission of the offence, unless he/she proves that the offence was committed without
his/his consent or concurrence and that he/she exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
32. Where an offence under this statute is committed by the Manager, a member of the Board of
Management of a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre or any member of the staff of
such a Registered V oluntary Child Development Centre, the Magistrate shall have the power, in
addition to imposing the penalty specified for that offence, to order for the cancellation of the
registration granted to such V oluntary Child Development Centre.
33. (1) It shall be the duty of the Director of a hospital or any other officer duly authorized in that
behalf, to take all preliminary steps necessary to ensure the registration of the birth of a child born
in such hospital who is found to be an orphan or a deserted a child, prior to such child being
released from the hospital. It shall be the duty of the Director of the hospital or any other officer
duly authorized in that behalf, to inform such births. Once such birth has been duly registered, it
shall be the duty of the Director of the hospital to inform the Commissioner forthwith and the
Director of a hospital shall take all necessary steps to admit such child to a Provincial Child
Development Centre which is administered by the Provincial Department of Probation and Child
Care services.
34. In respect of every child who is admitted to a Provincial Child Development Centre within the
Province, it shall be the duty of the Probation Officer in charge of the unit or an officer authorized
in that behalf by the Commissioner, to submit a detailed report containing all information pertaining
to such child to the Commissioner, within thirty days of admitting such child to the Provincial
Child Development Centre.
35. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner to perform all duties connected with the placement of a
child admitted to a Provincial Child Development Centre within the Province and he may in the
performance of such duty, obtain the assistance of a Placement Committee.
36. Notwithstanding the fact that any V oluntary Child Development Centre which is established
within the  Province and has been registered with the Social Service Department of the Province,
if such Home is a “V oluntary Child Development Centre” within the meaning of this Statute, such
home shall be required to be registered under this Statute.
37. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires
General penalty
Offences
committed by a
Board of
Management
Additional penalty
where an offence is
committed by a
Manager etc
Registration of a
birth
Examination report
Placement of a
child
Requirement for
registration under
this statute
Interpretation

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
12A
“Child” means a person under the age of eighteen years;
“V oluntary Child Development Centre” means a Child Development Centre being maintained fully
or partly out of voluntary funds providing accommodation facilities, protection and undertaking
the guardianship of children who are orphan, deserted, helpless and Children need care and
security on court orders;
“Provincial Child Development Centre” a Children Development Centre of the Province established
under Section 24 of this statute and administered by Provincial Department of Probation and
Child Care Services
“Orphan” when applied to a legitimate child, means a child, both of whose parents are dead or one
of whose parents is dead, the other being incapable of acting as a parent, and when applied to an
illegitimate child, means a child whose mother is dead;
“deserted” when applied to a legitimate child, means a child deserted by both parents or deserted
by one parent, the other being dead or incapable of acting as a parent or a child both of whose
parents are incapable of acting as parents, and when applied to an illegitimate child means a child
deserted by his or her mother or a child whose mother is incapable of acting as a parent;
“helpless” means a child whose father and mothers is dead who is deserted by one parent, the
other being dead or incapable of acting as a parent and needs care and safety, whose  parents are
receiving Public Assistance from Government Department or Local Government Institution;  one
parent of whom is permanently ill and the other (mother or father) has no fixed income;  one parent
of whom is in prison and other (mother or father) has no fixed income; a child of whose one parent
is mentally affected and other has no fixed income; a child of whose parents are  separated by a
court order or other means and either mother or father is in custody of the children and do not
have any fixed income.
“Children who need custody and security on court order” means a child is in need of care and
protection under the Children and Young Persons Ordinance No. 48 of 1939
“Inspector” means an Inspector of a Child Development Centre appointed by the Commissioner
under Section 12;
 “Manager” means the person responsible for the management of a Registered V oluntary Child
Development Centre and in the case of a Child Development Centre that has not been established,
means the person proposed to be appointed or appointed as Manager after its establishment;
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Probation and Child Care Services of the
Province;
“Placement Committee” means a committed appointed under the minimum quality standards
required for the establishment of a V oluntary Child Development Centre as set out in Schedule 01
of this statute.
“Probation Officer” means an officer appointed as a Probation Officer under Section 17 of the
Probation of Offenders Ordinance (Chapter 24);
“Registered V oluntary Children Development Centre” means a Children Development Centre
which is registered under Section 8 of this Statute; and
“Unit” means a probation unit established for the judicial division under the Probation of Offenders
Ordinance (Chapter 24);

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
38. (1)  Any orphanage which has been registered under the Orphanage Ordinance (Chapter 142) and
is being operated and maintained on the date of the coming into operation of this statute shall,
notwithstanding the provisions contained in Section 2 of this Statute, but subject to the provisions
of Sub Section (2), be permitted to continue to be operated and maintained as such from the date
of the coming into operation of this Statute, for a period of six months.
(2) Prior to the expiry of the period of six months referred to in Sub Section (1), an orphanage
referred to in that Sub Section shall be required to make an application under Section 7 of this
Statute for the registration of such orphanage as a Registered Children Development Centre.
(3) Where an application is made for registration under sub Section (2) of this Section, the
Commissioner shall grant a Temporary Certificate of Registration in the from specified in Schedule
V of this statute which shall be valid for a period of six months and the Commissioner shall require,
as may be appropriate, to comply, with the requirements specified in Sections 4 and 8 before the
expiry of such period, and thereafter make a decision to register such Orphanage as a V oluntary
Children Development Centre under this Statute.
39. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of this Statute,
Sinhala version shall prevail.
Savings
SCHEDULE  I Section 5 (1)
Application for Provisional Approval and Registration to establish a Voluntary Child Development Center under section
5 (1) of the Statute for Voluntary Child Development Centers of
Central Provincial Council No. 04 of 2018
1.  Name of the V oluntary Child Development Centre seeking approval (shall have proved by a copy of relevant
constitute)
2. Registration Number given on being registered as a voluntary organization:-
3. Sex and maximum and minimum age of the children who are proposed to be admitted to the Child Development
Centre
4. Sources of the funding available for the maintenance of the proposed Child Development Centre:-
5. Total amount of the funds available for expenditure for the establishment of the proposed Child Development
Centre:-
6. Names and addresses of the Member of the Board of Management of the Proposed Child Development Centre:-
7.  Whether the applicant has satisfied the minimum standards by regulation
8. Details on the ownership of the property in which the proposed Child Development Centre is to be established
(shall have produced the deed and other legal documents to prove the ownership)
9. Approved plan of the building or buildings currently found in the premises and building or buildings to be constructed
for the maintenance of the proposed Child Development Centre.
I do hereby declare that the above information is true and correct.
..........................................................................
Date:..................................... Signature of the Chairman of the Board of
Management of the proposed Child Development Centre.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
14A
SCHEDULE  II [Section 6 (2) (b)]
Provisional Approval Certificate under section 6 (2) (b) of the Statute for Voluntary Child Development Centers of
Central Provincial Council No. 04 of 2018
I, ..........................................................., Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services for the ……………… …………
Province, do hereby issue under Section 6 (2) (b) of the V oluntary Child Development Centre Statute of Central Province
No. ……...……. of 2018, this Provisional Approval Certificate for the establishment of the Child Development Centre at
……………………………..to be called and known as ......................................
Date : ..................................... ..........................................................................
Signature and the official stamp of the Commissioner of
Probation and Child Care Services.
SCHEDULE  III [Section 8 (2) (a)]
Certificate of Registration under section 8 (2) (a) of the Statute for Voluntary Child Development Centers of  Central
Provincial Council No. 04 of 2018
I, ........................................................................................., Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services for the
..........................................................................…… Province, do hereby certify that the Child Development Centre established at
................................................, and called and known as ...................................................................., was registered by me as a
Registered Child Development Centre under Section 8 (2) (a) of the V oluntary Child Development Centre Statute of Central
Province No. ……...…………………….
Issued on this ................ day of ..................., 20......
Date : ..................................... ..........................................................................
Signature and the official stamp of the Commissioner of
Probation and Child Care Services.
SCHEDULE   IV [Section 15 (1)]
Report under section 15 (1)  of the Statute for Voluntary Child Development Centers of  Central Provincial Council
No. 04 of 2018
Name and location of the Registered Child Development Centre:-
 Number, and sex of the children accommodated at the Child Development Centre, as on the date hereof
 Number of cases of serious illness among the children in the Child Development Centre during the three months
immediately preceding the date hereof and the nature of the illness in each case.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'07
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 07.10.2018
 Nature and quantity of the normal diet of the children in the Child Development Centre and number of meals given per
day to each such child.
 Number of children (if any) who had left the Child Development Centre during the months immediately preceding the
date hereof and the cause for leaving.
Date : ..................................... ..........................................................................
Signature and the official stamp of the
 Chairman of the board of management of
the Registered Child Development Centre.
SCHEDULE  V [Section 38 (3)]
Temporary Certificate of Registration under section 38(3) of the Statute for Voluntary Child Development Centers of
Central Provincial Council No. 04 of 2018
Temporary Certificate of Registration under Section 41 (3) of the Child Development Centre Statute of Central Province No.
04 of 2016,
I, ........................................................................................., the Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services of
.................................................... Province, do hereby issue this Temporary Certificate of Registration under section 38(3) of the
Statute for V oluntary Child Development Centers of  Central Provincial Council No. 04 of 2018, to the Orphanage established
under the Orphanages Ordinance (Chapter 142) at .................................... and called and known as ........................, which shall
be valid for a period of six months from .............................. day of ..............20...............
Date : ..................................... ..........................................................................
Signature and the official Stamp of the Commissioner of
Probation and Child Care Services.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.