

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1798$13 - 2013 fmnrjdß ui 18 jeks i÷od - 2013'02'18
No. 1798/13  - MONDAY,  FEBRUARY  18, 2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
THE  CONSTITUTION  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI LANKA
Notification
IT is hereby notified that the Notification issued by me in the exercise of powers vested in me under Paragraph (1) (a) of
Article 44 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka and published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1796/10 of February 06, 2013 is hereby amended by the repeal of the Schedule thereof and the substitution therefor of the
Schedule given below :-
M
AHINDA RAJAPAKSA,
 President.
Presidential Secretariat,
Colombo 01,
18th February, 2013.
SCHEDULE
(1) With reference to the heading, Minister of Finance & Planning (No. 2) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) in Column II thereof, by the substitution for items 9, 21 and 24 thereof, of the following items :
“9. Department of Trade and Investment Policy
21. Department of Project Management and Monitoring
24.  Academy of Financial Studies";
(b) in Column II thereof, by the addition immediately after item 47 thereof, of the following item :-
“48. Department of Information Technology Management";
(2) With reference to the heading, Minister of Industry & Commerce (No. 22) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) in Column I thereof, by the substitution for items 11 and 12 thereof, of the following items :-
“11.  Approval of Credit Agencies in terms of Section 114 of Act, No. 6 of 1949;
1A - PG001567 - 835 (2013/2)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
N.B.– Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary will be published separately.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
2A
12. All other subjects that come under the purview of Organizations   listed in Column II
13. Supervision of the Organizations listed in Column II";
(3) With reference to the heading, Minister of Power & Energy (No. 23) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) in Column I thereof, by the omission of the item 9 ;
(b) in Column I thereof, by the substitution for items 10 and 11 thereof, of the following items :-
"  9. All other subjects that come under the purview of Organizations listed in   Column II;
10. Supervision of the Organizations listed in Column II";
(c) in Column II thereof, by the omission of the items 1, 3 and 7;
(d) in Column II thereof, by the substitution for items 2, 4, 5 and 6 thereof, of the following items :-
"1. Ceylon Electricity Board
 2. Lanka Electricity Company
3. Lanka Coal Company (Pvt.) Ltd.
4. LTL Holding (Pvt.) Ltd.
(e) in Column III thereof, by the omission of "Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969" and "Sri Lanka
Sustainable Energy Authority Act, No. 35 of 2007";
(4) With reference to the heading, Minister of Economic Development (No. 26) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) by the omission of the items in Columns I, II and III thereof, and insertion of the following items :-
 Column I Column II Column III
Duties & Functions Departments,  Public Corporations & Laws to be Implemented
Statutory  Institutions
1 . Formulation of policies, pro-
grammes and projects in regard to
the subjects of poverty alleviation,
agrarian services, tourism and
subjects that come under the
purview of   Departments and
Statutory Institutions listed in
Column II, on the basis of Mahinda
Chinthana- Vision for the Future and
any other overall National Policies
that may be adopted by the
Government.
2. Direction and implementation  of
the policies, programmes  and
Projects with a view to achieving
the relevant national objectives
within time lines agreed with the
national planning authorities and
within budgeted resources.
3. Provision of all public services
that come under the purview of
1. Department of Divineguma Develop-
ment (where the Minister by order
published in the Gazette appoints the
date of operation of the provisions
of Divineguma Act, No. 1 of 2013)
2. Department of Agrarian Development
3. Sri Lanka Tourism Promotion Bureau
4. Sri Lanka Tourism Development
Authority
5. Sri Lanka Convention Bureau
6. Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and
Hotel Management
7. Rural Development Training and
Research Institute
8. Department of Commissioner General
of Samurdhi
* Divineguma Act, No. 1 of
2013
* Agrarian Development Act,
No. 46 of 2000
* Tourism Act, No. 38 of 2005
* Poor Relief Act, No. 32 of
1985
* Samurdhi Authority of Sri
Lanka Act, No. 30 of 1995
* Southern Development
Authority of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 18 of 1996
* Udarata Development
Authority of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 26 of 2005

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
3A
9 . Department of Up-Country
Peasantry Rehabilitation
10. Samurdhi Authority of Sri Lanka
11. Southern Development
Authority and its Subsidiaries
12. Udarata Development Authority
the Ministry in an   efficient and
people    friendly manner.
4. Reforming of all systems and
procedures to ensure the
conduct of business in an
efficient manner  deploying
modern management techniques
and     technology where
applicable, while     eliminating
corruption and waste.
5.  Implementation of      rural
livelihood      development
initiatives.
6. Formulation of rural      and
regional economic development
policies  and strategies.
7. Development of   infrastructure
facilities in the rural and estate
sectors.
8. Direction of the implementation
of all Regional Development
Programmes  (including District
Development      Programmes).
9. Direction and  implementation of
"Divineguma" (where the
Minister by  order published in
the   Gazette appoints the date
of operation of  the provisions
of  Divineguma Act, No. 1  of
2013).
10. Paddy land tenure.
11 Farmers' Social Security Benefit
Scheme.
12. Implementation of
Decentralized Budget.
13. Development of the  Tourism
Industry and  establishment of
standards.
14. Registration of  Tourism
Agencies.
* All other legislations pertaining
to the subjects specified in
Column I and II, and not
specifically brought under the
purview of any other Ministry
and remaining currently in force.
 Column I Column II Column III
Duties & Functions Departments,  Public Corporations & Laws to be Implemented
Statutory  Institutions

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
4A
(5) With reference to the heading, Minister of Environment (No. 34) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) the heading as "(34) Minister of Environment & Renewable Energy"
(b) in Column I thereof, by the substitution for items 11 and 12 thereof, of the following items :-
" 11. Renewable Energy Development
12. All other subjects that come under the purview of Organizations listed in  Column II
13. Supervision of the Organizations listed in Column II"
(c) in Column II thereof, by addition of the following item immediately after item 9 :-
"10. Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority";
(d) in Column III thereof, by addition of the following item immediately after the words : "National Gem and
Jewellery Authority Act"
"Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority Act, No. 35 of 2007"
(6) With reference to the heading, Minister of Education (No. 37) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) in Column I thereof, by the omission of items 7 and 8;
(b) in Column II thereof, by the omission of item 5;
(c) in Column III thereof, by the omission of the words "National Library and Documentation Services Board Act,
No. 51 of 1998;
(7) With reference to the heading, Minister of Agriculture (No. 43) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) in Column II thereof, by addition of the following items immediately after item 7 :-
" 8. Ceylon Fertilizer Company Ltd.
9. Colombo Commercial Fertilizer Company
10. National Fertilizer Secretariat
11. Janatha Fertilizer Enterprises Ltd.
(b) in Column III thereof, by addition of the following item immediately after the words : "Sri Lanka Council for Agricultural
Research Policy Act, No. 47 of 1987"
"Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988";
(8) With reference to the heading, Minister of Minor Export Crop Promotion (No. 50) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) in Column II thereof, by the omission of item 3;
(b) in Column III thereof, by the omission of the words "Sugarcane Research Institute Act, No. 75 of 1981;
(9) With reference to the heading, Minister of Agrarian Services & Wildlife (No. 56) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) the heading as "(56) Minister of Wildlife Resources Conservation";
15. All other subjects that  come
under the  purview of
Organizations listed in Column II.
16. Supervision of the   Organizations
listed in Column II.
Column I Column II Column III
Duties & Functions Departments,  Public Corporations & Laws to be Implemented
Statutory  Institutions

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
5A
(b) in Column I thereof, by the omission of items 5 and 6;
(c) in Column II thereof, by the omission of all items and insertion of the following items :-
"1. Department of Wildlife Conservation
2. Wildlife Trust";
(d) in Column III thereof, by the omission of the following items :
"Agrarian Development Act, No. 46 of 2000";
" Regulation of Fertilizer Act, No. 68 of 1988";
(10) W ith reference to the heading, Minister of State Resources & Enterprise Development  (No. 60) of the said Notification,
as follows :-
(a) in Column II thereof, by the omission of items 2, 4, 5 and 6;
(11) W ith reference to the heading, Minister of Technology & Research (No. 62) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) the heading as "(62) Minister of Technology, Research & Atomic Energy";
(b) in Column II thereof, by addition of the following item immediately after item 11 :-
"12.      Atomic Energy Authority";
(c) in Column II thereof, by addition of the following item immediately after item 14 :-
"15.      Polipto Lanka (Private) Ltd.
(d) in Column III thereof by addition of the following item immediately after the words :
"Sri Lanka Standards Institute Act, No. 6 of 1984;"
"Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969"
(12) W ith reference to the heading, Minister of Productivity Promotion (No. 63) of the said Notification, as follows :-
(a) in Column I thereof, by the omission of item 9;
(13) by addition of the following new headings, after Columns I, II and III of the heading "Minister of Public Management
Reforms (No. 64)" of the said Notification :-
(65)     Minister of Sugar Industry Development :
Column I Column II Column III
Duties & Functions Departments,  Public Corporations Laws to be Implemented
& Statutory Institutions
1. Formulation of policies,
programmes and projects in
relation to the Sugar Industry
Development and subjects that
come under the purview of
Statutory and other Institutions
listed in Column II, based on
Mahinda Chinthana-Vision for
the future and any other
National Policies that may be
adopted by the Government.
1.  Kantale Sugar Company
2. Hingurana Sugar Industries Ltd.
3. Lanka Sugar (Private) Company
Ltd.
4 . Galoya Plantation (Private)
Company
5. Sugarcane Research Institute
* Sugarcane Research     Institute  Act,
No. 75       of 1981
* All other legislations     pertaining to
the subjects specified in Column I
and II, and not specifically      brought
under the purview of any other
Ministry and remaining currently  in
force.
2 - PG001567

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
6A
2. Direction and implementation of
the policies, programmes and
projects with a view to
achieving the relevant national
objectives within time lines
agreed with the national
planning authorities and within
budgeted resources.
3. Provision of all public services
that come under the purview of
the Ministry in an efficient and
people friendly manner.
4. Reforming of all systems and
procedures to ensure the
conduct of business in an
efficient manner  deploying
modern management techniques
and technology where
applicable while eliminating
corruption and waste
5. Direction and   Supervision of
activities  carried out by the
Competent Authorities
appointed in respect of  revival
of the Underutilized assets of
Pelwatte Sugar Industries Ltd.
and Sevanagala Sugar
Industries Ltd., vested in the
Secretary to the    Treasury,
under Act,  No. 43 of 2011.
6. Transforming the Institutions
listed in Column II to
commercially viable enterprises.
7. Supervision, Co-ordination and
provision of guidance for
enterprises and introduction of
structural adjustments.
8. Management and protection of
state resources in relation to the
Sugar Industry.
9. Enhancing financial strength
and commercial viability of the
Institutions.
10. All other subjects that come
under the purview of
Organizations listed in Column II.
11.    Supervision of  the relevant
Organizations listed in   Column II.
Column I Column II Column III
Duties & Functions Departments,  Public Corporations Laws to be Implemented
& Statutory Institutions

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
7A
1.  Board of Investment of     Sri Lanka
(66)     Minister of Investment Promotion
Column I Column II Column III
Duties & Functions Departments,  Public Corporations Laws to be Implemented
& Statutory Institutions
* Greater Colombo Economic
Commission Law, No. 4 of 1978
(BOI Law)
* Strategic Development Projects
Act, No. 14 of 2008
* All other legislations pertaining to
the subjects specified in Column I
and II, and not specifically brought
under the purview of any other
Ministry and remaining currently in
force.
 1. Formulation  of  policies,
programmes and   projects in
relation to Investment Promotion
and  subjects that come under the
purview of   Statutory Institution
listed in Column II, based on
Mahinda Chinthana-Vision for the
future and any other National
Policies that may be adopted by
the Government
2. Direction and        implementation
of       the policies,       programmes
and       projects with a view       to
achieving the       relevant national
objectives within         time lines
agreed       with the national
planning authorities       and within
budgeted       resources.
3. Provision of all  public services
that come under the   purview of
the        Ministry in an        efficient
and people        friendly manner.
4.  Reforming of all systems and
procedures to ensure  the conduct
of business  in an efficient manner
deploying modern     management
techniques and technology where
applicable while eliminating
corruption  and waste
5 . Promotion of Foreign Direct
Investment
6. Promotion of  Investment in the
private sector
7. Monitoring and Supervision of
activities carried out by
Competent Authorities
appointed  in respect of revival of
the Underutilized Assets of the
following Institutions, vested in
the Secretary to the Treasury,
under the Act, No. 43 of 2011;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
8A
(i) Properties situated at
Badulla - Colombo
Commercial Company
(ii) Sinotex (Lanka) Ltd.
(iii) Jaqalanka Limited
(iv) Plymouth Industries
(Private) Limited
(v) Cosmos Macky     Industries
Limited
(vi) Kabool Lace (Private)
Limited
(vii) Intertrade Lanka    (Private)
Limited
(viii) Seetha's Fashion  (Private)
Limited
(ix) D.C. Apparel (Private)
Limited
(x) Needle Crafts (Private)
Limited
(xi) Hy Fashion  Garments
(Private)  Limited
(xii) Collins Garment    (Private)
Limited
 (xiii) Ruhunu Putha Apparels
(Private) Limited
(xiv) Sanjaya Garments
(Private) Limited
(xv) Macfa Apparel (Private)
Limited
(xvi) Y obeedha Associates
(Private) Limited
 (xvii) Dynamic Clothing (Private)
Limited
(xviii) 609 Polymers Exports
(Private) Limited
(xix) Cosco Polymer Lanka
(Private) Limited
(xx) Great Wall Thread
Manufacturing (Private)
Limited
(xxi) Adamjee Extractions
(Private) Limited
(xxii) Data Food (Private)
Limited
(xxiii) Tandon Lanka (Private)
Limited
 (xxiv) Rican Lanka (Private)
Limited
 (xxv) Composite Tower
Solutions (Private)
Limited
(xxvi) Health Food   Products (Private)
Limited

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
9A
 (67)     Minister of Botanical Gardens   and  Public Recreation
Column I Column II Column III
Duties and  Functions Departments,  Public Corporations Laws to be Implemented
and  Statutory Institutions
1. Formulation of policies,    pro-
grammes and projects in relation
to  conservation,  maintenance
and development of  Botanical
Gardens,  Public Recreation and
subjects that come under the
purview of Departments and
Statutory Institutions listed in
Column II, based on Mahinda
Chinthana-Vision for the future
and any other National Policies
that may be adopted by the
Government.
2. Direction and  implementation of
the  policies, programmes and
projects with a view   to achieving
the  relevant  national   objectives
within    time lines agreed  with the
national planning authorities
and within budgeted  resources.
3. Provision of all  public services
that     come under the   purview of
the  Ministry in an efficient and
people  friendly manner.
4.  Reforming of all systems and
procedures to ensure  the conduct
of business  in an efficient manner
deploying modern   management
1. Department of National
Zoological Gardens
2. Department of National
Botanical  Gardens
3. Sri Lanka Handicrafts  Board
(LAKSALA)
* National ZoologicalGardens Act,
No. 41 of  1982.
* Botanical Gardens Ordinance
No. 31 of  1928.
* All other legislations pertaining to
the  subjects specified in Column I
and  II, and not    specifically brought
under the purview of any other
Ministry and   remaining currently in
force.
(xxvii) Sri Chirag (Private)  Limited
(xviii) Royale Exports (Private)
Limited
(xxix) Continental Vanaspathi
(Private) Limited .
 8. All other subjects that  come
under the purview of
Organizations listed in
Column II
9 . Supervision of  Institutions
referred in Column II

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
10A
1 . National Library and
Documentation Services     Board
Column I Column II Column III
Duties and  Functions Departments,  Public Corporations Laws to be Implemented
 and  Statutory Institutions
techniques and technology where
applicable while  eliminating
corruption and waste.
5. Conservation of  Sri  Lanka Flora,
maintenance of the Botanical
Gardens and assisting in the
Floriculture Industry.
6. Launch of public educational
programmes by exhibiting
collections  of animals,  birds,
reptiles, etc.
7 . All other subjects that come
under the purview of Organi
zations listed in  Column II.
 8. Supervision of Institutions
referred in  Column II.
(68)     Minister of Education Services
1. Formulation      of             policies,
programmes   and    projects    in
relation to provision of Education
Services based on Mahinda
Chinthana-Vision for the future
and any other National Policies
that may be adopted by the
Government.
2. Direction and   implementation of
the policies,   programmes and
projects with a view  to achieving
the  relevant national    objectives
within  time lines agreed with the
national  planning authorities
and within budgeted       resources.
3. Provision of all  public services
that come under the  purview of
the  Ministry in an  efficient and
people friendly manner.
4.  Reforming of all  systems and
* National Library and  Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998
*  All other legislations pertaining to
the subjects specified in  Column I
and II, and not specifically
brought under the purview of any
other   Ministry and remaining
currently in force.
Column I Column II Column III
Duties and  Functions Departments,  Public Corporations Laws to be Implemented
and  Statutory Institutions

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2013
11A
procedures to ensure the conduct
of business in an efficient manner
deploying modern     management
techniques  and technology where
applicable while eliminating
corruption  and waste.
5. Direction and     implementation
of       programmes and     projects
for the     provision of Free School
Text  Books, Uniforms,     Footwear,
Desks,     Chairs and equipment,
mid-day meals, etc.
6. Promotion and  Development of
School  Libraries.
7 . All other subjects that come
under the purview of
Organizations listed in  Column II.
8 . Supervision of Institutions
referred in  Column II.
03-328
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Column I Column II Column III
Duties and  Functions Departments,  Public Corporations Laws to be Implemented
and  Statutory Institutions