

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1819$49 – 2013 cQ,s 19 jeks isl=rdod – 2013'07'19
No. 1819/49 – FRIDAY, JULY 19, 2013
My No.: CI/1787.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Unilever Sri Lanka Limited 258 M. Vincent Perera Mawatha Colombo 14 of the one part
and the Ceylon Mercantile Industrial and General Workers' Union (CMU) No. 3, 22nd Lane Colombo 03 of the other part on 18th day of
January, 2013 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactm ents of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V . B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner  of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
11th July, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 05 of 2013
AGREEMENT  BETWEEN  UNILEVER  SRI  LANKA  LIMITED  AND  THE  CEYLON  MERCANTILE  INDUSTRIAL
AND  GENERAL  WORKERS'  UNION  (CMU)
This Agreement made and entered into on 18th January, Two Thousand and Thirteen in terms of the Industrial Dispute Act between
Unilever Sri Lanka Limited, No. 258, M. Vincent Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 (hereinafter referrred to as the "COMPANY") of the one part
and the Ceylon Mercantile Industrial and General Workers' Union (CMU) No. 3, 22nd Lane, Colombo 3 (hereinafter referred to as t he
"UNION")  of the other part witnesseth:
It is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
1. Title.– This agreement shall be referred to as the "Unilever Sri Lanka Ltd - Staff Employees" Collective Agreement, 2013 - 2015.
2. Parties and Employees to be Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Company and the Union in relation
to all permanent staff of the Unilever Sri Lanka Limited situated at No. 258, M. Vincent Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 and at Horana Export
Processing Zone, Boralugoda, Poruwadanda, Horana also referred to as the Grandpass Site and Horana site including  the Staff employees
of Lipton Ceylon Limited and Brooke Bond Ceylon Limited also at No. 258, M. Vincent Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 referred to as the Tea
N.B.– This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – G018002 – 250 (2013/07)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
Division, this agreement excluding the employees of the Premium Exports Ceylon Limited. A "Permanent staff employee" shall mean and
shall include all categories of employees on monthly contract of employment in job grades of 5, 4 and 3 as classified by the Company.
3. Registration.– An application will be made by the Company to the Commissioner of Labour for Registration of this Agreement
under the Industrial Disputes Act.
4. Variation of Terms and conditions of Employment or Benefits–  (a) Subject only to sub-clause ( b) hereof the and Union its
members and the company agree that this Agreement shall be full and conclussive in respect of all matters covered herein and that during the
continuance of this Agreement they will not seek to vary alter or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment p resently
applicable.
(b) The Union may however make representations regarding any matter for the purpose of modifying any of the matters contained
herein and the Management shall discuss such matters with the Union, subject to the condition that the Management's decision
on the matter shall the final and not subject to further dispute.
In so far as matters that are not specifically covered by this Agreement, or the minutes referred herein the practices prevailing in
the company shall continue to apply for the duration of this Agreement, subject to the right of the Company to reasonably vary
such practices depending on prevailing conditions, but subject also to the right of the union to discuss and dispute any changes
that may take place.
(c) In the event of there being doubts as to the interpretation of any particular provision of this Agreement, the Minutes of the
Meetings, maintained by the company which set out the negotiations which proceded the signing of this Agreement (the official
record of the Minutes) shall be taken as final in this regard.
The minutes also record some of the matters that have been agreed between the company and the Union which  have not been
included in this Agreement and it is hereby agreed that these matters so recorded are part and parcel of this Collective Agreement, and would
be implied terms in all contracts of employment of the employees covered and bound.
5. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement will come in to effect on the 1st day of Januay, 2013 and shall thereafter
continue in force for a period of 3 years ending on 31st day of December 2015 unless it is terminated by either party with six (6) months
notice to the other, provided however, that neither party shall give such notice on or before 30th June, 2015.
Each party however may also on any day after the 30th day of June, 2015 give notice in writing, of their intention to enter into a fresh
Agreement or modify the existing Agreement. Parties shall then commence negotiations in that regard.
In the event of failure of the parties to conclude a fresh Agreement or to modify the existing Agreement, within a period of six (6)
months from the date of notice of intention to  negotiate a fresh Agreement or modify the existing Agreement, parties agree that either party
may request the commissioner of Labour to summon a conference in an attempt to resolve any difference and reach Agreement. Part ies
undertake to attend such a conference that may be summoned by the Commissioner of Labour.
In the meantime unless otherwise terminated or provided herein the provisions of this Collective Agreement shall continue to remain
in force.
6. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.–  The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be incorporated in all
contracts of service between the company and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement whether such contract of service  be
written or oral, which are subsisting at the time of signing of this Agreement or which comes into being during the period of this Agreement.
7. Consolidation of Salaries.– The company agrees to consolidate the follwing amounts into salaries of employees on the 1st of
August, annually, for the duration of the agreement.
1.
1st August 2013 - Rs. 1,100/-
2. 1st August 2014 - Rs. 1,200/-
3. 1st August 2015 - Rs. 1,300/-
Parties are agreed to meet and discuss the basis on which this payment (which was hitherto paid based on the Colombo Consumers'
Price Index - CCPI) could be continued or to find an alternate solution in lieu, after the 1st of August, 2015.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
3A
8. Work Plan Concept.– Parties agree to continue the Work Plan Concept implemented in with effect from 1st January, 2009 subject
to the Unilever Sri Lanka Ltd – Staff Employee Collective Agreeement. 2008 - 2011.
With effect from January, 2013 annual increments shall be granted to employees covered and bound by this Agreement in terms of
the provisions stipulated hereof as well as those Specifically incorporated in clause 9 below.
9. Annual Increments– (a) Staff members will be granted the Annual Increment and based on their performance as per the existing
work plan system as set out below, subject to the condition stipulated in clause 9 ( b) Work Plan System.
Description Criteria Annual Increment
%
Exceptional (Additional Tasks) Achieved over and above the agreed 100%  7 to 8
work plan with high quality and additional tasks
Very Good Achieved 100% with high quality 6 to 7
Good Achieved 75% 4 to 5
Average Achieved  50% with required quality  3 to 4
Satisfactory Achieved  between 50%  - 25% 1 to 2
Unsatisfactory Below 25%     0
(b)  In the case of employees who have exceeded the maximum job value (MJV), Annual increment shall be limited to a maximum of
4% only.
10. Revision of Salaries.– It is agreed by the management to grant a fixed salary revision each year limited, to the period 2013-2015
based on employee performance in terms of the scheme set out hereunder.
The salary received by an employee as at 31st of December shall be considered for the purpose of calculating the rate of revisi on
which shall be payable on the 1st day of January each year (i.e. only during the period 2013-15), commencing January 2013.
Description Criter ia Salary revision
to be granted
Exceptional (Additional Tasks) Achieved over and above the agreed 8
100% work plan with high quality and
additional tasks.
Very Good Achieved 100% with high quality. 7
Good Achieved 75%. 6
Average Achieved 50% with required quality. 5
Satisfactory Achieved between 50% - 25%. 2
Unsatisfactory Below 25% 0
11. Increments at Promotions / Upgradings.– When upgradings / promotions take place, the following percentages of the individual
gross salary will be granted.
Upgrading by one grade 10%
Upgrading by two grades 12%
Promotion from Category to Category 12%
(eg. Minor staff to Staff)
12. Annual Bonus.– During the period of this Agreement the Company agrees to pay a bonus of 2-1/2 months salary at the end of
each year.
This may be withdrawn either totally or partially for disciplinary reasons.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
13. Service Increment.– Employees whose work and conduct are good will normally be entitled to an increment of 4% of their
consolidated salary as at 31st December of the previous year on reaching 10, 15, 20 and 25 years service respectively.
14. Allowances.– All allowances will be revised as Schedule 01.
15. Shift Allowance.– Production Assistants, Engineering Assistants, Canteen Service Assistants, Clerical Assistants and Security
Assistants will be entitled to the following shift allowance with effect from 1st January, 2013.
Shift Prod & Eng. Clerical Security
Assts. Assts. Assts.
6 am / 2 pm 175.00 175.00 175.00
2 pm / 9 pm 240.00 240.00 240.00
9 pm / 6 am 620.00 620.00 620.00
6 am / 6 pm 292.00 292.00 292.00
7 am / 4.30 pm 70.00 70.00 70.00
6 pm / 6 am 770.00 770.00 770.00
16. Holidays.– Unless circumstances change, management agrees to continue the present system of declaring the same holidays for
both salaried staff and factory workforce.
17. Spectacle Allowance.– The company will not reimburse any spectacle allowance of staff employees for the purchase of
spectacles. This reimbursement facility will be removed totally by consolidating Rs. 750/- to the consolidated 31st December, 2012 salary
of all staff employees covered by this agreement.
18. Supplementary Retirement Benefit Scheme.–  Employees will be entitled to a Supplementary Retirement Gratuity after
completion of 10 years service in the Company. They will be entitled to 1 (one) month's gross salary for each year of service.
The company agrees to include annual Bonus as "salary" in the computation of the amount payable under the Supplementary
Retirement Benefit Scheme.
19. Contribution to Provident Fund.–  Contributions to Provident Fund will be at the rates of 12% by the Company and 12% by
the employees covered by this agreement.
20. Company Products.–  The Company agrees to issue every month to each employee a gift parcel of Company products to the
value of Rs. 1500/- (Rupees Thousand five hundred) each calculated at retail prices as at 1st February, 2011.
21. Reduced Rate Parcel.–  Staff members covered by this agreement are entitled to request for paid company products (Reduced
Rate pack) based on the company defined rate.
22. Free issue of Astra.–  The company will continue to issue 2 (two) tubs of Astra 250g twice a year. This will be issued in April
and December of each year.
23. Festival Advance.–  The Company agrees to pay one advance payment against up to a maximum of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees
Twenty Five Thousand only) per annum on the occasion of a recognised festival. This shall be subject to Clause 36 of this Agreement.
24. Emergency Staff Loans.–  The company agrees to grant a loan up to a maximum of 3 months salary for the following reasons.
Incase of an ill health of a family member (self/spouse/Children, Mother-in-law and Father-in-Law) where the assistance from the
company Medical Scheme is not sufficient or in a situation where the patient is not covered by the Medical Insurance Scheme.
To be of financial assistance in case of a natural disaster such as Tsunami, Cyclones, heavy floods causing damages to own property.
The loan granted will be recovered in a period of 10 months. The interest rate will be 9.5% per annum. This shall be subject to Clause
36 of this Agreement.
25. Remittance of Monthly Instalments.–   The Company will provide employee salary details based on employee request to
obtain housing loans from recognised financial institutions and remittance of monthly instalments will be done only for selected banks.
Remittance of monthly instalments shall be subjected to Clause 36 of this Agreement.
26. Canteen Meals.–  Unless circumstances change the Company undertakes to provide meals in the Company's canteen. The
Company's intention is to charge the approximate cost of raw materials used for the preparation of such meal from each employee . The
company will charge Rs. 20/- for the main meal from all staff members.
27. Tea Service.– The Company  agrees to provide a free tea in the morning and afternoon.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
5A
28. Scholarship Scheme– The present scholarship scheme for staff and workforce employees children will continue with 60%
enhanced rate to the present scheme with effect from 1st January 2013.
29. Leave entitelement, hours of work and Attendance.– Leave entitlement, hours of work and attendance will be governed by the
rules framed for the purpose. These  rules may be changed by the Company from time to time but not so as to deprive any employee of any
rights or benefits conferred upon him by law.
30. Medical and Casual Leave and Service Leave.– The Medical Leave entitlement will be 21 days per year. Any accumulation
beyond this 21 days will be paid at the rate of 1 1/2 (one  and half) day's salary as at 31st December of each year.
The casual Leave entitlement will be 07 days per year. Any accumulation beyond this 07 days will be paid only at the rate of 1
(one) days salary as at 31st December of catch year.
The service leave entitlement will be 3 days per year and 5 days only per year for the staff employees who complete 10 years of
service and 15 years of service respectively. Any accumulation beyond this 3 days for those who have completed 10 years and 5 days for
those who have completed 15 years days will be paid only at the rate of 1 (one) day salary as at 31st December each year.
31. Death of An Employee in Service .– Where an employee dies in service, Management will grant a sum not exceeding
Rs. 100,000/- (Rupees Hundred Thousand only) to be used for the funeral expenses of staff and workforce.
32. Personal Accident Insurance.– The Company will continue to cover all staff employees with  a 24 hour Personal Accident
Insurance Policy of Rs. 1,000,000/- or 48 times the wage, whichever is higher. Natural Death will be covered in a sum of Rs. 35 0,000/-
47. 5% of the additional  premium on account of the Natural Death cover will be paid by the employee concerned. The Company will pay
the balance premium.
33. Union Meetings.– The Union may with the agreement of the Company hold committee meetings and general meetings of the
Union within the Company premises at such places and times  as agreed by Management. Persons who are not in employment of the
Company shall not attend such meetings without the written Agreement of the Company.
34. Union Office.– The Company has provided accommodation for a Union office at No. 45, Lukmanjee Square, Colombo 14. If
this premises is required by the Company for Company expansion, the Union agrees to vacate the premises and Management agrees t o
provide of pay for alternate office accommodation. The Office will be used only for the business of the Branch Union.
35. Union's Annual General Meeting.– (a) To enable the members of the Union to attend and be present throughout the Annual
General Meeting of the Branch Union, Management agrees to release the members of the Union at 1.00 p.m. and members at Horana factory
will be given a full days leave on the day of the Annual General Meeting.
(b) Members of the Working Committee will be granted one day's duty leave each year for the Annual General Meeting of the
Parent Union.
36. Deductions to be within legal limits.– In granting loans to an employee or making deductions from his/her salary, the Company
will observe the rules regarding the legal limits of authorised deductions. The Company will take into consideration the actual pay received
(after all deductions) during the course of the two years preceding, to ascertain whether such proposed deductions are likely to exceed the
legal limits.
If in the opinion of the Company, such deductions are likely to exceed the legal limits, the Company shall not grant such loans or agree
to make any deductions.
The Company’s decision in this regard will be final. Deductions will be made in such order of priority as the Company shall decide.
37. Loans to Thrift and Credit Society.– The Company agrees to use its good offices to help the Co-operative Thrift and Credit
Society to be operated independently and obtain loans from the People’s Bank, whenever the Company considers it desirable.
38. Grievance handling procedure.–
(a) Where an employee covered and bound by the Agreement wishes to make representations to Management, in respect of an
individual grievance, dispute or other matter, such employee shall, in the first instance, discuss the matter with his
immediate superior.
(b) If in the opinion of the employee the matter is not satisfactorily settled by his immediate superior, the matter may then be
discussed with the Manager to whom his immediate superior is responsible.
(c) If the matter is, in the opinion of the employee not satisfactorily settled at stage (b) such employee may discuss the matter
with the Industrial Relations Manager and if he so desires with a representative from the branch union.
(d) If the matter is, in the opinion of the employee not satisfactorily settled at the level of the Head of Department the
employee concerned together with the representatives of the Branch and/or Parent Union, if he so desires shall, discusses
2A – G18002

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
the matter with the Director responsible and the Director – Human Resource.
(e) In the event of the matter not being satisfactorily settled at stage (d), the Branch Union may, through the Parent Union take
the matter to the Board of Directors of the Company.
(f) Where there is a dispute between two employees of different departments, either of such employees may take up such
dispute through his superiors in like manner.
39. General Matters.– The Union may, from time to time, make representations to the Company on general matters concerning its
membership.
The Company will decide whether such matters should be discussed and if discussion on any matter it thought desirable, Management
may summon a meeting for such purpose.
40. Trade Union Action.– During the period of this Agreement, the Union hereby undertakes not to seek or vary or alter any of the
terms and conditions covered by this Agreement and also expressly undertakes not to engage in strikes or any other form of Trade Union
actions in respect of a dispute, but will have such disputes settled in accordance with Clause 43(a).
41. Withdrawal of Benefits.– In the event of the Union (or any employee bound by this agreement), doing any act or acts which are
contrary to this Agreement and thereby committing such a breach of this Agreement or any part thereof, the Company shall be at liberty to
withdraw all or any of the benefits granted under this Agreement or terminate the Agreement by giving notice of one month.
Where benefits are withdrawn under this section and the matter is referred to an arbitrator for a decision under Clause 43 and such
arbitrator determines that such withdrawal of benefits was unjustified in terms of his Agreement, the Company shall pay such benefit in arrears.
42. Suspension and Inquires.– The employee shall furnish in writing to the employer, the answer of explanation to the charges
perferred against such employee, within 3 (three) clear working days, after the date of show cause notice, provided however, that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the written answer of
explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an empolyee to the employer. The employer shall grant such request
for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
After holding an inquiry the Employer shall notify the employee if the findings on each of the charges in the show cause notice and
the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if an Employer fails to make an order except for reasons beyond the control
of the Employer  on the charges in the show cause notice within 30 working days from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the
employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee in respect of such
charges shall be drawn.
In the case of suspension of an employee, the employee will be entitiled to half his normal remuuneration after 10 working days from
the date of suspension till a decision is made.
The management shall have the right to suspend an employee without pay either pending the conclusion of the disciplinary inquiry
process or by way of punishment.
The employer shall make an order within 90 days of the date of suspension of the employee, unless he/she is prevented from so doing
by  reaseons of the employee’s  own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the Management and
the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of 90 days be extended for such further time as may be agreed.
43. Arbitration.– (a) Subject to the provisions of Clause 4 (a) and (b) it is hereby agreed that during the term of this Agreement, any
dispute whatsoever, which has not been settled by negotiations between Management  and the Union, whether such dispute concerns the
terms of this Agreement shall be referred to arbitration under the Industrial Dispute Act. The Union and Management shall agree on a clear
statement of the matter  in dispute, if necessary with the assistance of the Commissioner of Labour.
If the choice of the Arbitrator or the Statement of the matter in dispute cannot be agreed to, either party may make an application to
the Commissioner of Labour to determine the statement of the matter in dispute and refer such matter to such Arbitrator as he may nominate.
Any dispute regarding the interpretations of this Agreement shall also be referred in like manner to arbitration.
Both parties agree to accept and be bound by the verdict of the Arbitrator.
(b) If a dispute arises from the  action taken by Employer in relation to an employee or a group of employees that in the opinion
of the Union will undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union or its members, the Union will in the first
instance discuss the dispute with the Employer with a view to bring about and amicable settlement.
If the Union is not satisfied with the discussion and the explanation given by the employer, the Union may take any form of trade
union action. The Union will inform the employer before such action is taken. The employer  reserves the right to take such steps as it may
deem fit.


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
7A


<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013


<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fþoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'07'19
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.07.2013
9A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
08 – 251