

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 10.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 08,  2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 5th September, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT SCHEME
FOR  MEDIA  PERSONNEL
ACT,  No. 29 OF 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
Act, No. 29 of 2006
1
[Certified on 5th September, 2006]
L .D. — O. 61/2005
A
N  ACT  TO  ESTABLISH  AND  MAINTAIN  A  SOCIAL  SECURITY  BENEFIT SCHEME
FOR  MEDIA  PERSONNEL ; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  OPERA TION AND  CONTROL
OF  THE  SOCIAL  SECURITY  BENEFIT  SCHEME  BY  THE  SOCIAL  SECURITY
B OARD ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Social Security Benefit
Scheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall
come into operation on the date on which this Act is certified
as an Act of Parliament and the other provisions shall come
into operation on such date as the Minister may appoint, by
Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the
“appointed date”).
PART I
E
STABLISHMENT  OF  A  BENEFIT  SCHEME  FOR  MEDIA  PERSONNEL
2. There shall be established according to the provisions
of this Act, a scheme which shall be called the Social Security
Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel (hereinafter referred to
as the “Benefit Scheme”)
3. The object of the Benefit Scheme shall be, to grant
benefits by way of social security benefits to Media Personnel
employed in media organizations.
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Employees
Provident Fund (Special Provisions) Law, No. 6 of 1975, any
person who –
(a) is a media person employed in a media organization;
and is–
Short title
and date of
operation.
Establishment of
the Benefit
Scheme for
Media Personnel.
Object of the
Benefit Scheme.
Eligibility to join
the Benefit
Scheme.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
 Act, No. 29 of 2006
(i) a media person confirmed in such employment
in such organisation;  or
(ii) a media person employed on contract in such
organisation; or
(iii) a freelance media person employed in such
organisation;
(b) is not less than eighteen years of age and not more
than fifty years of age; and
(c) is or is not as the case may be, a contributor to the
Employees Provident Fund, established under the
Employees Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958,
shall be entitled to join the Benefit Scheme on a voluntary
basis:
Provided however, any media person who is not less than
fifty years of age and not more than fifty five years of age on
the date of commencement of this Act, shall, also be entitled
to join the Benefit Scheme, notwithstanding the fact that
such person has not fulfilled the requirements of paragraph
(b) of this section:
Provided further that, any media person who is a member
of , or who contributes to, any pension scheme established
by any other written Law, shall not be entitled to join the
Benefit Scheme established by section 2 of this Act.
5. (1) A media person who joins the Benefit Scheme
(hereinafter referred to as the “contributor”) shall be entitled
to periodic  benefits in such amounts as may be calculated in
the manner prescribed.
(2) In prescribing the basis of calculation of the amount
of the benefits payable, the period during which contributions
were made, the age of the contributor and the total amount
contributed by the contributor, shall be taken into account.
Benefits under
the Benefit
Scheme.

<!-- page 4 -->

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
Act, No. 29 of 2006
3
6. (1) A contributor shall be entitled to receive a
prescribed amount of the benefits under the Benefit Scheme
as calculated in the manner set out in section 5, in monthly
instalments, upon reaching the age of sixty years and shall
continue to receive such monthly benefits up to the end of
the month in which the contributor dies.
(2) In the event of the death of a contributor who has
commenced receiving the monthly benefits under the Benefit
Scheme before he reaches eighty years of age —
(a) where there is a surviving spouse —
(i) who is not a beneficiary or contributor to any
other pension scheme or benefit scheme, such
spouse shall be entitled to receive the monthly
benefits in the same manner the deceased
contributor would have received the same had
he lived till he reaches eighty years of age;
(ii) who is a beneficiary or  contributor to any other
pension scheme or benefit scheme, such spouse
shall be entitled to receive such amount of
contributions as remain unpaid out of the total
amount of contributions, together with interest
thereon as determined by the Board taking into
consideration the banking rates prevailing at
the relevant time; and
(b) where there is no surviving spouse—
(i) if there is a child under twenty- one years of
age, such child; or
(ii) if there is more than one child under twenty-
one years of age, each such child in equal
proportions,
shall be entitled to receive the monthly benefits
payable to the spouse under subsection (2) (a) (i)
above.
When
benefits are
payable.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
 Act, No. 29 of 2006
(3) On the death or remarriage of the spouse, the monthly
benefits payable to such spouse under subsection (2) (a) (i)
above shall cease to be paid and the child or children as the
case may be of the deceased contributor, who are under twenty-
one years of age shall become entitled to receive the monthly
benefits payable to such spouse prior to the death or remarriage
of the spouse.
(4) The monthly benefits payable to the child or children
as the case may be of the contributor under subsection (3)
shall cease on their marriage or on their attaining the age of
twenty-one years, whichever event occurs earlier:
Provided that where the child or children are certified by
a duly constituted medical board to be permanently disabled,
the benefits payable to such child or any of such children as
the case may be, shall cease only on the death of such child
or children, as the case may be.
(5) Where a contributor who has commenced receiving
the monthly benefits dies before he reaches eighty years of
age with no surviving spouse or children under twenty- one
years of age, the amount left unpaid from the total amount of
contributions made by such contributor together with interest
thereon as determined by the Board taking into consideration
the banking rates prevailing at the relevant time, shall be
paid to his immediate relatives by blood in such proportion
and in such order of priority as is specified in Schedule I
hereto.
(6) In the event of the death of the contributor before he
becomes entitled to receive the benefits under the Benefit
Scheme, the total amount of contributions made by such
contributor up to the date of his death shall be paid to his
immediate blood relatives in such proportion and in such
order of priority as is specified in Schedule II hereto.
7. The Minister may with a view to encouraging media
personnel to join the Benefit Scheme, in consultation with
the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, prescribe by
regulation a percentage which may be permitted as a rebate
or a discount, as the case may be, on the contributions to be
paid by contributors.
Rebates on
contributions.

<!-- page 6 -->

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
Act, No. 29 of 2006
5
PART II
M ANAGEMENT  OF  THE  BENEFIT  SCHEME
8. The Social Security Board established under the
Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996 (hereafter referred
to as “the Board”) shall be responsible for the operation and
control of the Benefit Scheme, established under section 2 of
this Act.
9. (1) For the purpose of exercising and discharging
the powers and functions conferred on it by this  Act, the
Board shall have the power -
(a) to administer, manage and control the Benefit
Scheme;
(b) to maintain the required actuarial, financial and
operational reports in respect of the Benefit Scheme;
(c) to do all such other things as in the opinion of the
Board, are necessary for the proper discharge of its
functions or for the administration and
implementation of the Benefit Scheme.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Board to obtain the
recommendations and observations of the Sri Lanka Working
Journalists’ Association established under Sri Lanka Working
Journalists (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 1987, with relation
to the enrolment of contributors to the  Benefit Scheme and
on any other matter which it deems necessary.
10. The Board shall on enrolment of any person as a
contributor to the Benefit Scheme, issue him with a Benefit
Scheme Policy, setting out the contribution to be made by
him, the terms and conditions of such Policy and the benefits
to which he is entitled in terms of the Policy issued to him.
Social Security
Board to operate
and control the
Benefit Scheme.
Powers, duties
and functions of
the Board.
The Board to
issue Policy to
each contributor.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
 Act, No. 29 of 2006
11. (1) The date before which contributions are payable
by a contributor shall be specified in the Benefit Scheme
Policy and any contributor who fails to pay ten consecutive
instalments on or before such date shall forfeit the benefits
under the Benefit Scheme Policy issued to him.
(2) Where any contributor has forfeited the benefits under
the Benefits Scheme Policy issued to him, the Board shall
issue a notice to that effect to such contributor.
(3) A contributor shall have right to appeal to the Board
to validate his Benefit Scheme Policy and the Board shall
validate such Policy if it is satisfied that the reasons for failure
to pay the instalments were beyond the control of the
contributor.
(4) Where the Board on appeal, decides to validate a
Benefit Scheme Policy, the contributor shall be informed of
the date before which the arrears of instalments have to be
paid. The date of such payment shall be the operative date of
validation of such Policy.
(5) Any contributor aggrieved by the decision of the
Board, may appeal to the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance whose decision
thereon, shall be final and conclusive.
12. No benefit payable under the Benefit Scheme shall
be assigned or transferred and every such assignment or
transfer shall be absolutely null and void. No such benefit
shall be attached or taken in execution on account of any
debt or payment due from the person to whom such benefit is
payable.
Forfeiture of
Benefit Scheme
Policy.
Benefit not to be
assigned or
levied upon.

<!-- page 8 -->

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
Act, No. 29 of 2006
7
PART III
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  SOCIAL  SECURITY  BENEFIT  FUND  FOR
M EDIA  PERSONNEL
13. (1) There shall be established a Fund called the
Social Security Benefit Fund for Media Personnel (hereinafter
referred to as “the Fund”)
(2) The initial capital of the Fund shall be one hundred
million rupees and shall be paid out of the Consolidated
Fund.
(3) The Board shall have the power to manage, control
and operate the Fund.
(4) There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time
to time by Parliament for the implementation of the
Benefit Scheme;
(b) all sums of money paid as contributions to the
Benefit Scheme by contributors;
(c) all sums of money earned as interest or profits from
investments of the Board;
(d) all sums of money received by the Board by way of
donations or otherwise, in the exercise, discharge
and performance of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act;
(e) all such sums of money received by the Benefit
Scheme by way of gifts, grants or donations from
any source whatsoever;
(f) all such sums of money that may be vested to the
Fund by any Government Department or Public
Corporation.
Social Security
Benefit Fund for
Media Personnel.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
 Act, No. 29 of 2006
(5) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
required to defray expenditure incurred by the Board in the
exercise, discharge and performance of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act.
14. All monies in the Fund which are not immediately
required by the Board may be invested in such manner and in
such securities as may be authorized by the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
15. (1) The Board may with the concurrence of the
Minister and the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
or in accordance with the terms of any authority given with
like concurrence, borrow by way of overdraft or otherwise or
negotiate and obtain on credit, such sums as the Board may
require for meeting the obligations of the Board and for
administering and implementing the Benefit Scheme:
Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstanding
in respect of the loans raised by the Board under this
subsection shall not at any time, exceed such sums as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(2) The Board may, with the consent of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance, borrow money otherwise
than by way of loans under subsection (1), for all or any of
the following purposes :—
(a) the requisition or acquisition of any movable or
immovable property required for the use of the
Board;
(b) the repayment of any money borrowed under
subsection (1).
16. (1) The financial year of the Board shall be the
calendar year.
Investment of
monies.
Borrowing
powers.
Financial
year and
audit of
accounts of
the Board.

<!-- page 10 -->

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
Act, No. 29 of 2006
9
(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to be
kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Board.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to the audit of accounts of the Board.
17. The Fund shall be deemed, for the purposes of
section 34 (2) (b) (v) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of
2006, to be a Fund established by the Government of Sri
Lanka.
18. For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared
that the provisions of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 shall
apply to the Board.
PART IV
G
ENERAL
19. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of all matters which are stated or required by this Act to be
prescribed or in respect of which regulations are required by
this Act to be made, including—
(a) the regulation, administration and management of
the Benefit Scheme;
(b) conditions governing the default of payment of
contributions by contributors, surrender of policy
and loss of eligibility of a contributor;
(c) the procedure for the transaction of business by the
Board; and
(d) the termination or forfeiture of the policy.
Application of
Inland Revenue
Act, No. 10 of
2006 to the
Board.
Application of
Act, No. 38 of
1971.
Regulations.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
 Act, No. 29 of 2006
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient be published in the Gazette  and shall come
into operation on the date of such publication  or on such
later date as may be specified therein.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for approval. Every regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to the validity
of anything previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so
deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.
20. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—
(a) against the Board for any act which in good faith is
done or is purported to be done by the Board under
this Act ; or
(b) against any member of the Board or officer, servant
or agent of the Board for any act which in good faith
is done or purported to be done by him, under this
Act or on the direction of the Board.
(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Board before any Court
shall be paid out of the Fund and any cost paid to or recovered
by the Board  in any such suit shall be credited to such Fund.
(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or posecution
brought  against him before any Court in respect of any act
which is done or purported to be done by him under this Act
or on the direction of the Board shall, if the Court holds that
such act was done in good  faith, be paid out of Fund unless
such expense  is recovered by him in such proceedings.
Protection for
action taken
under this Act,
or on the
direction of the
Board.

<!-- page 12 -->

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
Act, No. 29 of 2006
11
21. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
22. For the purpose of this Act, unless the context
otherwise requires—
“media person” means a person who being a journalist
is engaged in the gathering of, preparation and
dissemination of news andinformation and
comments on such news or information, through
any medium of communication inclusive of the
print and electronic media.
SCHEDULE I Section 6 (5)
The proportion in which the balance amount of contributions that
remains unpaid are payable when there is no surviving spouse or no
legitimate children under twenty one years of age shall be –
(a) The surviving legitimate children above twenty-one years of
age in equal shares ;
(b) if there are no surviving legitimate children over twenty-one
years of age,—
(i) if there is more than one surviving parent, be paid to the
surviving parents, in equal proportions ;
(ii) if there is only one surviving parent, be paid to that
parent in its entirety ;
(iii) in the absence of parents, if there are more than one
surviving brothers and sisters be paid to the surviving
brothers and sisters, in equal proportions ;
(iv) if there is only one surviving brother or sister, be paid to
that brother or sister as the case may be, in its entirety.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
an inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
 Act, No. 29 of 2006
SCHEDULE II Section 6 (6)
The proportion in which the total contributions made by the con-
tributor are payable under subsection (6) of section 6, and the order of
priority shall be—
(a) if there is a surviving spouse and legitimate children-
(i) fifty per centum to the surviving spouse ; and
(ii) balance fifty per centum to be shared by the surviving
legitimate children of the deceased contributor, in equal
proportions ;
(b) if there is no surviving spouse, it shall be shared in its entirety
and in equal proportions by the surviving legitimate children
of the deceased ;
(c) if there is no surviving spouse or surviving legitimate chil-
dren-
(i) if there is more than one surviving parent, be paid to the
surviving parents, in equal proportions ;
(ii) if there is only one surviving parent, be paid to that
parent, in its entirety ;
(iii) if there are no surviving parent and there are more than
one surviving brothers or sisters, be paid to the surviving
brothers and sisters, in equal proportions ;
(iv) if there is only one surviving brother or sister, be paid to
that brother or sister, in its entirety.

<!-- page 14 -->

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel
Act, No. 29 of 2006
13
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.