

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2045
2045
wxl 1"936 - 2015 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'10'09
No. 1,936 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 09, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2048
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2050
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th October, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th
October,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,935 of 02.10.2015 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2046
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2047
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2048
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Amendment of Closing date of Applications for Recruitment of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths of the
Registrar General’s Department
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar,  for the
division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 1926 of 30.07.2015 is extended as 09.11.2015.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette Notification remain unchanged.
Registrar General.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Dompe Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
of Siyane Koralaya East Division and General, District Secretariat, Gampaha.
Births and Deaths of Dompe Division
10-491
–––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Amendment of Closing date of Applications for Recruitment of Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths of the
Registrar General’s Department
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriages, Births and Deaths Registr ar, for the
division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 1926 of 30.07.2015 is extended as 09.11.2015.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette Notification remain unchanged.
Registrar General.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Application should be sent
Gampaha Wattala Post of Muslim Registrar of Marriages of District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
Aluthkuru Korale South Division in General, District Secretariat, Gampaha.
Wattala-Mabole Area
10-490
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2049
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages
KURUNEGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries.
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 09th November,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th September, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Pannala Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Elabadagama Area, Katugampala General, District Secretariat,
Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala
Kurunegala Bingiriya Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Karadapattuwa Koralaya Area, General, District Secretariat,
Katugampala Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala
Kurunegala Ganewatta Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Thittawelgala Area, Hiriyala General, District Secretariat,
Hathpattuwa Division Kurunegala
10–360

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2050
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND
HEALTH
Competitive Examination for the admission to the
Sri Lanka School of Animal Husbandry – 2015
TWO YEAR DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY (FOR
THE ACADEMIC YEARS 2016/2018)
APPLICATIONS are being called for the competitive examination
for the admission of students for the academic years 2016/2018, to
follow the Diploma Course in Animal Husbandry conducted by the
Department of Animal Production and Health. This examination is
due to be held in Kandy in December, 2015 in Sinhala and Tamil
Medium.
02. Two year Diploma Course :
2.1 The course will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil Medium.
2.2 The Diploma Course is purely a vocational training
course (in case of obtaining a government employment,
the extra qualifications specified in the Scheme of
Recruitment relevant to the particular post are essential
additionally to these professional qualifications.)
2.3 Lodging  will be provided for the students during the
period of training but students should supply additional
finance for their extra requirements.
2.4 Classes may be held on Saturdays and Sundays and
students will be allowed to leave their hostel in one
weekend of the month.
03. Qualifications to be fulfilled at the Admission :
3.1 (a) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) in not more than two
sittings with six (06) subjects including four (04)
credit passes in language (Sinhala/Tamil), Maths,
Science and one more subject. At this, should have
passed minimum of 05 subjects in one sitting with
credit passes for three subjects ;
and
should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) in three subjects in one
sitting Botany, Chemistry, Physics, Zoology, Agri-
Science and Biology. (priority will be given at selecting
the applicants with this qualification) ;
or
(b) Should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Ordinary Level) in not more than two
sittings with six subjects including 04 credit passes
in Sinhala/Tamil, Maths, Science and one more
subject. At this, should have passed minimum of 05
subjects in one sitting with credit passes for three
subjects ;
and
should have passed the General Certificate of
Education (Advanced Level) in two subjects in one
sitting Botany, Chemistry, Physics, Zoology, Agri-
Science and Biology. Applicants with these
qualifications will be selected as on the availability
of the vacancies, subsequently selecting the
applicants of 3.1( a) ;
3.2 The candidates should be not less than 17 years and not
more than 25 years at the closing date of the applications.
3.3 Applications will be rejected if the candidate have not
completed the required quaifications and/or are not
within the required age limit.
3.4 Applicants with pending results of G. C. E. (A/L) are
not qualified to apply for this. The students those who
are following a two year course in Animal Husbandry at
a Government Department or a Government Institution
are not eligible to follow this course.
04. Procedure of Applications :
4.1 The applications should be prepared by the applicant
on a paper size A4 as per the specimen application
form appearing at the end of this notice. Applications
which are not duly completed will be rejected without
any notice.
4.2 The examination fee is Rs. 150. The fee should be
credited to the Bank of Ceylon account number
057100179027275 of Director General of Animal
Production and Health and original of the receipt obtained
thus should be affixed in the application form and only
the edge of the receipt should be affixed in the
application. Further, photostat copy of the receipt
should be kept for your own safety. Examination fee is
not refundable in any reason. The fee paid for this
examination is unable to be transferred to another
examination. The application without the affixed receipt
will be rejected without any information.
4.3 Completed applications should be sent only by
registered post to reach the Director (Human Resource
Development). Department of Animal Production and
Health, P . O. Box 13, Peradeniya on or before 09.11.2015.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2051
4.4 On the top left corner of the envelope containing the
application "Admission to the School of Animal
Husbandry-2016/2018" to be clearly mentioned.
4.5 The copies of the educational certificates and the birth
certificate should be attached to the application. The
application which do not comply with this reqquirement
will be rejected.
05. Mode of Selection :
5.1 Selections of students will be done by a written
examination and interview by this Department.
5.2 Syllabus for the written examination is as follows :–
(i) Animal Husbandry.– Multiple choice and short
questions prepared according to the section of
Animal Husbandry in Agriculture syllabus
prescribed for (G . C. E. (O/L) - 1 hour.
(ii) General knowledge - 1 hour.
5.3 Any kind of allowance will not be paid in case of
appearing for the written test or the interview or both.
5.4 Candidates will be required to prove their identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor.
For this purpose any of the following documents will
be accepted :-
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport issued within the period of
three years on the date of examination.
5.5 If any information herein provided by an applicant is
found to be untrue or incorrect his/her studentship will
be terminated forthwith and he/she is liable to pay the
expenses incurred by the Department on account of
his/her training to the Director General, Animal
Production and Health. director General, Department
of Animal Production and Health reserves the right to
determine the expenses.
06. Attestation of signature before the examination is
compulsory, candidates signature should be attested by Head of
the School/Institution, a Head of a retired Head of Government,
Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of Peace, Commissioner
of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law or Notary Public, a Commissioned
Officer of the Army, a permanent government or local government
staff officer in receipt of an annual salary of R.s 240,360 or over,
the incumbent of a Buddhist vihara, a Nayake Buddhist monk, the
incumbent of a place of worship of any other religion or a religious
dignitary of standing of any other religion.
07. If Sinhala/Tamil or English versions of the Gazette notification
are comparative the Sinhala versions will be accepted.
Dr. D. R. T. G . R
A THNAYAKE,
Director General of Animal
Production and Health (Acting).
.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13,
Gatambe, Peradeniya.
APPLICATION
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
SRI LANKA SCHOOL OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
TWO YEAR DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY - 2016/2018
Language medium in which the
applicant wishes to sit :
01. Name in full (in legible letters) :––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :––––––––––.
03. N. I. C. No. :––––––––––.
04. Address :––––––––––.
05. D. S. Division :––––––––––. District :––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
07. Age as at 09.11.2015 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications :
09. (i) G . C. E. (O/L) :
Grade
Subject (Ordinary/Credit/ Y ear Index No.
Distinction)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2052
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) :
Grade
Subject (Ordinary/Credit/ Year Index No.
Distinction)
1.
2.
3.
4.
(The copies of the educational certificates should be attached.
The applications without the educational certificates will be
rejected).
10. Post office to which the fee was paid and the receipt No. :
––––––––––.
(Please attach the bank receipt to the application enabling to
detach it when necessary)
11. Last School/Institution attended :––––––––––.
12. Date of leaving :––––––––––.
13. Experience in Animal husbandry gives the particular :––––––.
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
14. Experience in the Rural Development/Agriculture/Social Service/
Sports :––––––––––.
(Copies of the certificates should be attached)
15. Names and addresses of two referees :
01. .............................. 02. .............................
.............................. .............................
.............................. .............................
I do hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me
are true and correct according to my knowledge. I am also aware
that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or
incorrect after the selection my studentship will be terminated and
I am liable to pay any expenses incurred on account of my training.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note :
Copies of the certificates/documents attached herewith.
1.
2.
I know the candidate Mr./Mrs./Ms ...................................
personally. I hereby certify that the receipt of paying examination
fee is affixed here and placed his/her signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
10–434
––––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS,  SRI  LANKA
Recruitment to Grade III Posts of Management Assistant
Technological Segment 3 Service Category - 2015
APPLICATIONS are being called from qualified Sri Lankan citizens
for recruitment to the following posts of Management Assistant
Technological Segment 3 Service Category of the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
Post No. of Vacancies
1. Offset Litho Printing Machine Operator 10
2. Letter Press Machine Operator 02
3. Preprinting Planner 01
4. Computer Typesetter and Printing Designer 07
5. Printing Finisher 02
6. Printing Mechanic 02
01. The qualified candidates will be selected to fill the vacancies
of Grade III posts of Management Assistant Technological Segment
3 Service Category as per the results obtained at a structured
interview conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations
only in Colombo.
02. Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular No.
06/2006(IV) dated 24.08.2007 the monthly salary scale of Grades
III, II and I of the Management Assistant Technological Segment 3
Service Category is as follows :–
Rs. 14,425 -10x145 -11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 23,665 to
exceed Rs. 15,875 promotion to Grade II, to exceed
Rs. 17,745 promotion to Grade I are necessary.
03. Service Conditions.– This post is permanent and pensionable.
Relevant contributions shall be made to Widows'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme. These posts are limited to the
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka only. However the selected
candidates can be appointed to serve in any part of the island under

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2053
the department. The candidates recruited to Grade III of this service
category through the existing structured interview, will be subjected
to a probationary period of three years.
04. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are required
for the recruitment to Grade III posts of Management Assistant
Technological Segment 3 Service Category.
(a) Shall be a Sri Lankan citizen,
(b) Shall be of excellent character and sound health,
(c) Shall not be less than 18 years and not more than 35
years of age as at the closing date of applications. "Thus
whose birthday is on or before 06.11.1997 and on or
after 06.11.1980 are only eligible to apply for this".
(d) Shall have completed the following educational
qualifications :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Shall have passed six (06) subjects at once with
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English language,
Mathematics and two (02) other subjects at the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
(ii) The post Computer Typesetter and Designer for
Printing requires a credit pass for English Language
at G. C. E (O/L) Examination, in addition to the
above (i) qualification.
(e) Professional Qualifications :
(i) Shall have obtained level 5 of National V ocational
Qualifications (NVQ) recognized by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission with regard
to the fields of Printing Technology and/or Electrical
Technology or an equivalent certificate of the above
fields recognized by the Tertiary and Vocational
Education Commission for the post of Printing
Mechanic of Grade III of Class 3.
(ii) Shall have obtained level 5 of National V ocational
Qualification (NVQ) recognized by the Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission or an equivalent
certificate with regard to the respective field of each
post recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational
Education Commission for all other posts of Grade
III of Class 3.
(f) Physical fitness .– All candidates are expected to be
physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of the
post well and to serve in any part of the island and also
to be able to serve during day as well as night as and
when such service is required.
* It is compulsory to satisfy the due qualifications with
respect to the post on or before 06.11.2015 by all
applicants.
05. Examination Procedure. – This consists of a structured
interview and this will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media
and the applied medium could not be changed later.
Main areas of Awarding Marks Maximum
Marks
(i) Additional Educational Qualifications 30
(ii) Additional Professional Qualifications 30
(iii) Experience in the respective field 35
(iv) Skills displayed at the interview 05
Total Marks 100
* The Commissioner General of Examinations will approve
a detailed marking scheme to grant marks within the
boundary of maximum marks allocated for main areas of
awarding such marks indicated in the above table.
* The existing vacancy will be filled as per the order of
highest marks obtained by the applicants at the
structured interview.
06. Penalties for providing false information .– Accurate
information shall be given with utmost care, when perfecting the
application form. If it is found that a certain candidate is ineligible
as per the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage, prior to, during or
after the structured interview. When it appears that a certain
applicant has submitted false information he/she can be dismissed
from the public service at any time.
07. Examination Fee.– The examination fee is Rs. 250. This fee
can be paid only to a post office or sub post office in the island
under the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations on or before 06.11.2015. The receipt issued in this
regard shall be affixed on the relevant cage in the application, so as
not to be detached. (Shall retain a photocopy of the receipt for
future benefit). The examination fee will not be refunded in any
case and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
08. Applications must be prepared using A4 (21cm x 29cm)
(normal half sheet) size paper in such a way that :
(a) Paragraph numbers 01 to 02 appear on the first page.
(b) Paragraph numbers 03 to 08 appear on the second
page.
(c) Paragraph number 09 to 11 appear on the third page
and the rest of paragraphs appear on the other pages.
(d) When preparing the application, it is necessary to
indicate the name of the post as the heading in English
too, in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and
in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
* The applications that do not comply with the specimen
or that have not been completed properly and incomplete
applications will be rejected without any notice.
Applicants shall bear the loss incurred due to incomplete

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2054
applications. It will be useful to retain a photocopy of
the application and the applicant shall ensure whether
the perfected application is in compliance with the
specimen form appeared the Gazette Notification, as
otherwise, the application may be rejected.
8.1 All applicants who have paid the prescribed examination
fees and forwarded their duly perfected applications with
the respective receipt on or before the prescribed date
will receive the admission cards to appear for the
structured interview by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on the presumption that only those who
possess such qualifications as indicated in the Gazette
Notification have applied. Issue of an admission card to
an applicant to appear for the structured interview does
not necessarily mean that the applicant has fulfilled the
required qualifications for this post. The candidature of
those applicants who are found not to possess the required
qualifications at the interview where the qualifications as
per the Gazette Notification are checked, will be cancelled.
8.2 “Structured Interview for recruitment to Grade III posts
of Management Assistant Technological Segment 3 Service
Category - 2015” shall be mentioned on the top left hand
corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
8.3 Candidate’s Signature on the application shall be attested
by a principal of a government school, Justice of Peace,
Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned
Officer of three Armed Forces, an officer in the police
service holding a Gazetted post or by an officer who
holds a permanent government post drawing an annual
salary of Rs. 240,360 or above.
The closing date for the application is 06.11.2015. Duly
perfected applications shall be sent by registered post on
or before that date to the following address :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
9. Appearing for the structured interview.– Once the admission
cards are issued, a press notice information such issuance will be
published by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. Applicants
who do not receive their admission cards, even after 2 or 3 days of
such notification shall notify the Department of Examinations, Sri
Lanka in the manner specified i the advertisement. When notifying
so, such applicants shall mention the name of the structured
interview, full name, address and National Identity Card Number
and in case of applicants outside Colombo, it is advisable to fax
your letter of request providing the above information with a fax
number to which the copy of the admission card for the structured
interview shall be faxed. Further it will be advantageous to keep in
hand the copies of the application form and the payment receipt,
with the receipt of registration kept at your possession to prove
your particulars.
10. The candidate shall prove their identity to the satisfaction
of the structured interview board by providing either of the following
documents :
(i) A valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid Passport.
11. Candidates of the structured interview are bound by the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting the structured interview. He or she
will be liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations for breach of such rules.
12. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by the
Commissioner General of Examinations. All applicants are bound
to comply with the general examination rules and regulations
mentioned in this Gazette.
W. M. N. J. P
USHPAKUMARA,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Palawatta, Battaramulla.
wdo¾Y whÿïm;%h
Y%S ,xld úNd. fomd¾;fïka;=j
l<ukdlrK iyldr ;dlaIK LKavh 3 fiajd .Kfha III fY%a‚fha ;k;=rej,g n|jd .ekSfï jHqy.; iïuqL mÍlaIKh - 2015
STRUCTURED INTERVIEW FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III POSTS OF MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT TECHNOLOGICAL
SEGMENT 3 SERVICE CATEGORY - 2015
(Indicate clearly the correct symbol/number in the cage provided)
(For office use)
Language medium to appear for the structured interview :
Post Title Preference
Sinhala - 2 (i) Offest Litho Printing Machine Operator
Tamil - 3 (ii) Letter Press Machine Operator
English - 4 (iii) Preprinting Planner
(Write the relevant number in the cage) (iv) Computer Typesetter and Printing Designer
(v) Printing Finisher
(vi) Printing Mechanic
(Mark your preference in the box provided above using the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2055
1.0 1.1 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Ex. : PERERA  A. B. C.
1.2 Full Name :––––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
1.3 Full Name :––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
1.5 Sex : Female - 1/Male - 0
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Address to which the admission card shall be sent :––––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala)
3.0 3.1 Date of Birth : Y ear : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as on 06.11.2015 : Y ears : Months : Days :
3.3 Telephone Number :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
Details of the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
5.0 Professional Qualifications :
5.1 It is compulsory to submit a letter to the structured interview board obtained from the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission confirming the respective NVQ level of each certificate you forward :
Course Year followed Technical Institution NVQ Level
6.0 Experience gained in the relevant field :––––––––––––––.
7.0 Other educational and professional qualifications :––––––––––––––.
8.0 Have you ever been convicted by a Court of Law ? :––––––––––––––.
(Indicate mark in the relevant cage) (In case ‘Yes’ give particulars)
Yes N o
9.0 Details of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee :
(i) Post office to which the examination fee was paid :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No and Date :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2015
2056
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached.
10.0 Certification of the applicant :
(a) I solemnly declare that the particulars provided by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. I agree
to bear the loss that could be incurred due to unfilled and/or inaccurately filled sections in the application. Further I declare that
all sections herein are perfected accurately.
(b) I am aware that I will be liable to be disqualified prior to the appointment and to be dismissed subsequent to receiving the
appointment in case any information provided by me are proved to be false.
(c) Moreover I declare that I will abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting the structured interview.
(d) I will not alter any information provided herein later.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms ..................................................... who submits this application is known t o me personally
and that he/she place his/her signature in my presence on .................... and he/she has paid the relevant examination fee  and affixed the
receipt of payment on this application.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
12.0 The certification of the Department Head : (only for employees serving at Public/Provincial Public Sector/State Corporations)  :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Ms .............................................. serving as a/an ..................................... at this Ministry/Department/
Institution is recommended and forwarded herewith and necessary actions can be taken to release him/her from the service at thi s
institution in case he/she is selected for the post concerned.
–––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Department Head.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––––.
(Confirm with the official frank)
10–335