

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2143
2143
wxl 1"836 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'11'08
No. 1,836 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 08, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2146
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2157
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—Parts I:III and II of the Gazette No. 1,835 of 01.11.2013 were not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th November, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
November, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2144
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2145
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2146
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
NUWARA  ELIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for this posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 09th Dec ember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
21st October, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya W alapane Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Walapane Division and General, District Secretariat,
Births and Deaths of Medapalatha Nuwara Eliya.
Division.
11–205
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Open Recruitment for the Post of Psychiatric Social Worker - Grade II in Service Category of (MN 05-2006A) of the
Segment 02 Officers - Field/Office
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the Sri Lankan citizens who have fulfilled the following qualifications to be recruited fo r the
existing vacancies of Psychiatric Social Worker - Grade II at the hospitals under the Ministry of Health.
01. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who obtained the highest marks on the basis of the results of Writen Examination
conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health or Institute approved by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health among the applicants

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2147
completed the qualifications mentioned in this notification will be recruited after refferring them to an interview by which th e physical
fitness and qualifications are inspected (Number of officers due to be recruited will be decided by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health
on the available vacancies and necessities of the Ministry)
02. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational qualifications :
(a) Should have obtained a Special Degree on Sociology, Social - Anthropology or Psychology ; or
(b) Should have obtained a Degree from a University approved by the University Grant Commission and should have
successfully completed a 06 months course on Psychiatric Social Works conducted by a Mental Health Institute under
the Ministry of Health, followed by a 02 years experience in a Mental Health Unit under the purview of specialist
Psychiatric.
(ii) Physical fitness.– Should be with good mental and physical health condition to be suited to serve in any part of the country.
(iii) Other :
* All the qualifications should be fulfilled as at the date mentioned in the notification calling for the applicatins, by the
applicants,
* Applicant should be a Sri Lankan citizen,
* Applicant should be with an excellent character.
03. Conditions on the recruitment and Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable should be contributed to the Widow/Widower and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) This appointment is subjected to a 03 years probationary period.
(iii) The relevant competence on state languages should be acquried within the probation period by the officers who have been
recruited in any other language except state languages.
(iv) Language competence in relevant standard should be acquired as per the P. A. Circular 07/2007 and consequential circulars.
(v) This appointment will be subjected to procedural rules of Public Service Commission. Financial Regulation and provisions
in the Establishments Code.
04. Age limit.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date.
05. Salary scale.– The monthly salary scale of MN 05-2006A is relevant to this post. Rs. 16,720 -10x320 - 11x365 -15x450 -
Rs. 30,685.
06. Written Test will be conducted on the following subjects :
Name of the Syllabus Time Maximum Cut off
question paper marks marks(average
 marks required
to be passed)
(1) Intelligence Test This expects the evaluation of the potential of the candidate 1 1/2 100 40%
to understand the meaning of the conclusions and hours
responses on the relevant question and the ability to
comprehend the relationships in between time and space
together with quantification
(2) Common Test This expects the evaluation of the applicant's awareness and 03 100 40%
(General comprehension on social, cultural, educational, political, hours
Knowledge Test) economical and other relevant factors that are existed in
the society and within the various global organization
environment in the whole world, regional and national
levels.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2148
07. Identification of the candidates.– Applicants who have submitted the duly filled applications in every manner will only be
invited for the written test.
The  following identity cards will be accepted to certify the identity at the written test :
01. Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons.
02. Valid Passport.
8. ( a) Applications should be sent to reach the following address by registered post on or before 06.12.2013. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected :
Secretary,
[Director (Admin.) Branch 6],
Ministry of Health,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
(b) A specimen of the application which should be submitted is given at the end of this notification.
Applications should be prepared using a paper of size A4 and cages from 01 to 03 should appear on the first side of the
page, cage 04 to 08 should appear on the second side and cage 09 to 10 should appear on the third side. The application
should be perfected in the hand writing of the candidate.
(c) The words "Application for the post of Psychiatric Social Worker" should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope in which application is enclosed.
(d) Candidate's signature in the applications should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/a Justice of the Peace/
A Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/a Notary Public/a Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an officer
holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service who gets a
annually consolidated salary more than Rs. 273,060.
(e) Every applicant should be the examination fee which is Rs. 500 by a money order addressed to the Secretary "Ministry
of Health, Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on no reason examination
fee shall be refunded.
(f) Officers who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the
respective Head of Department.
(g) Applications which are not in accordance with the specimen form of application will be rejected. No complaint on
misplace or delay of applications will be accepted.
09. Supplying false information.– Your candidateship will be cancelled if any information provided by you in the application is
reveled as false or inaccurate before the recruitment.
If such information is detected after the recruitment actions will be taken to dismiss by the service, subject to the further actions
with regard to this accordingly.
* Sinhala language statement will be effective if any inconsistency or contradictory is found among the Sinhala, Tamil and
English statements in this Gazette notification.
* Decision of the Health Secretary will be the  final for the matters arisen on the facts mentioned in this Gazette notification.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
20th October, 2013.
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2149
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT (OPEN) TO THE POST OF PSYCHIATRIC SOCIAL WORKER
OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - 01/Tamil - 02/English - 03)
Write the relevant number in the cage.
District of Residence :
01. 1.1 Name of the Applicant with Initials :
Mr./Mrs./ Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
E. g.– SILV A  A. B.
1.2 Name in Full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in Full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (Personal) :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Address (Personal) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.4 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(An Officer who is employed in Public Service/Provincial
Service/Corporation should mention his/her Official
Address. Change of address should be informed
immediately).
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at 01.01.2013 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Male/Female :–––––––––––.
06. Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(Qualifications under paragraph 04 of the notification)
Educational Qualifications/Professional Qualifications :––––––.
Experience :–––––––––––.
07. Particulars relevant to the receipt of the payment of examination
fee :
(i) The office to which the examination fee was paid :––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here as not to be detached Rs. 500
08. Certificate of the Applicant :
I solemnly declare that the information given herein is true and
correct. I agree that if any information herein is found to be incorrect
or false prior to the selection, my application will be rejected and if
so found so after selection, I am liable to be dismissed from service
without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
09. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............. is known to me personally
and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .................
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting.
Name in full :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
10. Certificate of Head of the Department/Institute (only for the
applicants in Public Service) :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................
has been serving in this Department/Provincial Council/Institute since
............................ and holds a pensionable/temporary post and he/
she has earned all the increments during the past ................ years,
and has not been subjected to a disciplinary punishment of any kind
(except being advised) and all the particulars given above were checked
referring to the records at this office and found correct. Furthermore,
I hereby state that he/she can/cannot be released from service if
selected, and that he/she placed the signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department/Institute.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Department :–––––––––––.
(Authenticate with Rubber Stamp)
(Should be certified by a rubber frank)
11–236

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2150
CORRECTION
MINISTRY  OF   HEALTH
Recruitment on Open basis to the Post of Psychologist (Officers in Field/in office Segment 01 Service Category)
IT is hereby informed that the closing date of applications that has been mentioned as 15.09.2013 by mistake in the Gazette Notification
published on 17.10.2013 should be corrected as 15.11.2013.
Dr. Y . D. NIHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Colombo 10.
11–235
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment for the Post of Nutritionist - Grade II of (MN05-2006A) in the Service Category
Officer Segment - 02 (Field/Office)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the Sri Lankan Citizens who have fulfilled following below mentioned qualifications for the
recruitment on Post of Nutritionist Grade II to the hospitals ruled by the Ministry of Health.
01. Method of Recruitment.– The Applicats who obtained the highest marks on the basis of the results of Written Examination
conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health or Institute approved by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health among the applicants
completed the qualifications mentioned in this notification will be recruited after refferring them to an interview by which th e physical
fitness and qualifications are inspected (Number of officers due to be recruited will be decided by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health
on the available vacancies and necessities of the Ministry).
02. Required Qualifications :
1. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have obtained a Special Degree with first class or second class along with the Chemistry as a subject and
should have obtained the relevant Degree from a University that is accepted by the University Grant Commission ;
or
(ii) (a) Should have obtained the Bsc. General Degree with a first class or second class along with the Chemistry as a
subject and should have obtained the relevant Degree from a University that is accepted by the University Grant
Commission ; and
(b) Should have obtained a Post Degree or Post Graduate Diploma on Food and Nutrition ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a special Degree (Food Technology and Nutrition) on Agriculture along with a pass as First
Class or Second Class and the relevant Degree should have obtained by a University that is accepted by the
University Grant Commission ; or
(iv) Should have obtained a Special Degree on Nutrition or Food Science from a University accepted by the University
Grant Commission.
2. Physical fitness.– Should be a person with good mental and physical health condition to be suited to be employed in any
part of the country.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2151
3. Others :
* Applicants should have fulfilled all Qualifications as at 01.01.2013,
* Applicants should be Sri Lankan Citizens,
* Applicant should have Excellent Characters.
03. Conditions on the Recruitment and Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and should be contributed to the Widow/Widower and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) This appointment is subjected to a 03 years probationary period.
(iii) The relevant competence on state languages should be acquried within the probation period by the officers who have been
recruited in any other language except state languages.
(iv) Language competence in relevant standard should be acquired as per the P. A. Circular 07/2007 and consequential circulars.
(v) This appointment is subjected to the pro visions of Public Service Commission. Procedural Rules Financial Regulations and
Establishments Code.
04. Age limit.– Applicants should not be exceeded the age limit of 35 years and should not be less than 21 years as at close of
applications.
05. Salary Scale.– The monthly salary scale of MN 05-2006A is relevant to this post. Rs. 16,720 -10x320 - 11x365 -15x450 -
Rs. 30,685.
06. Written Test will be conducted on the following subjects :
Name of the Syllabus Time Maximum Cut off
question paper marks marks(average
 marks required
to be passed)
(1) Intelligence Test This expects the evaluation of the potential of the candidate 1 1/2 100 40%
to understand the meaning of the conclusions and hours
responses on the relevant question and the ability to
comprehend the relationships in between time and space
together with quantification
(2) Common Test This expects the evaluation of the applicant's awareness and 03 100 40%
(General comprehension on social, cultural, educational, political, hours
Knowledge Test) economical and other relevant factors that are existed in
the society and within the various global organization
environment in the whole world, regional and national
levels.
07. Identification of the Candidates.– Applicants who have submitted the duly filled applications in every manner will only be
invited for the written test.
The  following identity cards will be accepted to certify the identity at the written test :
01. Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Persons' Registration.
02. Valid Passport.
08.(a) Applications should be sent on or before 06.12.2013 by registered post to reach the following address. The applications
received after the aforesaid date will be refused.
Secretary,
[Director (Admin.) Branch 6],
Ministry of Health,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero Road,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2152
(b) A specimen of the application that should be forwarded is shown at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared in A4 size papers as Section 01 to 03 are including in first page, Section 04 to 08 should be included in the second
page and Section 09 and 10 should be included in the third page and this should be completed by the own hand writing of
the relevant applicant.
(c) Application for the post of Nutritionist should be mentioned in the top left corner of the envelope containing the
application.
(d) The signature of relevant applicant should be authenticated by a Government Principal/Judge of the Peace/Commissioner
of Oath/Attorney-at-Law/Public Notary/Commissioned Officer of the three forces/An officer holding a gazetted post in
the Police Service or by an officer holding a permanent post in the Public Sector and drawing an annual consolidated salary
above Rs. 273,060.
(e) Every applicant should be the examination fee which is Rs. 500 by a money order addressed to the “Secretary” Ministry
of Health, “Suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on no reason examination
fee shall be refunded.
(f) Officers who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the
respective Head of Department.
(g) Applications which are not in accordance with the specimen form of application will be rejected. No complaint on
misplace or delay of applications will be accepted.
09. Supplying false information.– Your candidateship will be cancelled if any information provided by you in the application is
reveled as false or inaccurate before the recruitment.
If such information is detected after the recruitment actions will be taken to dismiss by the service, subject to the further actions
with regard to this accordingly.
* Sinhala language statement will be effective if any inconsistency or contradictory is found among the Sinhala, Tamil and
English statements in this Gazette notification.
* Decision of the Health Secretary will be the  final for the matters arisen on the facts mentioned in this Gazette notification.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAYATILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
20th October, 2013.
Colombo 10.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT (OPEN) TO THE POST OF NUTRITIONIST
OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
District of Residence :
Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - 01/Tamil - 02/English - 03)
Write the relevant number in the cage.
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :
Mr./Mrs./ Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
E. g.– SILV A A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (Personal) :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Address (Personal) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.4 Address (Official) :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(An officer who is employed in Public Service/Provincial
Service/Corporation should mention his/her official address.
Change of address should be informed immediately).

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2153
03. 3.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at 01.01.2013 :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Male/Female :–––––––––––.
06. Qualifications :–––––––––––.
(Qualifications under paragraph 04 of the notification)
Educational Qualifications/Professional Qualifications :––––––.
Experience :–––––––––––.
07. Particulars relevant to the receipt of the payment of examination
fee :
(i) The office to which the examination fee was paid :––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here as not to be detached Rs. 500
08. Certification of the Applicant :
I solemnly declare that the information given herein is true and
correct. I agree that if any information herein is found to be incorrect
or false prior to the selection, my application will be rejected and if
so found so after selection, I am liable to be dismissed from service
without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
09. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............. is known to me personally
and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .................
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting.
Name in full :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
10. Certificate of Head of the Department/Institute (only for the
applicants in Public Service) :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................
has been serving in this Department/Provincial Council/Institute since
............................ and holds a pensionable/temporary post and he/
she has earned all the increments during the past ................ years and
has not been subjected to a disciplinary punishment of any kind
(except being advised) and all the particulars given above were checked
referring to the records at this office and found correct. Furthermore,
I hereby state that he/she can/cannot be released from service if
selected and that he/she placed the signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department/Institute.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
Department :–––––––––––.
(Authenticate with Rubber Stamp)
(Should be certified by a rubber frank)
11–237
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2154
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th Dec ember,
2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd October, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Matara Kamburupitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Gangabadapattuwa North and General, District Secretariat, Matara.
Births and Deaths of Mapalana Division.
11–296
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Recruiting Book Binders – Grade III – 2013
REGISTRAR General’s Department invites applications for the
post of Book Binders service – Grade III.
02. Examination.– A Practical examination will be held on   14th
and 15th of  December 2013 by the Department of National Archives
for the applicants those who have fulfilled the qualifications
mentioned in para 06 of this Gazette notification.
The Registrar General is having power to be postponed or
cancelled this examination.
03. Service conditions.– The applicant will be recruited for the
post of Book Binders Grade III subject to the following conditions
and the general conditions which govern by the Public Service.
(i) This is a permanent and pensionable. Selected applicants
should be contributed for the W&O.P. ;
(ii) This will be governed by the establishment code, financial
regulations, general conditions in Public Service and also
the rules and regulations existing and issuing from time to
time. As so this will be governed by section 10 to 12 in
chapter 11 in establishment code and chapters in group 1
procedures of Public Service Commission of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) The officers  those who attach to the Public Service should
be in three (03) years probation period ;
(iv) The relevant language proficiency should be obtained
according to the Public Administration Circular 07/2007
and the subsequential ;
(v)  The candidate should get through E.B. examination including
both practical examination conduct by the institution
approved by the Registrar General and the interview conduct
by the Registrar General before passing a period of three
years of the appointment. Candidate will not be exempted
from E.B. upon the base of age.
04. Salary Scale.– PL – 02 – 2006 (A) Rs. 12,210 – 10 x130 –
10x145 – 10x160 – 12x170 – Rs. 18,600.  06/2006 (IV) P.A. circular
05.  Age Limit .– Age should not less than 18 years and not
exceed 45 years.
06. Qualifications .– The following Qualifications should be
fulfilled as at 29.11.2013 :–
(i) The candidate must be a citizen in Sri Lanka should have
moral character. All the candidates should have physical
and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island ;
(ii) The candidate should passed G.C.E. (O/L) examination
within two attempts at least six subjects (06) with two
credit passes (02) ;

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2155
(iii) The candidates should have obtained level two
qualification (NVQ2) in National V ocational Qualification
in the relevant field which approved by territorial and
vocational education commission with the competency
for the post of Book binders.
(iv) The candidate should have minimum one year experience
in a Book binding establishment.
07. Recruiting Procedure :
7.1 The applicant should be presented for the vocational
examination which conduct by the Department of
Archives the candidates should be obtained 40% marks
or more than that at the examination to get through the
examination. (see section 15 for examination procedure.)
7.2 The candidates those who got through the examination
will be directed to the interview board of Registrar General
or the board nominated by the Registrar General. The
candidate should be obtained 40% marks or more than
that to get through the interview.
7.3 The applicants those who have obtained maximum marks
will be recruited for the post of Book binder upon the
existing vacancies.
08 Examination fee.– Examination fee – Rs. 750.
This examination fees should be deposited to Registrar General’s
Account bearing No. 7041650 at any branch of Bank of Ceylon
before the closing date of applications and the bank slip obtained
by the name of the candidate should be affixed in relevant cage in
the application. This examination fees will not be refunded for any
reason. It is useful to keep a photo copy of bank slip with the
candidate.
09. Method of apply :
9.1 The application should be prepared  in accordance with
the specimen attached to this notice. Applicant’s name
should be mentioned in English in addition to the name
in sinhala in Sinhalese  application and name  should be
mentioned in  English in addition to Tamil language in
Tamil applications.
9.2 The application should be prepared in A4 (24x29 c.m.)
sheet by using both sides.
9.3 Heading No. 1 to 6 should be on first page and the rest
of things should be on the other pages.
9.4 The applications which are not in accordance with the
specimen and uncompleted applications will be rejected.
The applicant should make sure  that the application
prepared is compatible with the specimen in the gazette
notification and if not the application will be rejected. It
is useful to keep a photo copy  of the application with
the applicant.
9.5 The application should be completed  by the language
which the applicant qualify to sit for the examination.
9.6 “Recruiting for  the post of Book-binder service Grade
III  -2013” should be mentioned  clearly on top left hand
corner of the envelop.
9.7 The duly completed application should be sent by
registered post on or before 29.11.2013 to the following
address.  applications  received  after said date  will not
be  taken over.
Registrar General
Registrar Generals Department
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa  Mawatha
Battaramulla.
9.8 The applicants  those who are in Public Service and
Local Government Service should be sent  through their
Head of the Department.
9.9 The uncompleted applications in all the way will be
rejected.
9.10 It will not be acknowledged the applications and  the
Registrar General will  be sent the admission for the
examination  by  post for all the applicants those who
have sent  duly completed, paid examination fees and
sent before due date. And also notify by a press notice.
If the admission will not be received after 2 -3 day of the
press notice, the applicant can be informed  to the
Registrar General as mentioned  in the notice. It is
effective to send a copy of your application, copy of
bank pay slip and  registered post receipt   and also  a fax
number in case of out of Colombo.
10. Entrance to Examination Center :
* The candidate should be produced  the admission  with
the certified  signature of the candidate to the In charge of
Examination hall. The applicant who  does not  produce
the admission will not be  permitted  to  sit for the
examination.
* Every candidate should sit for examination  in the hall
which allocated  for the particular hall. Every candidate
follow the general  rules  which applicable for the
candidates.
* Issuing  an admission  should not treat as the candidate
has been fulfilled the eligibility to sit for the examination.
11. Identity of the applicant. – The candidate should prove his
identity  to satisfy the  In charge of center  for every subject he sit
for. Only one  of the following   document is acceptable.
* National Identity Card issued by the Department of
registration of the persons.
* V alid passport  issued within three years  of  the
examination date.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2156
12. Furnishing false information:
* If reveled that the candidate is not having qualifications,
his or her candidature  can be cancelled before the
examination or  while the examination is being conducting
or  after examination or at any occasion. In case of revel
at any time that the information furnished by the
candidate  is false , he /she can be sacked from public
service.
* The applicant should be agreed with the  rules place by
the Registrar  General   regarding the examination. If the
candidate violate any rule he /she is liable for any
punishment place by the Registrar General.
13. If there is any discrepancy  among Sinhala, Tamil and English
versions, Sinhala version will be empowered.
14. When there is no provisions in this regulations, it will have
to follow the decisions  of Public Service Commission,
15. Method of  Examination :
* Medium:
· Can be applied either Sinhala or Tamil medium.
· Any candidate will not be   allowed to change medium
later.
* Syllabus:
Name of question Syllabus Duration
paper
Practical examination (i) Checking knowledge 02 hours
for Recruiting Book about quality of papers
Binder and documents
(ii) Checking knowledge
of prevention of
documents
(iii) Checking knowledge of
materials and equipment
use for prevention of the
documents and how to
use.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar  General.
Registrar Generals Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa  Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
08th November, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION FORM
R
EGISTRAR GENERALS DEPARTMENT
RECRUITING  FOR  THE POST OF BOOK BINDERS GRADE III  -2013
The medium expect to be  For office use only
Sat for the examination
(Sinhala 2/Tamil 3)
Write the relevant number
In the cage
01. Name:
1.1 Name with initials  using initials to end :–––––––––––.
(English Capital letters)  Eg. SILV A  A.B.
1.2 Names stand for by the initials :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
1.3. Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02.  Address:
2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.2 District of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
2.3 Mailing address of admission :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
03. Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Write  the relevant number)
04. Marital status :
Married -1
unmarried -2
(Write  the relevant number)
05. National Identity Card No:
06. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age on 29.11.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Educational  Qualifications :
G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) :
(i) Year and month of Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2157
08. Qualifications for  Book-binding :–––––––––––.
(Applicant should have qualifications as  mentioned in 6-III in
the gazette notification or  higher qualification)
09. Experience regarding book binding :–––––––––––.
(Applicant  should  have  experience  as mentioned  in 6-IV  in
the gazette notification or more experience)
10. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. Details of receipt :
* Office paid examination  fee :–––––––––––.
* Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
* Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt not to be removed.
12. Have you convicted by a court of Law ?
Mark  3  in the relevant cage
Yes N o
13. Certification of the candidate:
I do hereby certify that the  above particulars furnished by me
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.  I state that  the
receipt bearing No…………………………  attached  here which
paid the examination fees. I do hereby agree that to act in accordance
with the rules and regulations placed by Registrar General and  also
agree that  in case of  I disqualify  for the examination according to
the conditions herein  and I agree  to any decision take to cancel my
candidature  before or after the examination and  after getting the
appointment, the authority can be sacked me without any
compensation.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
For the applicants  already in public service :
Certification of  Head of the Department/ Institution
This is to certify that the  above applicant named Mr/Mrs/
Miss……………………is working in this office since
………………………… and his/her work and behaviors  always
to the satisfaction of the superiors  and I have checked the  above
information personally  with the record  in this office  and the
information  are true and correct and he/she signed  on
………………. before me.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head  of  the Department /Institution.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official Frank :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–359
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,
MINISTRY  OF  TRANSPORT
Department of Motor Traffic
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT EXAMINERS OF MOTOR
VEHICLES CLASS II SEGMENT 'B' IN SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
MOTOR TRAFFIC - 2013
OPEN Competitive Examination for recruitment Examiners of Motor
Vehicle Class II Segment 'B' in Sri Lanka Technological Service in the
Department of Motor Traffic will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on March 2014 in Colombo only. The date
of examination will be notified through newspapers in due course.
The Commissioner General of Motor Traffic reserves the right to
postpone or cancel this examination.
Interview.– The Commissioner General of Motor Traffic will
decide the date of conducting the interview regarding the candidates
who have obtained higher aggregate marks prescribed as adequate by
the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic among candidates
obtaining a minimum of 40 marks for each question paper by
appearing for all the question papers of the written examination.
(Marks will not be given at the interview).
01. Number of persons to be appointed and the effective date of
appointment will be decided by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic.
02. Structure and monthly salary scale :-
Special Class : Rs. 21,125-8x356- 18x500 - Rs. 33,045.
Class I : Rs. 21,045 -19x360 - Rs. 27,885.
Class II Segment 'A' : Rs. 17,485- 18x320 - Rs. 23,245.
Class II Segment 'B' : Rs. 15,005 -4x180 -18x240- Rs. 19,085.
(All appointees should pass 1st efficiency Bar Examinations
before reaching the salary steps Rs. 15,365. They should pass 1st
Department examination prior to the completion of a period of 05
year service in Class II'B' for the promotion to the Class II'A')
Recruitment through this examination will be made to Motor
Vehicle Examiners in Sri Lanka Technological Service Class II Segment
''B'.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2158
03. This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions will
have be made to the 'Widows and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
04. Eligibility - Every candidate :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should possess an excellent character,
(c) Should not be less than 18 year of age more than 35 years
on the closing date of applications. (The upper age limit
will not be apply to those already in the public service less
than 45 years).
05. Candidates should have following qualifications :
(i) National Diploma in Technology, Mechanical Engineering,
Automobile awarded by the University of Moratuwa or
Ampara Hardy Technical College ; or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering Science, Mechanical
Engineering, Automobile awarded by the National
Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Authority ; or
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering, Automobile awarded by the Ministry of
Higher Education ; or
(iv) Diploma in Technology, Mechanical Engineering,
Automobile awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka ;
or
(v) Diploma in Engineering - Part I Mechanical Engineering,
Automobile conducted by the Institute of Engineering in
Sri Lanka ; or
(vi) Any other qualification certified as recognized by the Sri
Lanka Technical Services Board to be equal to above
mentioned technical qualifications.
06. Professional knowledge and experience :
(i) Every applicant subsequent to, obtaining the above
mentioned qualifications, should process at least 2 years
experience at supervisory level in the government or State
Corporation/Statutory Boards or in a recognized motor
garage which has been registered under the company act and
which pays employees Provident Fund and Employee Trust
Fund at least in respect of 10 employees ; and
(ii) Every applicant should have valid driving license to drive
all kinds of motor coaches and motor bicycle.
07. It is compulsory that all necessary qualification should be
completed prior to the closing date of applications for this
examination.
08. Appointees should undergo a medical examination conducted
by a Government Medical Officer to check whether they are
physically fit to serve in any part of the island.
09. All appointees should acquire proficiency in other official
language within 5 years from the recruitment in addition to the official
language they entered the public service.
10. Scheme of Examination.– This examination consists of two
question papers. Particulars relating to this examination are as follows :
(i) General Knowledge of Motor Mechanism - duration 2
hours - 100 marks (this question paper consists of
multiple choice questions and structured questions
applciants should answer all questions.)
Application should have basic knowledge on following
Technical fields and defects related to such fields.
1. Performances of diesel and petrol engine and
velocity rebate.
2. Clutch and transmission system.
3. Lubrication system and cooling system.
4. Electricity system.
5. Fuel systems in petrol and diesel vehicles.
6. Footbrake system, equipment for testing efficiency
of brakes, period of reaction, stopping distance.
7. Handbrake system.
8. Equipment for examination of wheel alignment and
steering geometry.
9. Suspension system.
10. Preparation of quality report of motor vehicle.
11. Issue of fitness certificates for a motor vehicle.
12. General knowledge on a role of Department and
duties related to an Examiner of Motor Traffic.
13. General knowledge of painting, welding and fitting.
14. Automatic transmission.
(ii) Intelligence test - Duration - One hour - 100 marks
(This question paper consists of short answer model to
measure the candidates intelligence including fields of
linguistic and numerical skills, nationality) (Candidates
should answer all questions).
Note.– This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English language. Candidates should sit the examination
in the same medium of language that is lie. Sinhala,
Tamil and English in which the candidate sat the
examination to obtain the qualifications mentioned in
paragraphs 05(I-VI) of this advertisement.
However a candidates who has passed the qualifying
examination in Tamil or English medium or candidate
who has obtained his education in Tamil or English
medium can sit this examiantion in Sinhala medium it
he wishes to do so. The medium applied cannot be
changed later.
(iii) Among the candidates applying for sitting the
examination, only the candidates who have fulfilled the

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2159
basic qualifications will be selected by the Commissioner
General of Motor Traffic and admission cards will be
sent only to such applicant by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. Applications of candidates who have
not fulfilled the basic qualification will be rejected.
11. Method of Application :
(i) Specimen form has been published at the end of this Gazette
Notification. Candidates should prepare the respective
application form in the language they wish to sit the
examination. The relevant information should be completed
legibly in their hand writing. The name of the examination
indicated on the head should be mentioned in English
language in addition to Sinhala language in application filled
in Sinhala and it should be mentioned in English language
in addition to Tamil language in applications filled in Tamil
every statement in the application should be complete by
the candidate as per the instructions given. If there is any
statement in applicable to the candidate, ought to be
indicated as "not applicable". It should be strictly kept in
mind that applications with vacant columns may be
rejected. Application which are not in conformity with the
specimen form and applications with incomplete
information will be rejected without any notification. It
will be helpful for candidates to keep a photocopy of the
application. Further, the candidate should check whether
the completed application is in conformity with the
specimen form indicated in the notification of examinations
which do not fulfill such requirement will be rejected.
(Applications should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form using both of A4 papers. Heads from 1.0
up to 1.11, heads from 02 up to 03 and heads from 04 up
to 07 should be in 1st, 2nd and 3rd pages respectively.)
(ii) Applications should be sent by registered post to the
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic, Department of
Motor Traffic, No. 341, Elvitigala Mawatha, Narahenpita,
Colombo 05 on or before 10th of December 2013.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
The name of the examination should be mentioned clearly
at the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
(iii) The receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 as the
examination fees to District/Divisional Secretariat to be
credited to Revenue Head 15th November, 2013 of the
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic should be firmly
affixed at the relevant place in the application. A
photocopy of the receipt obtained by paying money
should be kept in the possession of candidate. Such
examination fees will not be refunded for any reasons what
so ever and cannot be transferred to any other examination.
(iv) Candidates who are already serving in Government
Department/State Corporations/Statutory Boards should
forward their applications through the head of the
respective Department of Institution. Candidates are
notified to submit their applications earlier to their Heads
of Department with a request made to them that the
applications should have to be sent to the Commissioner
General of Motor Traffic on or before 10th of December
2013 application should not be addressed personally to
the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic or other officer
in the department. Even application forwarded through
respective department will be rejected if they have been
sent after the closing date. Application will be rejected if
they are forwarded without the signature and official frank
of the head of department/institutions which is required
for attesting the signature of the candidate already serving
in the public service.
(v) Attestation.– The signature of a candidate already in the
public service should be attested by the Head of the
respective Department or by an officer authorized to do
so on his behalf. Signatures of the other candidates should
be attested by to do so any one of the following should
attest their signatures : i. e. a Justice of Peace, a
Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney at Law, a Notary
Public, a Principal of a Government School, a
Commissioned Officer in the Navy, Air Force or Army, a
Permanent Public Officer drawing a monthly consolidated
salary of salary Rs. 22,935 or over that amount per month
as per the Public Administration Circular 6/2006, a chief
incumbent or a Higher Priest of a buddhist temple or a
clergy of any other religion in charge of a place of worship
or priest holding a position of importance in such places
of worship.
12. Admission to the Examination .– Among the applications
received by the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic, applications
which have been fulfilled the basic qualification will be selected by
him and such applications will be forwarded by him and such
applications will be forwarded to the Commissioner of Examinations.
Admission cards will be sent by the Commissioner of
Examinations to the respective candidates. Candidates who wish to
sit the examination must produce the attested admission cards to the
supervisor of the Examination Center a candidate who fails to produce
his admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
Candidates must sit the examination at the examination hall
assigned to them any candidate who calls at any other examination
hall instead of the examination hall assigned to him will nto be
permitted to sit the examination. Every candidate sitting the
examination should submit sit admission card to the Supervisor on
the day he presents himself at the examination.
Does not receive the admission card for 2 or 3 days after the
notice of the examination indicating dates conducting the examination
have been published in the paper, the respective candidate should
nastily it to the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as per the
instructions given in the notice. It will be more effective to inform
the Department of Examinations by having the photocopies of true
application and the payment and the receipt obtained when registering
the letter with you in case true candidate is residing out of Colombo"
the request letter with a fax number for sending the admission card
should be kept with the candidate. All candidates are bound to abide

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2160
by the rules laid down by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for conducting examinations any candidate who violates any of such
rules will liable to a punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The issue of an admission card to a candidate
does not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.
13. Identity Cards.– A candidate should be required to prove his
identity for each subject he appears at the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the supervisor any on of the following documents
will be accepted in this respect :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport issued within a period not exceeding 3
years as at the date of the examination.
The candidature of any candidate who fails to submit any of the
above doucments is liable to be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
14. Documents on qualifications :
(i) Cash receipt and certified copies of all the certificates
required to substantiate the qualifications should be
attached to the application. Likewise, all the necessary
particulars to be incomplete, such application will
rejected.
(ii) Applications qualification for the interview should
substantiate their eligibility by producing originals of
the relevant document.
(iii) Original of the following document should be produced.
(a) Character certificate issued by an authorized person
such certificate can be obtained from a justice of
peace, an Attorney-at-Law the Divisional Secretary
of residence division or a permanent public officer
draw in initial monthly salary step of Rs. 22,935 or
above in the salary scale 6/2006 of Public
Administration Circular or a Chief incumbent or
Higher priest of a Buddhist Temple, a member of
the clergy of any other religion or in charge of a
place of worship or holding a position of importance
in such places. There should be clearly mentioned
the designation name and address of the person who
issued the certificate.
Application who hold a permanent post in the public
service do not need to produce a character certificate.
(b) A certified copy of birth registration entry or the
candidate (in care of the application who have not
been registered the births) or a special certificate on
age issued by the Registrar General.
Note.– Special Birth Certificates or certified extracts
quoted from the birth registration entry issued for
the use of school or educational purposes will not
be accepted.
Affidavits or certificates of baptized instead of the
certificate of Births will not be accepted. If there is
any difference between the name/names indicated
in the certificates of birth and the name/names of
the candidates which he uses or appears at the
examination he should take prompt action to alter
his name/names indicated in the certificates of birth
in terms of the Section 27 or 28 of the Birth and
Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110) as suitable.
(iv) A certificate of registrations as a citizen of Sri Lanka or
a letter indicated that the government has accepted that
you have a citizenship by descent.
(v) Certification of qualification (educational, professional)
as per this notification.
(vi) Certificates related to the practical experience issued by
the motor garage where you have obtained the work
experience.
(vii) Valid driving licence for all motor coaches and motor
bicycles.
(viii) Applications are requested to ready all the required
documents on the occasion of producing applications.
If any candidate, who fails to produce or delay to produce
the required documents when they are requested to do
will be disqualified to appoint to the post.
15. Furnishing false information. – In accordance with the
regulation of this examination if any candidate in found to be ineligible
to sit for the examination this candidature is liable to cancelled at any
stage prior to during of after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by the candidate in found to be false within his knowledge
or if he has purposely concealed an important fact or if it is proved
that he is ineligible to sit for this examination during any time of this
service period, he will be liable to dismiss from service. The
candidature of the application who have not furnished duely the
requirements stipulated in this notification will be cancelled.
16. If any other relevant fact which has not been described by
their regulations will he decided at the discretion of the Commissioner
General of Motor Traffic.
S. H. H
ARISHCHANDRA,
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
Department of Motor Traffic,
Elvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05,
21st October, 2013.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2161
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
MOTOR VEHICLE EXAMINERS OF CLASS II SEGMENT B OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR TRAFFIC - 2013
For office use only
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Personal details :
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
(In capital letters) Eg.– SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Names denoted by initials (In capital letter) :––––––––––.
1.3 Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
1.4 Permanent address (to be receive the admission) (In capital
letters) :–––––––––––.
1.5 Official address (In capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
1.6 Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Please write in the relevant box)
1.7 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Please write in the relevant box)
1.8 National Identity Card No. :
1.9 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
1.10 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
1.11 Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka (cut down
inappropriate words) :
(a) Yes/No :–––––––––––.
(b) By descent/registration :–––––––––––.
02. Educational qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L) N. G . C. E. :
Year in which the examination was passed :–––––––––––.
Examination Number :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grades
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) :
Year in which the examination was passed :–––––––––––.
Examination Number :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grades
(iii) Particulars of degrees or other advanced educational
qualification if any :
Name of the Degree Subject Year University
03. Professional qualifications :
Name of the Institute Duration of the Year
Course course (years)
(a) Name and address of the motor garage where the training
was obtained :–––––––––––.
(b) Registration No. of that garage :–––––––––––.
(c) Period of training :
From ..................... to ............... Years ....................
(iv) ( a) Driving licence No. and class of vehicle :–––––––––.
(b) Date of issue :–––––––––––.
04. If the applicant is employed in Government Department/
Corporation :
Name of the Department/Corporation :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Date of appointment :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
05. Have you been convicted of any allegation in a Court of Law ?
Yes/No
If the answer is yes give details :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2162
06. Examination fee :
The receipt learning No. .......................... dated issued by the
Government Agent/Divisional Secretary for payment of examination
fee a sum of Rs. 1,000 has been attached in the following page.
07. Statement of the application :
I, do hereby certify that the particulars given in this application
are true and correct. I am aware of the fact that my application in
liable to be rejected if any false or inaccurate information given above
is detected prior to selection or my appointment is liable to be
cancelled if it is detected after I am selected further I agree with the
rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conditions of the examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(If the applicant is employed in a Government Department,
Corporation or Local Authorities/Provincial Council he should
forward his application through Head of the Department or
Corporation or Chief Secretary)
Recommendation of Head or the Department or Corporation
I, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. in employed in
this Department/Corporation/Local Authorities/Provincial Council
and his/her work and conduct is satisfactory and he is eligible to
apply to this post as per the Gazette notification and if he/she is
selected to this post he/she cannot be released.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department/Corporation.
(Official frank)
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–206
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EXTERNAL  AFFAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for Filling of Vacancies
in the Home Based Personal Assistant's Posts in Sri
Lanka Missions Abroad – 2013(2014)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for selection of Home Based
Personal Assistants who are competent in English Stenography and
Computer Applications, for appointment to Sri Lanka Missions
Abroad, from Public Management Assistant's Service, Provincial
Public Service and Local Government Service and Semi Government
Organizations such as Corporations/State Banks and other Statutory
Bodies.
02. Eligibility :–
(a) Should be a Sri Lanka citizen and if the applicant is married
spouse should also be a Sri Lanka citizen ;
(b) Permanent Officers from the Public Management
Assistant's Service, Provincial Public Service and the Local
Government Service who are not more than 56 years of
age on the closing date of applications and have completed
a minimum of 05 years service in English Stenography and
Computer Applications ;
(c) Permanent Officers in Semi-Government Organizations
such as Corporations, State Banks and other Statutory
Bodies who are not more than 55 years of age on the
closing date of applications and having a minimum of 05
years of experience in English Stenography and Computer
Applications.
Note.–(i) Those who are currently serving in Sri Lanka Missions
abroad are not eligible to apply.
(ii) Those who have served in Sri Lanka Missions earlier
and returned to Sri Lanka may sit the exam. However,
appointment will be given on priority basis to those
who have spent at least 12 months after returning to
Sri Lanka on completion of their last posting.
(iii) Those who are serving on contract basis, casual basis
or temporary basis in the Services mentioned under
02(b) and (c) are not eligible to apply.
03. Method of Selection :–
3.1 Applicants will be required to sit for a test in English
Stenography. The test will be held in Colombo in the
English medium only. The speed in Stenography required
for the test will be 60 w. p. m. 100 marks will be allocated
for this English Stenography test. Those who have secured
40% or more at this test will be called upon to an interview.
However, in case if there is an insufficient number of
qualified applicants with the above mark levels at the
written examination, Secretary to the Ministry of External
Affairs will reserve the right to call candidates with lesser
marks for the interview.
3.2 Persons selected on merit from the written examination
will be called for an interview. During the interview, the
eligibility of candidates and their supportive documents
will be verified. The interview will be conducted by a
board appointed by the Secretary, Ministry of External
Affairs. The placement will be finalized at the discretion
of the Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs.
3.3 The decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
will be final with regard to conducting the examination and
issuing results.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2163
3.4 The result sheet prepared on the basis of merit order of the
applicants who obtained marks not less than 40% in the
written examination will be sent to the Ministry of External
Affairs by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
In addition to that, examination results will be personally
conveyed to all the applicants who appeared for the
examination.
04. Terms of Engagement :–
4.1 ( a) An officer selected will be required to serve initially
in Colombo at the Ministry of External Affairs for a
specified period prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad. If his/her work and conduct during
this initial period of service at the Ministry of External
Affairs are found to be unsatisfactory, his/her selection
is liable to be cancelled. The period of service in the
Ministry can be changed according to the
requirements of the Ministry.
(b) Posting will be decided on the basis of requirements
of respective Missions and the officer's suitability
and competence (in foreign language etc.). In deciding
on such postings, there is no obligation, on the part
of the Ministry to consider the officer's personal
needs and grievances (children's education etc.).
Further, the Ministry is not bound to fill the vacancies
purely in accordance with the order of merit of the
selection tests.
4.2 ( a) An officer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad is normally required to serve abroad
for a period of three years in terms and conditions as
stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of External
Affairs and to enter into an agreement to the effect.
4.3 Officers in Government Service (Public Management
Assistants' Service/Provincial Public Service/Local
Government Service) if selected, will continue to be paid
on the present salary scales. Others will be paid a fixed
salary of Rs. 15,610 per month. In addition, they will be
paid an Overseas Allowance that is applicable, in
accordance with existing rules and regulations while they
are serving in Sri Lanka Missions abroad.
4.4 When a selected officer is posted to a Sri Lanka Mission
abroad, the Government will meet the cost of air passage
to the country of posting and back, accommodation there
and other allowances as detemined by the Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs during his/her service abroad,
only in respect of the officer, his/her spouse and two
"eligible children". (For the purpose of this clause "eligible
children" mean unmarried children under 21 years of
age.).
05. Method of Application :–
5.1 Printed application forms will not be issued. Application
forms should be prepared in an A4 size paper as per the
specimen appended to this notification, containing items
from 01-09 on the first page, 10-19 on the second page
and the rest on the third page and should be filled in
applicant's own hand writing.
When the application forms are prepared in Sinhala or
Tamil languages, the name of the examination should be
mentioned in the English language as well, in addition to
the names in Sinhala or Tamil.
Note.– Applicants from Public Service/Provincial Public
Service/Local Government Service should be use
specimen form No. 1 and the other services please
use the specimen form No. 2.
Application which are not in conformity with the
specimen and those are not providing the required details
will be rejected without any notice. Applicants are advised
to keep a photocopy of the application.
Applications shold be forwarded through the
respective Heads of Departments. Every application
should carry an endorsement from the Head of
Department as to the suitability of the applicant for
service overseas, that the applicant, if selected, can be
released from his/her present post immediately and that
the particulars given in the application are correct.
5.2 The application should be forwarded by registered post
to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla,
on or before 09.12.2013 and should be marked
"Examination for Selection of Home Based Personal
Assistants to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad"
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. English letter
"P" should be clearly indicated within a cage (2cm x 2cm)
on the top of the left side of the envelope. No application
received after the closing date will be accepted.
This examination will be conducted during the month of
March, 2014 in Colombo.
06. Examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 400. The  receipt
obtained for payment of the fee and in applicant's name at District or
Divisional Secretariat in the island to the credit of Revenue Head
2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should be
firmly affirmed to the application by its margin at the place provided
in the application. Details of the receipt such as member, the office
money is paid to, date and the amount paid, should be indicated in
the relevant space. Money Orders or stamps will not be accepted for
payment of examination fees. Under no circumstances, will the
examination fees be refunded. Applicants are advised to keep a
photocopy of the payment receipt.
07. Applications, which are not completed in every respect are
liable to be rejected. No complaints that an application has been lost
or delayed in the post will be considered.
08. Applications will not be acknowledged. Eligible applicants
whose applications have been accepted will be summoned for the
written examination, which will be conducted by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations. As soon as the Admission Cards are issued,
a notification to that effect will be published in the newspapers by
the Department of Examinations. As instructed in the notification,

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2164
the Department of Examinations should be informed in case the
admission cards of any candidate is not received within 2 or 3 days
after the appearance of the paper notification. Such applicants should
inform the Department of Examinations about the non receipt of the
admission card with certified photocopies of the application form,
the receipt issued on payment of examination fees and the receipt
issued on sending the application by registered post. (In case of an
appeal from out station, a fax number should be indicated in order to
send the admission card).
According to the instructions given in the Admission Card, you
should get your signature attested. On the first day of the examination
itself. Admission Card with the signature attested should be submitted
to your Supervisor of the Examination Hall.
09. Either a National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or valid passport will only be accepted to
prove identity of a candidate to a supervisor at examinations
conducted by the Sri Lanka Examination Department.
10. Issuance of admission card to a candidate shall not be in any
way treated as that candidate had satisfied all the qualifications for
the examination.
11. The designation and the work place of the applicant at the
time of the application is made shall be relevant to all matters with
regard to the examination and any request for change thereto after
forwarding the application will not be considered.
12. Candidates will be subject to rules and regulations related to
examination procedures imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Further, a candidate who violates such rules shall be
subjected to any penalty imposed on him/her by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
K
ARUNA THILAKE AMUNUGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
P. O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
24th October, 2013.
SPECIMEN FORM No. 01
A
PPLICATION FOR POST OF HOME BASED PERSONAL ASSISTANTS IN SRI
LANKA MISSIONS ABROAD – 2013(2014)
(Only for Applicants from Public/Provincial Public/Local
Government Services)
PART A
(For office use only)
01. (i) Full name of Applicant (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms. :
–––––––––––––.
(ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms.
(Eg.- SILV A A. B.) :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
(iii) Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
03. (i) Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
(ii) N. I. C. No. :
(iii) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iv) Age as at closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Civil Status : Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
05. If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality :–––––––––.
06.Number of children, their names, dates of birth and their ages :
––––––––––––.
07. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (If a State
Officer, give full particulars) :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications (including medium) :––––––––––––.
09. Date of First Appointment under Public/Provincial Public/Local
Government Sector :––––––––––––.
10. Date of confirmation :––––––––––––.
11. Present Grade and Date of Entry to it :––––––––––––.
12. Present Annual Salary :––––––––––––.
13. Nature of Present Duties :––––––––––––.
14. Speed in :
(a) English Stenography :––––––––––––.
(b) English Typing :––––––––––––.
15. Proficiency in :
(a) English Language :––––––––––––.
(b) Sinhala/Tamil Language :––––––––––––.
(c) Computer Literacy :––––––––––––.
(d) Other Foreign Languages :––––––––––––.
16. Sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period :––––––––––––.
17. Any other qualifications :––––––––––––.
18. Remarks :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2165
Paste the receipt obtained from the District or Divisional Secretariat
for the payment of correct amount of examination fees, in the below
cage.
(i) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) District or Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) Am ount :––––––––––––.
19. Certificate by Applicant :-
I declare that during the five years preceding  09.12.2013 I have
earned all increments and that I have not been subjected to any form
of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) and that to the best
of my knowledge and belief the information given in this form is
correct and accurate.
I further declare that I will be subject to rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination in relation to
examintion procedures.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
PART B
Certificate of the Head of Department
(To be filled in by the Head of the Department)
I have ascertained that during the five years preceding 09.12.2013
Mr./Mrs./Miss...................... has
(a) Earned all his/her increments,
(b) Not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment
(excluding warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct. I
hereby certify that the examination fees have been paid and the
receipt is attached herewith. The officer placed his/her signature in
my presence and I certify his/her signature.
This officer, if selected, could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
(With the official Frank)
Name :––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––.
SPECIMEN FORM No. 02
A
PPLICATION FOR POST OF HOME BASED PERSONAL ASSISTANTS IN
SRI LANKA MISSIONS ABROAD – 2013(2014)
(For Applicants from Semi-Government Organizations)
PART A
(For office use only)
01. (i) Full name of Applicant (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms :
–––––––––––––.
(ii) Last name with initials (in block letters) : Mr./Mrs./Ms.
(Eg.- SILV A A. B.) :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
(Admission card will be posted to this address)
(iii) Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
03. (i) Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
(ii) N. I. C. No. :
(iii) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(iv) Age as at closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
04. Civil Status : Married - 2
Unmarried - 1
(Give the relevant No. in the box)
05. If married, name of spouse and his/her nationality :–––––––––.
06.Number of children, their names, dates of birth and their ages :
––––––––––––.
07. If spouse is employed, particulars of employment (If a State
Officer, give full particulars) :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications (including medium) :––––––––––––.
09. Name of the Institution and the period where the applicant has
served during the five years preceding the closing date (Please
annex service certificate) :
Name of Institution Designation Period
From               To

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2166
10. Date of confirmation :––––––––––––.
11. Present Grade and Date of Entry to it :––––––––––––.
12. Present Annual Salary :––––––––––––.
13. Nature of Present Duties :––––––––––––.
14. Speed in :
(c) English Stenography :––––––––––––.
(d) English Typing :––––––––––––.
15. Proficiency in :
(e) English Language :––––––––––––.
(f) Sinhala/Tamil Language :––––––––––––.
(g) Computer Literacy :––––––––––––.
(h) Other Foreign Languages :––––––––––––.
16. Sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant had served
earlier and the period :––––––––––––.
17. Any other qualifications :––––––––––––.
18. Remarks :––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt obtained from the District or Divisional Secretariat
for the payment of correct amount of examination fees, in the below
cage.
(i) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) District or Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) Amount :––––––––––––.
19. Certificate by Applicant :-
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is
true and correct. I am aware that, should any of the information given
by me above are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable for
disqualification before selection and to dismissal without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
I further declare that I shall be abide by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard
to conducting this examination and decisions taken by him with
regard to issuing results.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
PART B
Certificate of the Head of Institution
(To be filled in by the Head of the Institution)
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ is
serving in this Institution from .................. his/her work and conduct
are satisfactory, the details furnished above are correct according to
the records available in this office and placed his/her signature before
me on ...................... 2013. I further certify that the prescribed
examination fee has been paid and the receipt obtained by paying the
above fee has been affixed.
This officer, if selected, could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Institution.
(With the Official Frank)
Name of the Attester :––––––––––.
Designation  :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date  :––––––––––.
11–362
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF   EXTERNAL   AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for Filling Vacancies in the
Public Management Assistants’ Service Cadre in Sri
Lanka Missions Abroad – 2013(2014)
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited to sit for the competitive
examination conducted by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations, on behalf of the Ministry of External Affairs to fill
vacancies in the home-based Public Management Assistants’ Cadre
in Sri Lanka Missions abroad, from eligible officers of the Public
Management Assistants’ Service, Provincial Public Management
Assistants’ Service and Local Government Public Management
Assistants’ Service, to be held in Colombo in March 2014.
2. Eligibility.– Applicants should meet the following eligibility
criteria:
(a) Should be an officer of the Class I of the, Public
Management Assistants’ Service/ Provincial Public
Management Assistants’ Service/ Local Government
Management Assistants’ Service or an officer who has
been completed 05 years satisfactory service in the Class
II of the Public Management Assistants’ Service/
Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service/ Local
Government Management Assistants’ Service, on the date
of application.
(b) The post and the workplace of the applicant at the time
of applying for the examination, will be applicable with
regard to all aspects of the examination. After submitting
the application, any changes thereto shall not be
considered.
Note : Officers in other Management Assistant
Services, not belonging to the above mentioned
services, are not eligible to apply.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2167
(c) Age should be less than 56 years on the closing date of
applications.
(d) Should be completed the First Efficiency Bar Examination
of the Class II of the services mentioned under above (a)
on the date of application.
(e) Should have earned on the due date, all the annual
increments, falling within the five years immediately
preceding the date of application.
(f) Should have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment, other than warning.
Note.–(i) Those who are presently serving in Sri Lanka
Missions abroad are not eligible to apply for this
examination.
(ii) If an applicant who is eligible at the time of
forwarding his/her application, is   subsequently
promoted to a Class/Grade higher than Class I of
the Public Management Assistants’ Service/
Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service/
Local Government Public Management Assistants’
Service or appointed to a post in any other service,
will cease to be eligible to fill a vacancy in the Home-
Based Public Management Assistants’ cadre at Sri
Lanka Missions abroad. It is the responsibility of
such applicant to promptly inform the Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs in the event of any
change in his/her official status that might have an
impact on his/her eligibility under the clause (a) of
this paragraph.
 (iii) Preference will be given to officers with experience
in accounts and establishment work and have a good
working knowledge of English / other foreign
languages (written and spoken). Working knowledge
in other foreign languages will be considered as an
added qualification.
(iv) Computer skills will be an added qualification and
the extent of such skills must be stated in the
application.
3. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the basis of
the written examination to be conducted by the Commissioner-
General of Examinations and  the interview to be conducted by the
Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs, which will be held in
Colombo. The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations will be final with regard to conducting of examination
and issuing the results.
3.1. Written Examination .– The written examination will
consist of the following papers each of which will carry
100 marks.
Subject Paper   Duration
No
01 Financial Systems 2 hours
02 Establishment Code & Office Procedure 2 hours
03 English 2 hours
04 General Knowledge 1 hour
Note.–  01. Accounting .– This question paper which will
consist of objective and subject type questions  is
set to  test the candidate’s practical knowledge of
financial operations and accounting procedures of
a Government Institution. All questions should be
answered.
02. Establishment and Office Procedure .– The
questions in this objective and structured type of
paper are set to test the candidate’s practical
knowledge of establishment and office procedures
of a Government Institution. All questions should
be answered.
03. English.– This question paper is designed to test
the candidate’s knowledge in comprehension and
written communication. All questions should be
answered.
04. General Knowledge. -This paper will consist of
MCQs and short answer type questions on
political, social, cultural and economic environment,
history and geography of Sri Lanka as well as
current international affairs. The candidates should
answer all questions.
3.2. Interview :
3.2.1. The interview will carry 100 marks and will be
conducted by a Board appointed by the Secretary,
Ministry of External Affairs.
3.2.2. Those candidates who have obtained 40% marks or
above in each paper and a total aggregate of 200 or
above at the written examination will be eligible to be
called for the interview.
3.2.3. The list of applicants prepared in the alphabetical
order who have been qualified for the interview as per
para 3.2.2. will be sent to the Secretary, Ministry of
External Affairs by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
After receiving interview marks, the result sheet
prepared on the basis of merit order of total aggregate
marks obtained by the applicants at the written
examination and the interview, will be sent to the
Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs.
In addition to that, examination results will be
personally conveyed to all the applicants who
appeared for the Examination.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2168
4.  Terms of Engagement :
4.1 Candidates after being selected to fill the vacancies will
be required to serve initially at the Ministry of External
Affairs in Colombo for a specified period of one year,
prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission abroad.  If
the work and conduct of a candidate during this initial
period of service at the Ministry are found to be
unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to be cancelled.
4.2 Posting will be decided on the basis of requirements of
respective Missions and the officer’s suitability and
competence (in foreign language etc.).  In deciding such
posting, there is no obligation on the part of the Ministry
to consider the officer’s personal needs and grievances
(children education etc.) and officer should report for
the duty whatever the Mission abroad he/she posted
to.
4.3.  An of ficer selected on being posted to a Sri Lanka
Mission abroad, is normally required to serve abroad
for a period of three years on terms and conditions as
stipulated by the Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs
and to enter into an agreement to that effect. On
completion of the term, the officer will have to return to
the Island.
4.4. The selected officers while serving at a Sri Lanka Mission
will continue to  receive their substantive salaries paid
in Colombo.  In addition, the officer  will  be paid an
overseas allowance during their period of service abroad.
4.5. Once an officer is selected, cost of air passage from Sri
Lanka to the country of posting and back,
accommodation and other facilities during his/her service
abroad, in respect of the selected officer,   his/her spouse
and for a maximum of two children who are under 21
years of age and dependent on the officer only, will be
met by the Government as determined by the Secretary/
External Affairs.
5. Method of application :
5.1 The application forms prepared in an A4 size paper as
per the specimen appended to this notification,
containing items from 01-05 on the first page, 06-14 on
the second page and the rest on the third page.
Applications which are not in conformity with the
specimen and those not providing the required details
will be rejected without any notice. Applicants are
advised to keep photo copies of applications.
5.2 In Sinhala and Tamil applications, the name of the
examination should  indicate in English, in addition to
Sinhalese or Tamil.
5.3 Applications should be forwarded through the respective
Heads of Department with the recommendation and
endorsement from Head of Department on the eligibility
of the applicant for service overseas and the correctness
of details given in the application. The Head of
Department should also state whether the applicant if
selected, can be released immediately from the present
post.
5.4 Applications should be forwarded by registered post
to reach the "Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organization & Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatte, Battaramulla"
on or before 02.12.2013  and should be marked
"Examination for Selection of Management Assistants
to fill vacancies in Sri Lanka Missions Abroad" on the
top left hand corner of the envelope.
6. Examination Fees. – Examination fee of Rs. 400 should be
paid at any District/Divisional Secretariat to the credit of Revenue
Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations,
and the receipt obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of the
application. Details of the receipt such as number, the office money
is paid to, date and the amount paid, should be indicated in the
relevant space.  Receipt obtained by paying examination fees
through any other mode of postal/money orders or stamps will not
be accepted.  It will be appropriate to keep a photocopy of the
receipt. Under no circumstances the examination fees will be
refunded.
7. Incomplete applications will be rejected.  No allegation that
an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
No applications received after the closing date will  be accepted.
8. Admission to sit for the Examination :
8.1 Applications will not be acknowledged.
8.2 The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issued
Admission Cards to all those applicants whose
applications were accepted. As soon as the admission
cards are issued a notification to that effect will be
published in the news papers by the Department of
Examinations. As instructed in the notification, the
Department of Examinations should be informed in case
the admission cards of any candidate is not received
within 2 or 3 days after the appearance of the paper
notification. Such applicants should inquire from the
Department of Examinations about the non receipt of
the admission card, mentioning the applicant’s name in
full, address, NIC No. and the name of the examination
applied along with photo copies of the application form,
the receipt issued on payment of examination fees and
the receipt issued when sending the application by
registered post. In case of an appeal submitted from
outer Colombo, sending a fax number along with above
details by fax is appropriate to send the admission card.
8.3 A candidate presenting hisself/herself for the examination
must produce his/her admission card with attestation
of signature to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre.
A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card
as mentioned above will not be permitted to sit for the
Examination.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2169
8.4 A candidate must sit for the Examination at the
Examination hall assigned to  him/her. All candidates
should surrender their admission cards on the first day
of the examination to the supervisor.  A set of rules to
be observed by all candidates is published in the Gazette.
The candidates are subjected to all rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
If such rules or regulations are violated, the candidate
should have to face penalty imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations will be the final with regard to conducting
the examination and issuing results.
8.5 Issuance of admission card to a candidate shall not be in
any way treated as that candidate had satisfied all the
qualifications for the examination.
9. Medium of Examination :
9.1 The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English medium. Candidates will not be allowed to
change the medium applied, subsequently.
9.2 A candidate is required to answer all question papers in
one language only, except the English Language paper.
10. Penalty for Furnishing False Information :
10.1 If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate are
found to be false within  his/her knowledge, or if he/she
willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be
liable for dismissal from the Public Service, and
therefore, he/she will be ineligible  to sit for the
examination.
10.2 If a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit for this
examination at any stage prior to, during or after the
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be rejected.
11.Identity of Candidate.– A candidate will be required to prove
his/her Identity at the Examination Hall to  the satisfaction of the
Supervisor for each subject he/she offers.  For this purpose any of
the following documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) Valid Passport.
12. Decision of the Secretary of External Affairs will be the final
in this regard.
K
ARUNATHILAKE AMUNUGAMA,
Secretary/External Affairs.
Ministry of External Affairs,
P.O. Box 583, Republic Building,
Colombo 01,
25th October, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR FILLING
VACANCIES IN THE PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’ SERVICE CADRE
IN SRI LANKA MISSIONS ABROAD – 2013(2014)
PART A
For Office use
The Service you belong to:
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
Public Management Assistants’ Service   -  1
Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service   -    2
Local Government Public Management Assistants’ Service   -  3
Medium in which the applicant wishes to sit for the examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
1.0 Name :
1.1 Last Name with initials : Mr/Mrs/Ms :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)  Eg:  SILV A  M.A.
1.2 Name in full (In English block letters) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
2.0 Address:
2.1 Which Admission cards should be sent to: (In English
block letters) :–––––––––––.
2.2 Permanent Address (In Sinhala/Tamil)  :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
2.3 Official Address (In English block letters) :–––––––––.
Telephone No.  :–––––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female  - 1
Male  - 0
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
3.2 National Identity Card No:
3.3 Date of Birth :
Year :    Month :  Date  :
3.4 Age as at the closing date of application:
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 4.1 Service : Public Management Assistants Service/
Provincial Public Management  Assistants Service /Local
Government Public Management Assistants Service
(Delete whichever is inapplicable)

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
2170
4.2 Date of first appointment to the Public Service/ Provincial
Service/Local  Government Service and Language medium.
(Delete whichever is inapplicable) :––––––––––.
5.0 5.1 Civil Status:
Married – 2
Single – 1
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
5.2 If married, number of children :––––––––––.
Their dates of birth and ages :––––––––––.
6.0 If the spouse is employed, give details :––––––––––.
7.0 Educational Qualifications (with language medium) :––––––.
8.0 Date of Promotion to :
8.1 Class II :––––––––––.
Date of completion of the First Efficiency Bar
Examination of Class II :––––––––––.
8.2 Class I  :––––––––––.
8.3 The Class which the applicant is currently attached to
and the date of appointment for the same :–––––––––.
9.0 Present Annual Salary :––––––––––.
10.0  Experience (Give the number of years)
10.1 Accounts :––––––––––.
10.2 Establishment Procedures :––––––––––.
11.0 Proficiency :
Reading W riting Spoken
(a) Sinhala Language
 (b) Tamil Language
(c) English Language
(d) Any other Foreign
Language
12.0 Ability :
12.1 Typing (Sinhala/Tamil/English) :––––––––––.
12.2 Computer Literacy (Give details) :––––––––––.
13.0 If the applicant has previously served at any Sri Lanka
Mission Abroad, give the names of the Mission with dates :
––––––––––.
14.0 Any other qualifications :––––––––––.
The receipt issued by the District/Divisional Secretariat on
payment of examination fees  should be affixed in the below cage
(retain a photocopy of the receipt)
1. Receipt No. :––––––––––.
2. District/Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
3. Date :––––––––––.
4. Amount :––––––––––.
15.0. Applicant’s Certificate:
I do hereby declare that I have earned all increments falling due
in the 5 years immediately preceding 02.12.2013 and have not been
subjected to any disciplinary punishment, except warning.  I also
declare that to the best of my knowledge the information furnished
in this application is true and accurate.  I also be aware that if any
information is found to be incorrect or false, before, during or after
the examination, the Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs has the
right to cancel my candidature/ or appointment.
I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior
to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible
according to the regulations of this examination.
I further declare that I will be subjected to the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
in relation to examination procedure and issuing results.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
PART B
(To be filled by the Head of Department)
I declare that I have verified that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………….,
Class I/Class II of the Public Management Assistants Service/
Provincial Government Public Management Assistants Service/Local
Government Public Management Assistants Service,
(a) has earned all increments during the 5 years immediately
preceding 02.12.2013.
(b) and has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment
during the 5 years immediately preceding 02.12.2013 and
that the information furnished in the application is true. I
hereby certify that the examination fees have been paid
and the receipt is attached herewith.
Recommendation :
(i) Applicant’s  suitability for service in Missions abroad :
(ii) Whether he/she can or cannot be released, if selected.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department
with the Official Frank.
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
11–361
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.