

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1819$3 - 2013 cQ,s ui 15 jeks i÷od - 2013'07'15
No. 1819/3  - MONDAY ,  JULY 15,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No.  14  OF  2008
Order under Sub-Section (4) of Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-section (4) of Section 3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008
as amended, I, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Minister of Investment Promotions, being the Minister in Charge of the
subjects of Investment, do by this Order decalre that :
(1) The Notification which identified the Project for development, operation and mangement of a special Zone for
heavy industries in Sampur Area and inter-alia sourcing and establishing other Board of Investment of Sri Lanka approved
projects of which the envisaged  Investment of United States Dollars Four Thousand Million (US$ 4,000 Mn.) through its
own investment and/or procure the investment by prospective investors and do the necessary physical and social
infrastructure including educaion and health facilities, modern settlement with leisure and recreation facilities, constructed
deep water jetty and stock file yard and other facilities such as internal roads, provision of power requirements, water supply,
sewerage and water treatments conducive to attach and facilitate investment by the investors within the Heavy Industrial
Zone at Sampur situated within the administrative District of Trincomalee in the Eastern Province, as a Strategic Development
Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, was published in the Gazette Extraoridnary No. 1796/9 dated 06.02.2013.
(2) The approval of the Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in terms of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 to declare
that the Project for development, operation and management of a special Zone for heavy industries in Sampur Area and inter-
alia sourcing and establishing other Board of Investment of Sri Lanka approved projects of which the envisaged investment
of United States Dollars Four Thousand Million (US$ 4,000 Mn.) through its own investment and/or procure the investment
by prospective investors and do the necessary physical and social infrastructure including educaion and health facilities,
modern settlement with leisure and recreation facilities, constructed deep water jetty and stock file yard and other facilities
such as internal roads, provision of power requirements, water supply, sewerage and water treatments conducive to attach
and facilitate investment by the investors within the Heavy Industrial Zone at Sampur situated within the administrative
District of Trincomalee in the Eastern Province, as a Strategic Development Project  ;
(3) The above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as the  "Project for development, operation
and management of a special Zone for heavy industries in Sampur Area and inter-alia sourcing and establishing other Board
of Investment of Sri Lanka approved projects of which the envisaged investment of United States Dollars Four Thousand
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2013
2A
Million (US$ 4,000 Mn.) through its own investment and/or procure the investment by prospective investors and do the
necessary physical and social infrastructure including educaion and health facilities, modern settlement with leisure and
recreation facilities, constructed deep water jetty and stock file yard and other facilities such as internal roads, provision of
power requirements, water supply, sewerage and water treatments conducive to attach and facilitate investment by the
investors within the Heavy Industrial Zone at Sampur situated within the administrative District of Trincomalee in the Eastern
Province" and that the Project Company is Sri Lanka Gateway Industries (Private) Limited ;
(4) The aforesaid shall commence its commercial operations within Seven (07) years form the Effective date as stated
and defined in the Project Agreement signed with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka on 13th June, 2012 ; and
(5) The exemptions from the enactments specified in the Schedule to this Order shall apply to the Project Company
subject to the limitations noted therein.
SCHEDULE
(a)  The Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006
- The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 as amended relating to the imposition of income
tax of the Project Company on the profits and income form the Project shall not apply for a period of Twenty
Five (25) years ("Tax Exemption Period"). The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits
shall be exempted from income tax during the siad Tax Exemption Period and one (1) year thereafter.
- the said exemption period to commence from either the first year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profit or Two (02) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls first.
- The Project Comany shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax, on interest paid on foreign
loans obtained for capital expenditure and on technical fees paid to consultants employed in the Project.
- Provided that after the expiration of the Tax Exemption Period referred to above, income tax in respect of the
profits and income of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue
Act for the time being in force.
- The expatriate staff  of the Project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As You
Earn Tax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of
Twenty (20) employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of Five (05) years from the date of
commencement of commercial operations.
(b) The V alue Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
- The importation of project related goods and the local purchases of porject related goods and services
including payments payable to contractors and Sub-contractors as approved by the Project Company
during the Project Implementation/Construction Period shall be exempted from charge and payment of Value
Added Tax (VAT) under Value Added Tax Act (VAT) No. 14 of 2002 as amended. The VAT exemption shall be
applicable not only for direct supplies to the Project Company/Project but also supplies made by a Sub
contractor to a contractor as approved by the Project Company for supplies to the Project Company/Project.
- The revnue from the services rendered by the Project Company shall be zero rated during the Project
Implementation/Construction Period of the Project after completion of Phase 1 or for a period of Three (03)
yeas from the effective date as stated in the Project Agreement whichever occurs first.
- After the completion of Phase I, Phase II and Phase III or a period of Seven (07) years from the Effective Date
as per the Project Agreement whichever occurs sooner, the revenue from the services rendered by the
Project Company, will be zero rated if the services provided fall within the provision of paragraphs (b) or (c)
of Sub-section (1) of Section (7) of the V A T Act. Any other services, other than the services which are zero
rated, will be liable to V AT at the normal rate.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.07.2013
3A
SCHEDULE  (Contd.)
(c) The Port an Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
- The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL)
on all items imported for implementing the Project during the Project Implementation /Construction Period as
described and permitted in the Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011 as amended.
(d) Nation Building Tax Act, No. 09 of 2009
Nation Building Tax Act, No. 09 of 2009 as amended shall not be applicable for a total period of Seven (07)
years from the Effective Date as per the Project Agreement.
(e) Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005
Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005 as amended shall not be applicable only for the payment of construction
Industry Guarantee Fund Levy during the Project Implementation/Construction period of Seven (07) years
from the Effective Date as per the Project/Agreement.
(f) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
All imports of project related capital and construction goods required for the Project, in the name of the
Project Company or by the contractors and th Sub-contractors approved by the Project Company shall be
exempted from Customs Duty as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka solely for the purpose of
the Project during the Project Implementation Period of Seven (07) years from the Effective date as per the
Project Agreement.
L
AKSHMAN YAPA ABEYWARDENA, MP
Minister of Investment Promotions.
11th July, 2013.
Colombo.
08 - 16
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.