

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 900
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 856 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"378 – 2024 ud¾;= ui 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2024'03'28
No. 2,378  –  thuRsday, MaRch 28, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th april 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon 05th april, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
853 - B 082554 - 5,403 (03/2024)
N. B.–   the List of Registered  Veterinary surgeons and Practitioners in the year of 2024 has been in the year of 2024 has been published 
in part Vi of this Gazette in English Language. 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
854
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a sri 
Lankan. a ,sri Lankan, is a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a sinhalese educated in sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public service in a medium other than sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public service. such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  service and Public 
service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  service. heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public service, Provincial Public 
service, Public corporate sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
855
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
hall. should the supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. however in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice of the supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
856
Post - v acant
SRI  LANkA  POLICE
Post of Sub Inspector of Police 
aPPLicatioNs  are invited from the citizens of sri Lanka for the Post of Probationary sub inspector of Police of sri 
Lanka Police. 
2.  application forms duly perfected in accordance with the specimen form given below should be sent to director/
Recruitment, Recruiting Office, No. 375, 1st Floor Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, Colombo – 06. The application 
should be sent by the Registered Post to the above address to reach on or before 30.04.2024 and the post applied for 
should be marked in the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. delayed applications will not be 
entertained and no applications will be issued by the sri Lanka Police.
3. Salary scale (monthly ):
  
Rs. 32,790 – 7 x370 – 2x495 – 25x660 – Rs. 52,870
As per the Public Administration Circular 3-2016, the above mentioned salary scale will be effect.
Further, these Officers are entitled to the allowances granted under the CRTM 260 and RTM 385 dated 2022.12.15 on 
a monthly basis in addition to the salary scale mentioned above. 
 (a) cost of living allowance  Rs.  12,800.00
 (b) 40% of the basic salary relevant to the post
             based on P.a.circular No. 03/2016  Rs.  13,116.00
 (c) arduous duty allowance  Rs.    2,000.00
 (d) incentive allowance  Rs.    7,500.00
 (e) uniform cleaning allowance  Rs.       250.00
 (f) Food and residential allowance  Rs.   31,800.00
 (g) other allowances according to the service 
 in addition to the above said allowances :
 (a)  Free transport facility
 (b)  Free medical facilities for Officers (Financial support can be obtained even for getting medical treatment 
abroad)
 (c)  all the uniforms will be provided free of charge
 (d)  opportunities to continue their higher studies at the Government universities to obtain degree or diploma 
certificates according to the eligible qualifications of the officers.  
 (e)  Facilities to enhance one’s sports skills and inborn talents
 (f)  Travelling expenses for duties and financial rewards for exceptional performance and arduous service
4. Basic qualifications required :
       4.1 Age limit   
the age should be between 18 and 26 years as at closing date of the applications as per the Gazette Notification. 
However Police Officers currently serving in the Sri Lanka Police are eligible to apply up to the age of 28 at the 
closing date of applications.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
857
 4.2  Educational qualifications
Should have passed 06 subjects in the G.C.E (O/L) Examination in one sitting with 04 credit passes including 
Mathematics and Medium Language and Should have passed 03 subjects in the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in one 
sitting. 
Note:	 			01.	 According	 to	the	subject	classification	of	the	Department	of	Examinations,	two	Mathematics	Subjects	
bearing	No.	41	and	44	are	considered	as	a	single	subject	and	two	Science	Subjects	bearing	No.	42	
and	45	are	also	considered	as	a	single	subject	when	determining	the	number	of	subjects	passed	at	the	
examination
	 02.	 Despite	 having	passed	the	practical	test	of	the	Technological	Studies			at	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	examination,	
failing	in	the	written	test	of	the	same	subject	is	considered	as	having	failed	the	said	subject.	
03.	 Since	 the	subjects,	Optional	Tamil,	English	and	Sinhala	are	not	included	in	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	subject	
stream,	having	passed	those	subjects	is	not	considered	as	one	of	the	subjects	passed	at	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
examination.	
       4.3  Physical requirements:
	 •	 height 05 Feet 06 inches (167.64  cm) - minimum (minimum)
	• 	 chest 32 inches Minimum  (81.28 cm) -   minimum/during expiration
 4.3.1 All the applicants should be physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post and to work 
anywhere within sri Lanka 
 4:3:2  v ision Requirements
  Minimum vision of one eye, without wearing spectacles or contact lens, should not be less than 6/12. if 
the vision of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other eye should be 6/18.  
 4:3:3  Should not have undergone artificial body modifications which might be deemed unsuitable for the 
honour of police service or may cause obstruction in the execution of duty.
 4:4  Other Qualifications
 4:4:1 should be a citizen of sri Lanka,
 4:4:2  the applicant should not possess a tarnished character,
 4:4:3  The applicant should be a bachelor (divorcees, widows, and single parents are not qualified to apply),
 4:4:4  should be prepared to work anywhere in the country, 
 4:4:5  Qualifications mentioned in the application from 4:1 to 4:2 which are required for the post are expected to 
have been fully acquired by the date mentioned in the notice inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 are expected to remain the same even on the date of recruitment. 
 
5.   Preliminary Interview
 Only the applicants who meet the basic qualifications and age requirement out of those who have furnished the 
applications will be called for the preliminary interview. During the interview, qualifications mentioned in paragraph 
4:1,4:2 and 4:3  (except 4:3:1 and 4:3:2) mentioned above will be checked. 
 The applicants who face the preliminary interview should face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers 
appointed by the Inspector General of Police. The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified that the applicant 
is not unfit to face this endurance test should be furnished then with the recommendation of a doctor registered with Sri 
Lanka Medical council.
       

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
858
Activity Time marks
Long distance Running 1000 
meters
Below 03 minutes 30
Between 03 to 04 minutes 20
Between 04 to 05 minutes 10
chin-ups (05 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
03 marks for each rep
Push-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
sit-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
squat thrusts (15 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
Kim’s Game (Memory t est) 30 seconds to observe items, 
30 seconds to memorize, 120 
seconds to write
a  maximum of 10 marks with 
01 marks for each item
Note:	 Applicants	 who	fail	to	run	a	distance	of	1000	meters	in	05	minutes	are	considered	having	failed	the	fitness	
test. 
6.   Written Examination :
the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for the written examination. the written 
examination will be held under the following subjects.
             Subjects Maximum 
marks
t ime Qualified marks 
01. comprehension and 
language proficiency  
40 45 min
40%02. General knowledge and 
i.Q. test
60 01 hour
7. Structured Interview :
only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and written examination will be directed to the structured 
interview. the structured interview Board will be appointed by the inspector General of Police. 
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum 
Mark
Cut-Off Mark for 
selection
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Not applicable
02.  Language proficiency 10
03.  computer skill / other 10
04. sports skills 20
05. Leadership/community services 20
06. Evaluation of the interview board 20
t otal 100

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
859
8. method of Recruitment
the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written Examination and structured interview is listed 
in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which is 125% of the number of 
vacancies, will be called for the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants out of those will be 
recruited for the post based on the number of available vacancies.
Note:-		 Deviating	 from	the	above	procedural	measures,	the	applicants	who	possess	exceptional	sports	
skills	on	national	or	international	level	or	have	displayed	special	talents	or	proficiency	in	a	
different	field	may	be	recruited	at	the	discretion	of	the	appointing	authority,	disregarding	the	
height	and	chest	requirement,	if	such	applicant	meets	other	qualifications.
9.   background Check
 9.1 a  background check will be conducted to check any adverse reports on the   applicants based on the number of 
available vacancies and the arrangement of the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written 
Examination and structured interview listed in descending order.
 
 9.2 With the intention of getting the applicant’s character exposed, background checks will also be carried out on the 
applicant, on his next of kin and on his close companions and applicants with negative background check reports 
will not be recruited. 
 
 9.3  Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, after 
the recruitment, that false information had been provided, service will be terminated at any time .
Note :-  Applicant is bound to agree to the decision that he will be dismissed from the service, If it’s found 
that the applicant who had recruited to Police Service by providing the false information in relation 
to the matters mentioned in Section 59 of the code of procedure rule and the section  7:2:4:5:2 of 
the currently approved scheme of recruitment and the circular No. 2014/2007 of IG Police circular.
10. medical Test
 only the selected applicants will be called for the Medical t est and the test is conducted by the Medical Board headed 
by the Chief Medical Officer of Police Hospital. In addition, a test will be performed on the applicants to check 
whether they are physically and mentally fit to perform police duties. An applicant can take the medical test only once. 
the medical test will be conducted under health 169 form. appeals will not be considered from the applicants who 
disqualify from the medical test.
11. Training
 11.1  Based on the vacancies available, only the applicants who have passed the above tests will be called for training on 
a date specified by the Inspector General of Police. Selected applicants will receive the preliminary training at Sri 
Lanka Police College. Afterwards, they will receive extensive training in the respective field during the probation 
period.
 11.2  Appointing authority will decide whether to extend the training period or nullify the appointment of the officers 
who do not complete their preliminary training.
12. Nature of Post
Permanent and pensionable
(Subject to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension scheme)

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
860
13. Service Conditions
 13.1  selected applicants should serve a probation period/apprenticeship of three years under the section 13.3
 13.2  the selected applicants shall act in conformity with any orders or circulars already made or may hereafter be made 
to implement the Official Language Policy. 
 13.3  should abide by the circulars of Public service  commission and National Police commission, , provisions of 
Establishment code, Financial Regulations, Public administration circulars, t reasury circulars, sri Lanka Police 
Ordinance, Police Gazette Notification, I.G.P. Circulars, Instruction Codes and provisions thereof and conditions 
of the appointment letter
 13.4  The probation period shall prevail for first three years from the date of appointment and the officers are not permitted 
to consummate the marriage during the period. one should enter into marriage only as per the instructions given in 
i.G.P. circulars. if getting married during probation period, a special permission should be obtained from inspector 
General of Police. If this regulation is violated, the appointment shall be nullified. 
 13.5  those who are recruited should serve compulsory service period of 5 years after completion of training. they 
should sign a bond giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses, should there be any that had been spent 
for his/her training and other expenses including uniforms at the time he is handing over the resignation letter 
in the event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his compulsory service period. 
Measures will be taken as per the provisions of Establishment code and Procedural Rules of National Police 
commission and Public service commission in relation to the resignation. 
 
 13.6  When each and every officer of direct recruitment is initially appointed to the police service, who should provide 
particulars of all their assets, which the officer either has absolute ownership to or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General Form No. 261 (revised) to inspector General of Police, to be 
included in his personal file. 
  Officer immediately after the marriage should include the above particulars about his spouse and submit 
  if a new asset or possession as described in the above is acquired, a complete description of the said asset or 
possession should be given in writing to the Inspector General of Police to be included in the personal file.
 13.7 Probationary Sub Inspector of Police should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with the 
constitution of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, as soon as they start the training at sri Lanka Police 
college.
  
14.  Confirmation in service
  
During the three year probationary period, directly recruited officers must maintain a monthly progress file for 33 
months  After the completion of probation period officers will be confirmed in service by the appointing authority. 
Furthermore, if an officer fails to meet the requirements of completing the progress the within probation period, the 
officer will be confirmed to service after deciding the seniority as per procedural rules considering the additional time 
spent after the prescribed period to complete the progress file. 
However, appointments of officers who could not meet the requirement of the first efficiency bar within a period of 
additional 03 years will be nullified unless decided by the appointing authority to confirm the service or to extend the 
probation period.
15 Efficiency Bars:
Efficiency bar examinations should be passed as follows. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
861
The type of  Efficiency 
bar
Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency Bar 
Written Examination/ Professional 
Examination/ Certificate Course/ 
Other
First Efficiency 
Bar Examination 
(Examination for 
Confirmation of Service)
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of  sub 
inspector of Police 
Written, Practical, and oral
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of  
inspector of Police
successful completion of the 
orientation training
Third Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of  chief 
inspector of Police 
successful completion of the 
orientation training
16. Language Proficiency:
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official Language Officers recruited through a medium that is not an official language should obtain 
the proficiency for the relevant official language within the probationary period.
Other Official Language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public Administration 
circular No. 18/2020 and consequent circulars
17. (a) General conditions relevant to the appointment to posts of the public service that have been published in the 
beginning of paragraph (11a) of part 1 of this Gazette Notification will be applicable. 
18. applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (original documents 
should not be submitted) 
(a) Birth Certificate
(b) a  photocopy of the National identity card
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications
19. (a)  applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant heads of 
Department. Those applications   should accompany a certificate indicating that the applicant can be released if 
selected.
 (b) applications should be completed in applicant’s own handwriting on papers and should be sent along with the 
relevant copies of the certificates to the  address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application should 
not be    handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.
 Note:- In addition to the above application the applicant requested to apply online application clicking the “join 
us” in the www.police.lk website or visit www.public.police.lk to forward the completed application.
20. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notification will be rejected. Replies will not be sent to such 
applicants in that regard.
Note:-	 Travelling	or	any	other	expense	will	not	be	paid	by	the	Sri	Lanka	Police	to	the	applicants	who	are	called	for	
interviews	and	examinations.
 Deshabandu Thennakoon,
 inspector General of Police.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
862
SRI  LANkA  POLICE
Post of  Probationary Sub Inspector of Police
sPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  FoRM  
1) (a) Name in full  (Block Letters) :   …………………………………………………………………………………
 ( should be exactly as mentioned in the Nic)
 (i) Name in Full  (sinhala or t amil)
 
 (b) Name with initials :………………………………………………………………………
 (i) Name with initials   (sinhala or t amil)
 
2) National identity card Number :……………………………………………… (a  copy of Nic should be attached)
3) Father’s full name :……………………………………………………………………………………………………
4) Place of birth of the applicant : …………………………………………………………………………………………
 divisional secretariat of the relevant birth place :…………………………Province…………………………………
5) (a) Present address  :…………………………………………………………………………………………………
(i) Present address (sinhala or t amil)
 
 (b) Relevant Police station of present address :………………………………………………………………………
 (c)   Permanent address :……………………………………..…………………………………………………………
 (i) Permanent address  (sinhala or t amil)
 
 
  For office Use 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
863
 (d) Relevant Police station of permanent address :……………………………………………………………………
 (e) Mailing address :………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (f) Grama Niladhari division of permanent address :……………………………………………………………
  divisional secretariat :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 (g) t elephone No : ………………………………… home :…………………………Mobile :……………………
(h) E-mail address :……………………………………………  Whats app No. :…………………………………
6) (a) Race  : …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
7) date of Birth …………(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached.)
 age (as at the closing date of this Gazette notification)
 y ears :……………………………… Months :…………………………………days :……………………………
8) height: - Feet ………………………………inches ……………… chest: - inches …………………………  
 centimeters ……………………                                                    centimeters  …………………
9) Educational Qualification – (Should mention the examinations passed and the copies of   the relevant certificates 
should be attached)
         (a)  G.c.E. (o/L) examination results 
      y ear :……………………………..
      index No :………………………..
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
        (b)  G.c.E. (a/L) examination results 
      y ear :……………………………..
      index No :………………………..
stream Subjects Grade
Z-score 
10)   State preferred language medium, if qualified for the written exam ………………………
11) Marital status ………………………
12)  Present Employment

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
864
13)   are you serving in sri Lanka Police at Present ? ……………………………………
 Post and Rank No :………………………………………………………….
 Place of duty :……………………………….      division :………………………………
14) have you ever served in sri Lanka Police? ……………………………………………………………………
 Post and Rank No :.………………………………………………………………………………………………
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the post……………………………………………………
15) (a)   are you currently serving in an armed Force / V olunteer armed Force ? 
   Post and Rank No :……………………………………(the application should be  forwarded through the    
 Commanding Officer of the respective force ?. 
  (b) Have you ever served in Armed Forces / V olunteer Force ? If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of 
legal  discharge. if you have deserted an armed service or if you have been punished, please provide details. 
16) Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any offence?
  
 Have you ever been accused of an offence (criminal offence/disgraceful offence/corruption) or summoned or 
punished by a court or been subjected to fine as a punishment imposed by a court? (if yes, please provide the 
details).
 
17) Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any  Offence (criminal offence/
disgraceful offence/corruption)? Has anyone ever been accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a court? 
(if yes, please provide the details) ,
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in 
the Police service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be terminated without any compensation.
 
………………………, ………………………………,
 date.  signature of applicant.
18.    Certificate of the Head of the Department: (Only if relevant)
i, hereby declare that Mr.……………………………… forwarding this application is serving in the department /
corporation/Board of ………………………………… and that he can be released for the new post if he/he is selected 
for this post.
   ………………………………………,
signature and stamp of the
head of the department.
 designation :- ……………………………
 date:- ………………………………
Note : - In addition to the above application the applicant requested to apply online application clicking the “join us” 
in the www.police.lk  website or visit www.public.police.lk  to forward the completed application.
03-433/1

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
865
SRI LANkA POLICE
Post of Police Constable
aPPLicatioNs  are invited from the citizens of sri Lanka for the Post of Probationary Police constable of sri Lanka 
Police, 
02.  applications duly prepared according to the specimen application form given below should be forwarded to the address, 
director/ Recruitment, Police Recruitment division, No. 375. First Floor, sri sambuddhathva Jayanthi Mawatha, 
colombo 06. the post you are applying for should be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope in which your 
application is enclosed and it should be forwarded by registered post to reach the above address on or before 30.04.2024 
Late applications will not be considered and applications will not be issued by sri Lanka Police. 
03. Salary Scale- y early
Rs.    29,540 – 7 x 300 – 27 x 370 – Rs. 41,630
this salary scale is calculated according to Public administration circular No. 03/2016.
Further, these officers are entitled to the allowances granted under the CRTM 260 and RTM 385 dated 15.12.2022 on a 
monthly basis in addition to the salary scale mentioned above. 
 (a)  cost of living allowance   Rs. 12,800.00
 (b)  40% allowance entitled to the post 
  as per Pub. admin. circular 03/2016   Rs. 11,816.00
 (c)  arduous duty allowance  Rs. 2,000. 00
 (d)  interim allowance  Rs. 7,500.00
 (e)  uniform allowance   Rs. 250.00
 (f)  Meal and residential allowances   Rs. 28,800.00
 (g) other allowances according to the service
  In addition to these allowances,
 (a) Free transport facility
 (b) Free medical facilities for officers (Financial support can be obtained even for getting medical treatment 
abroad)
 (c) all the uniforms will be provided free of charge
 (d) opportunities to continue their higher studies at the Government universities to obtain degree or diploma 
certificates according to the eligible qualifications of the officers.  
 (e) Facilities to enhance one’s sports skills and inborn talents
 (f) Travelling expenses for duties and financial rewards for exceptional performance and arduous service
04.  Basic Qualifications Required
 4:1 Age Limit:
  the applicant must be aged between 18 – 25 years at the time of the closing date of the application as per the 
gazette notification. 
 4:2 Educational Qualifications:
•	 Having passed 06 subjects with 04 credit passes including a credit pass for the medium language at  
G. C. E. (O/L) examination at one and the same sitting. And the applicant should have passed the subject, 
Mathematics in not more than two sittings.
  Note:	 01.	 According	 to	the	subject	classification	of	the	Department	of	Examinations,	two	Mathematics	
Subjects	bearing	No.	41	and	44	are	considered	as	a	single	subject	and	two	Science	Subjects	

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
866
bearing	No.	42	and	45	are	also	considered	as	a	single	subject	when	determining	the	number	of	
subjects	passed	at	the	examination
	 	 	 	 02.	 Despite	 having	passed	the	practical	test	of	the	Technological	Studies	at	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
examination,	failing	in	the	written	test	of	the	same	subject	is	considered	as	having	failed	the	
said subject. 
	 	 	 	 03.	 Since	 the	subjects,	Optional	Tamil,	English	and	Sinhala	are	not	included	in	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
subject	stream,	having	passed	those	subjects	is	not	considered	as	one	of	the	subjects	passed	at	
G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	examination.	
 4:3 Physical Requirements
•	 height should be 05 feet and 04 inch (162.5  cm) - minimum 
•	 chest should be 30 inches ( 76 cm) - minimum/during expiration
 4:3:1  All the applicants should be physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post and to work 
anywhere within sri Lanka.
 4:3:2  v ision Requirements
  Minimum vision of one eye, without wearing spectacles or contact lens, should not be less than 6/12. if 
the vision of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other eye should be 6/18.  
 4:3:3  Should not have undergone artificial body modifications which might be deemed unsuitable for the 
honour of police service or may cause obstruction in the execution of duty.
 4:4  Other Qualifications
 4:4:1 should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 4:4:2 the applicant should not possess a tarnished character 
 4:4:3 The applicant should be a bachelor (divorcees, widows, and single parents are not qualified to apply)
 4:4:4 should be prepared to work anywhere in the country. 
 4:4:5 Qualifications mentioned in the application from 4:1 to 4:2 which are required for the post are expected to 
have been fully acquired by the date mentioned in the notice inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 are expected to remain the same even on the date of recruitment. 
05.    Preliminary Interview
Only the applicants who meet the basic qualifications and age requirement out of those who have furnished the 
applications will be called for the preliminary interview. During the interview, qualifications mentioned in paragraph 
4:1,4:2 and 4:3  (except 4:3:1 and 4:3:2) mentioned above will be checked. 
The applicants who face the preliminary interview should face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers 
appointed by the Inspector General of Police. The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified that the applicant 
is not unfit to face this endurance test should be furnished then with the recommendation of a doctor registered with Sri 
Lanka Medical council.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
867
Activity Time marks
Long distance Running 1000 
meters
Below 03 minutes 30
Between 03 to 04 minutes 20
Between 04 to 05 minutes 10
chin-ups (05 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
03 marks for each rep
Push-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
sit-ups (15 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
squat thrusts (15 reps) 01 minute a  maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
Kim’s Game (Memory t est) 30 seconds to observe items, 
30 seconds to memorize, 120 
seconds to write
a  maximum of 10 marks with 
01 marks for each item
Note:	 Applicants	 who	fail	to	run	a	distance	of	1000	meters	in	05	minutes	are	considered	having	failed	the	fitness	
test. 
06.    Written Examination
the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for the written examination. the written 
examination will be held under the following subjects.
             Subjects Maximum marks Qualified marks 
01. comprehension and 
language proficiency  
50
40%02. General knowledge and 
i.Q. test
50
07.   Structured Interview
only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and written examination will be directed to the structured 
interview. the structured interview Board will be appointed by the inspector General of Police. 
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum Mark Cut-Off Mark for 
selection
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 15
Not applicable
02. Professional Qualifications 15
03. Language proficiency 10
04. sports skills 20
05. Leadership/community services 20
06. Evaluation of the interview board 20
t otal 100                             

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
868
08.   method of Recruitment
the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written Examination and structured interview is listed 
in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which is 125% of the number of 
vacancies, will be called for the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants out of those will be 
recruited for the post based on the number of available vacancies.
Note	:-		 Deviating	 from	the	above	procedural	measures,	the	applicants	who	possess	exceptional	sports	skills	on	
national	or	international	level	or	have	displayed	special	talents	or	proficiency	in	a	different	field	may	be	
recruited	at	the	discretion	of	the	appointing	authority,	disregarding	the	height	and	chest	requirement,	
if	such	applicant	meets	other	qualifications.
09.   background Check
 9.1  a  background check will be conducted to check any adverse reports on the   applicants based on the number of 
available vacancies and the arrangement of the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written 
Examination and structured interview listed in descending order. 
 9.2  With the intention of getting the applicant’s character exposed, background checks will also be carried out on the 
applicant, on his next of kin and on his close companions and applicants with negative background check reports 
will not be recruited.  
 9.3 Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, after 
the recruitment, that false information had been provided, service will be terminated at any time.
Note :-   Applicant is bound to agree to the decision that he will be dismissed from the service, If it’s found 
that the applicant who had recruited to Police Service by providing the false information in relation 
to the matters mentioned in section 59 of the code of procedure rule and the section  7:2:4:5:2 of the 
currently approved scheme of recruitment and the circular No. 2014/2007 of IG Police circular.
10. medical Test
only the selected applicants will be called for the Medical t est and the test is conducted by the Medical Board headed 
by the Chief Medical Officer of Police Hospital. In addition, a test will be performed on the applicants to check 
whether they are physically and mentally fit to perform police duties. An applicant can take the medical test only once. 
the medical test will be conducted under health 169 form. appeals will not be considered from the applicants who 
disqualify from the medical test.
11. Training
 11.1  Based on the vacancies available, only the applicants who have passed the above tests will be called for training on 
a date specified by the Inspector General of Police. Selected applicants will receive the preliminary training at Sri 
Lanka Police College. Afterwards, they will receive extensive training in the respective field during the probation 
period.
 11.2  Appointing authority will decide whether to extend the training period or nullify the appointment of the officers 
who do not complete their preliminary training.
12. Nature of Post
Permanent and pensionable
(Subject to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension scheme)
 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
869
13. Service Conditions
 13.1  selected applicants should serve a probation period/apprenticeship of three years under the section 13.3
 13.2  the selected applicants shall act in conformity with any orders or circulars already made or may hereafter be made 
to implement the Official Language Policy. 
 13.3  should abide by the circulars of Public service commission, National Police commission, Public service 
commission, Provisions of Establishment code, Financial Regulations, Public administration circulars, t reasury 
Circulars, Sri Lanka Police Ordinance, Police Gazette Notification, I.G.P. Circulars, Instruction Codes and 
provisions thereof and conditions of the appointment letter
 13.4  The probation period shall prevail for first three years from the date of appointment and the officers are not permitted 
to consummate the marriage during the period. one should enter into marriage only as per the instructions given in 
i.G.P. circulars. if getting married during probation period, a special permission should be obtained from inspector 
General of Police. If this regulation is violated, the appointment shall be nullified. 
 13.5 those who are recruited should serve compulsory service period of 5 years after completion of training. they 
should sign a bond giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses, should there be any that had been spent 
for his/her training and other expenses including uniforms at the time he is handing over the resignation letter 
in the event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his compulsory service period. 
Measures will be taken as per the provisions of Establishment code and Procedural Rules of National Police 
commission and Public service commission relation to the resignation. 
 
 13.6  When each and every officer of direct recruitment is initially appointed to the police service, who should provide 
particulars of all their assets, which the officer either has absolute ownership to or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General Form No. 261 (revised) to inspector General of Police, to be 
included in his personal file. 
  Officer immediately after the marriage should include the above particulars about his spouse and submit. 
  if a new asset or possession as described in the above is acquired, a complete description of the said asset or 
possession should be given in writing to the Inspector General of Police to be included in the personal file.
 13.7  Probationary Police Constables should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with the 
constitution of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, as soon as they start the training at sri Lanka Police 
college.
  
14.  Confirmation in Service
  
After the completion of probation period of 03 years, directly recruited officers will be confirmed in service by the 
appointing authority. If an officer fails to meet the requirements of the First Efficiency Bar within probation period, the 
officer will be confirmed in service after deciding the seniority as per Procedural Rules considering the additional time 
spent after the prescribed period.
However, appointments of officers who could not meet the requirement of the first efficiency bar within a period of 
additional 03 years will be nullified unless decided by the appointing authority to confirm the service or to extend the 
probation period.
15. Efficiency Bars:
Efficiency bar examinations should be passed as follows. 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
870
The type of  Efficiency 
bar
Prescribed period for passing 
the Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency Bar 
Written Examination/ Professional 
Examination/ Certificate Course/ 
Other
First Efficiency 
Bar Examination 
(Examination for 
Confirmation of Service)
Before completion of 03 years 
after getting appointed to the 
post of  Police constable Written, Practical and oral
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years 
after getting appointed to the 
post of  Police sergeant successful completion of the 
orientation training
Third Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years 
after getting appointed to the 
post of  Police Sergeant Major successful completion of the 
orientation training
16. Language Proficiency:
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official Language Officers recruited through a medium that is not an official language 
should obtain the proficiency for the relevant official language within 
the probationary period.
Other Official Language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public 
administration circular No. 18/2020 and consequent circulars
17. (a) General conditions relevant to the appointment to posts of the public service that have been published in the 
beginning of paragraph (11a) of part 1 of this Gazette notification will be applicable. 
18. applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (original documents 
should not be submitted) 
(a) Birth Certificate;
(b) A photocopy of the National Identity Card;
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications;
19. (a)  applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant heads of 
Department. Those applications   should accompany a certificate indicating that the applicant can be released if 
selected.
 (b) applications should be completed in applicant’s own handwriting on 11” x 8” papers and should be sent along 
with the relevant copies of the certificates to the  address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application 
should not be handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.
Note - in addition to the above application the applicant requested to apply online application clicking 
the “join us” in the www.police.lk website or visit www.public.police.lk to forward the completed 
application.
20. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notification will be rejected. Replies will not be sent to such 
applicants in that regard.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
871
Note:-	 Travelling	 or	any	other	expense	will	not	be	paid	by	the	Sri	Lanka	Police	to	the	applicants	who	
are	called	for	interviews	and	examinations.
 Deshabandu Tennakoon,
 inspector General of Police.
SRI   LANkA   POLICE
Post of  Probationary Police Constable
sPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  FoRM  
1) (a) Name in full  (Block Letters)   …………………………………………………………………………………
 (Should be exactly as mentioned in the Birth Certificate)
 (i) Name in Full  (sinhala or tamil)
 
 (b) Name with initials :………………………………………………………………………
 (i) Name with initials   (sinhala or tamil)
 
2) National identity card Number ……………………………………………… (a copy of Nic should be attached)
3) Father’s full name ……………………………………………………………………………………………………
4) Place of birth of the applicant …………………………………………………………………………………………
 divisional secretariat of the relevant birth place …………………………Province…………………………………
5) (a) Present address  …………………………………………………………………………………………………
(i) Present address (sinhala or tamil)
 
 (b) Relevant Police station of present address ………………………………………………………………………
 (c)   Permanent address :……………………………………..…………………………………………………………
  For office Use only
size - 2" X 2 1/2

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
872
 (i) Permanent address  (sinhala or tamil)
 
 
 (d) Relevant Police station of permanent address ……………………………………………………………………
 (e) Mailing address ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (f) Grama Niladhari division of permanent address ……………………………………………………………
  divisional secretariat …………………………………………………………………………………………
 (g) t elephone No. ………………………………… home …………………………Mobile ……………………
(h) E-mail address ……………………………………………  Whats app No. …………………………………
6) (a) Race  …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
7) date of Birth …………(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached.)
 Age (As at the closing date of this Gazette notification)
 y ears……………………………… Months…………………………………days……………………………
8) height: - Feet ………………………………inches ……………… chest: - inches …………………………  
 centimeters ……………………                                                    centimeters  …………………
9) Educational Qualification – (Should mention the examinations passed and the copies of   the relevant certificates 
should be attached)
         (a)  G.c.E. (o/L) examination results 
      y ear……………………………....
      index No. ………………………..
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
10)   State preferred language medium, if qualified for the written exam ………………………
11) Marital status ………………………
12)  Present Employment
13)   have you ever served in sri Lanka Police? ……………………………………
 Post and Rank No. ………………………………………………………….
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the post ……………………………………………………

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
873
14) (a)   are you currently serving in an armed Force / V olunteer armed Force ? if yes, the application should be 
forwarded through the Commanding Officer of the respective force ?
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 
  (b) Have you ever served in Armed Forces / V olunteer Force ? If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of 
legal  discharge. if you have deserted an armed service or if you have been punished, please provide details. 
15) Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any offence?
  
 Have you ever been accused of an offence (criminal offence/disgraceful offence/corruption) or summoned or 
punished by a court or been subjected to fine as a punishment imposed by a court? (if yes, please provide the 
details).
 
16) Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any  Offence (criminal offence/
disgraceful offence/corruption)? Has anyone ever been accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a court? 
(if yes, please provide the details) ,
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in 
the Police service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be terminated without any compensation.
 
……………………… ………………………………
 date  signature of applicant
17)    Certificate of the Head of the Department: (Only if relevant)
i, hereby declare that Mr. .……………………………… forwarding this application is serving in the department 
/corporation/Board of ………………………………… and that he can be released for the new post if he/she is 
selected for this post.
   ………………………………………
signature and stamp of the
head of the department
 designation :- ……………………………
 date:- ………………………………
Note : - In addition to the above application the applicant requested to apply online application clicking the “join us” 
in the www.police.lk  website or visit www.public.police.lk  to forward the completed application.
03-433/2

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
874
SRI  LA NkA  POLICE
Post of Police Constable Driver
aPPLicatioNs  are invited from the citizens of sri Lanka for the Post of Probationary Police constable driver of sri 
Lanka Police.
02.  applications duly prepared according to the specimen application form given below should be forwarded to the address, 
director/ Recruitment, Police Recruitment division, No. 375. First Floor, sri sambuddhathva Jayanthi Mawatha, 
colombo 06. the post you are applying for should be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope in which your 
application is enclosed and it should be forwarded by registered post to reach the above address on or before 30.04.2024 
Late applications will not be considered and applications will not be issued by sri Lanka Police. 
03. Salary Scale- y early
 Rs. .   29,540 – 7 x 300 – 27 x 370 – Rs. 41,630
 this salary scale is calculated according to Public administration circular No. 03/2016.
 Further, these officers are entitled to the allowances granted under the CRTM 260 and RTM 385 dated 15.12.2022 on a 
monthly basis in addition to the salary scale mentioned above.
 
   Rs.
 (a)  cost of living allowance  12,800.00
 (b) 40% allowance entitled to the post 
  as per Pub. admin. circular 03/2016  11,816.00
 (c) arduous duty allowance  2,000. 00
 (d) special / interim allowance  7,500.00
 (e) uniform allowance   250.00
 (f) Food and residential allowance   28,800.00
 (g) other allowances according to the service 
  
 In addition to these allowances,
(a) Free transport facility
(b) Free medical facilities for officers (Financial support can be obtained even for getting medical treatment 
abroad)
(c) all the uniforms will be provided free of charge
(d) opportunities to continue their higher studies at the Government universities to obtain degree or diploma 
certificates according to the eligible qualifications of the officers.  
(e) Facilities to enhance one’s sports skills and inborn talents
(f) Travelling expenses for duties and financial rewards for exceptional performance and arduous service
04.  Basic Qualifications Required
  4:1 Age Limit:
the applicant must be aged between 18 – 28 years at the time of the closing date of the application as per 
the Gazette notification. 
  4:2 Educational Qualifications:
Having passed 06 subjects including, Medium Language and Mathematics with credit passes for 02 
subjects at the G.C.E.(O/L) examination in not more than two sittings. 
  Note:	 01.	 According	 to	the	subject	classification	of	the	Department	of	Examinations,	two	Mathematics	
Subjects	bearing	No.	41	and	44	are	considered	as	a	single	subject	and	two	Science	Subjects	

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
875
bearing	No.	42	and	45	are	also	considered	as	a	single	subject	when	determining	the	number	of	
subjects	passed	at	the	examination.
	 	 	 	 02.	 Despite	 having	passed	the	practical	test	of	the	Technological	Studies	at	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
examination,	failing	in	the	written	test	of	the	same	subject	is	considered	as	having	failed	the	
said subject. 
	 	 	 	 03.	 Since	 the	subjects,	Optional	Tamil,	English	and	Sinhala	are	not	included	in	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
subject	stream,	having	passed	those	subjects	is	not	considered	as	one	of	the	subjects	passed	at	
G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	examination.		 	 	 	 	
 4.3.  Professional Qualifications 
  having obtained a valid driving license for driving light vehicles and heavy vehicles
   Note 01:   Priority will be given for the knowledge of Motor Mechanism or experience in repairing   motor 
vehicles or long term experience in driving.
 4:4 Physical Requirements
•	 height should be 05 feet and 02 inch (157.48 cm) - minimum 
•	 chest should be 30 inches ( 76 cm) - minimum/during expiration
 4:4:1  All the applicants should be physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post and to work 
anywhere within sri Lanka.
 4:4:2  vision Requirements
  Minimum vision of one eye, without wearing spectacles or contact lens, should not be less than 6/12. if 
the vision of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other eye should be 6/18. 
 4:4:3  Should not have undergone artificial body modifications which might be deemed unsuitable for the 
honour of police service or may cause obstruction in the execution of duty.
 4:5  Other Qualifications
 4:5:1 should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 4:5:2  the applicant should not possess a tarnished character 
 4:5:3  The applicant should be a bachelor (divorcees, widowers, are not qualified to apply)
 4:5:4  should be prepared to work anywhere in the country. 
 4:5:5  Qualifications mentioned in the application from 4:1 to 4:2 which are required for the post are expected to 
have been fully acquired by the date mentioned in the notice inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 is expected to remain the same even on the date of recruitment. 
05.   Preliminary Interview
 Only the applicants who meet the basic qualifications and age requirement out of those who have furnished the 
applications will be called for the preliminary interview. During the interview, qualifications mentioned in paragraph 
4:1,4:2 and 4:3  (except 4:4:1 and 4:4:2) mentioned above will be checked. 
 The applicants who face the preliminary interview should face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers 
appointed by the Inspector General of Police. The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified that the applicant 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
876
is not unfit to face this endurance test should be furnished then with the recommendation of a doctor registered with Sri 
Lanka Medical council.
 All the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for fitness test and applicants who run a 
distance of 1,000 meters in 05 minutes are considered having passed the fitness test. 
Note:	 Applicants	who	fail	to	run	a	distance	of	1,000	meters	in	05	minutes	are	considered	having	failed	the	
fitness	test.	
06. Professional Examination:
 applicants who get through from the preliminary examination will be called for professional examination. Professional 
examination will be held under following subjects.
subjects maximum marks Pass marks
01.Written 40                20                                                     
30       
50%02. Practical 60
07.   Structured Interview
 only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and professional examination will be directed to the 
structured interview. the structured interview Board will be appointed by the inspector General of Police. 
main headings under which marks are given maximum mark Cut-Off Mark for 
Selection
01. Additional Educational qualifications 20
Not applicable
02 Technical Knowledge/Language Proficiency/ 
computer Literacy / other 
20
03 sports skills 20
04 Leadership/community services 20
05 Evaluation of the interview board 20
total 100              
08.   method of Recruitment
 the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the professional  examination and structured interview is 
listed in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which is 125% of the number 
of vacancies, will be called for the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants out of those will 
be recruited for the post based on the number of available vacancies.
Note:-		 Deviating	 from	the	above	procedural	measures,	the	applicants	who	possess	exceptional	sports	
skills	on	national	or	international	level	or	have	displayed	special	talents	or	proficiency	in	a	
different	field	may	be	recruited	at	the	discretion	of	the	appointing	authority,	disregarding	the	
height	and	chest	requirement,	if	such	applicant	meets	other	qualifications.
09.   background Check
 9.1  A background check will be conducted to confirm the good character of those who fulfilled required qualifications 
for recruitment in accordance to the para 08 above.  

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
877
 9.2  With the intention of getting the applicant’s character exposed, background checks will also be carried out on the 
applicant, on her next of kin and on her close companions and applicants with negative background check reports 
will not be recruited.  
 9.3 Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, after 
recruitment, that false information had been provided, service will be terminated at any time.
Note :-  Applicant is bound to agree to the decision that he will be dismissed from the service, If it’s found 
that the applicant who had recruited to Police Service by providing the false information in relation 
to the matters mentioned in section 59 of the code of procedure rule and the section  7:2:4:5:2 of 
the currently approved scheme of recruitment and the circular No. 2014/2007 of IG Police circular.
10. medical Test
 only the selected applicants will be called for the Medical test and the test is conducted by the Medical Board headed 
by the Chief Medical Officer of Police Hospital. In addition, a test will be performed on the applicants to check 
whether they are physically and mentally fit to perform police duties. An applicant can take the medical test only once. 
the medical test will be conducted under health 169 form. appeals will not be considered from the applicants who 
disqualify from the medical test.
11. Training
 11.1  Based on the vacancies available, only the applicants who have passed the above tests will be called for training on 
a date specified by the Inspector General of Police. Selected applicants will receive the preliminary training at Sri 
Lanka Police College. Afterwards, they will receive extensive training in the respective field during the probation 
period.
 11.2  Appointing authority will decide whether to extend the training period or nullify the appointment of the officers 
who do not complete their preliminary training.
12. Nature of Post
 Permanent and pensionable
 (Subject to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension scheme)
13. Service Conditions
 13.1 selected applicants should serve a probation period/apprenticeship of three years under the section 13.3
 13.2 the selected applicants shall act in conformity with any orders or circulars already made or may hereafter be made 
to implement the Official Language Policy. 
 13.3 should abide by the circulars of Public service commission, National Police commission, provisions of 
Establishment code, Financial Regulations, Public administration circulars, treasury circulars, sri Lanka Police 
ordinance, Police Gazette Notification, I.G.P. Circulars, Instruction Codes and provisions thereof and conditions 
of the appointment letter.
 13.4 The probation period shall prevail for first three years from the date of appointment and the officers are not permitted 
to consummate the marriage during the period. one should enter into marriage only as per the instructions given in 
i.G.P. circulars. if getting married during probation period, a special permission should be obtained from inspector 
General of Police. If this regulation is violated, the appointment shall be nullified. 
 13.5 those who are recruited should serve compulsory service period of 5 years after completion of training. they 
should sign a bond giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses, should there be any that had been spent 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
878
for his/her training and other expenses including uniforms at the time he is handing over the resignation letter 
in the event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his compulsory service period. 
Measures will be taken as per the provisions of Establishment code and Procedural Rules of National Police 
commission, Public service commission in relation to the resignation. 
 
 13.6 When each and every officer of direct recruitment is initially appointed to the police service, who should provide 
particulars of all their assets, which the officer either has absolute ownership to or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General Form No. 261 (revised) to inspector General of Police, to be 
included in his personal file. 
  Officer immediately after the marriage should include the above particulars about his spouse and submit 
  if a new asset or possession as described in the above is acquired, a complete description of the said asset or 
possession should be given in writing to the Inspector General of Police to be included in the personal file.
 13.7 Probationary Police Constable driver should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with the 
constitution of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, as soon as they start the training at sri Lanka Police 
college.
14.  Confirmation in service
  
 After the completion of probation period of 03 years, directly recruited officers will be confirmed in service by the 
appointing authority. If an officer fails to meet the requirements of the First Efficiency Bar within probation period, the 
officer will be confirmed in service after deciding the seniority as per Procedural Rules considering the additional time 
spent after the prescribed period.
 However, appointments of officers who could not meet the requirement of the first efficiency bar within a period of 
additional 03 years will be nullified unless decided by the appointing authority to confirm the service or to extend the 
probation period.
15 Efficiency Bars:
Efficiency bar examinations should be passed as follows. 
The type of  Efficiency Bar Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency Bar 
Written Examination/ Professional 
Examination/ Certificate Course/ 
Other
First Efficiency Bar 
Examination (Examination for 
Confirmation of Service)
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of 
Police constable driver Written, Practical, and oral
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of 
Police sergeant driver successful completion of the 
orientation training
Third Efficiency Bar 
Examination Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of 
Police Sergeant Major Driver
successful completion of the 
orientation training
Fourth Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completing 03 years of sub 
inspector(t ransport)
successful completion of the 
orientation training

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
879
16. Language Proficiency:
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official Language Officers who have joined through English medium should obtain relevant 
level of language proficiency within the recruitment period.
Other Official Language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public 
administration circular No. 18/2020 and consequent circulars
17. (a) General conditions relevant to the appointment to posts of the public service that have been published in the 
beginning of paragraph (11a) of part 1 of this gazette notification will be applicable. 
18. applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (original documents 
should not be submitted) 
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) a  photocopy of the National identity card,
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications,
(d) copy of the valid license. 
19. (a)  applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant heads 
of Department. Those applications should accompany a certificate indicating that the applicant can be released 
if selected.
 (b) applications should be completed in applicant’s own handwriting on 11” x 8” papers and should be sent 
along with the relevant copies of the certificates to the address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the 
application should not be handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.
Note -  In addition to the above application the applicant requested to apply online application clicking 
the “join us” in the www.police.lk  website or visit www.public.police.lk  to forward the completed 
application.
20. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notification will be rejected. Replies will not be sent to such 
applicants in that regard.
Note:-	 Travelling	or	any	other	expense	will	not	be	paid	by	the	Sri	Lanka	Police	to	the	applicants	who	are	
called	for	interviews	and	examinations.
 Deshabandu Thennakoon,
 inspector General of Police.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
880
SRI  LANkA  POLICE
Post of  Probationary Police Constable Driver
sPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  FoRM  
1) (a) Name in full  (Block Letters)   …………………………………………………………………………………
 (Should be exactly as mentioned in the Birth Certificate)
 (i) Name in Full  (sinhala or t amil)
 
 (b) Name with initials :………………………………………………………………………
 (i) Name with initials   (sinhala or t amil)
 
2) National identity card Number ……………………………………………… (a  copy of Nic should be attached)
3) Father’s full name ……………………………………………………………………………………………………
4) Place of birth of the applicant …………………………………………………………………………………………
 divisional secretariat of the relevant birth place …………………………Province…………………………………
5) (a) Present address  …………………………………………………………………………………………………
(i) Present address (sinhala or t amil)
 
 (b) Relevant Police station of present address ………………………………………………………………………
 (c)   Permanent address :……………………………………..…………………………………………………………
 (i) Permanent address  (sinhala or t amil)
 
 
  For office Use only
size - 2" X 2 1/2

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
881
 (d) Relevant Police station of permanent address : ……………………………………………………………………
 (e) Mailing address : ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (f) Grama Niladhari division of permanent address : ……………………………………………………………
  divisional secretariat : …………………………………………………………………………………………
 (g) t elephone No. : ………………………………… home : …………………………Mobile : …………………
(h) E-mail address : ……………………………………………  Whats app No. :………………………………
6) (a) Race : …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
7) date of Birth …………(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached.)
 age (as at the closing date of this  gazette  notification)
 y ears……………………………… Months…………………………………days……………………………
8) height: - Feet : ………………………………inches :……………… chest: - inches :…………………………  
 centimeters ……………………                                                    centimeters  …………………
9) Educational Qualification – (Should mention the examinations passed and the copies of   the relevant certificates 
should be attached)
         (a)  G.c.E. (o/L) examination results 
      y ear :……………………………..
      index No :………………………..
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
10)   State preferred language medium, if qualified for the written exam :………………………
11) Marital status :………………………
12)  Present Employment
13)   have you ever served in sri Lanka Police? ……………………………………
 Post and Rank No :………………………………………………………….
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the post ……………………………………………………
14) (a)   are you currently serving in an armed Force / V olunteer armed Force / if yes, the application should be 
forwarded through the Commanding Officer of the respective force.
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 
  (b) Have you ever served in Armed Forces / V olunteer Force ? If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of 
legal  discharge. if you have deserted an armed service or if you have been punished, please provide details. 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
882
15) Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any offence?
  
 Have you ever been accused of an offence (criminal offence/disgraceful offence/corruption) or summoned or 
punished by a court or been subjected to fine as a punishment imposed by a court? (if yes, please provide the 
details).
 
16) Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any  Offence (criminal offence/
disgraceful offence/corruption)? Has anyone ever been accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a court? 
(if yes, please provide the details) .
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in 
the Police service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be terminated without any compensation.
 
………………………, ………………………………,
 date  signature of applicant.
17)    Certificate of the Head of the Department: (Only if relevant)
i, hereby declare that Mr.……………………………… forwarding this application is serving in the department /
corporation/Board of ………………………………… and that he can be released for the new post if he is selected 
for this post.
   ………………………………………
signature and stamp of the
head of the department
 designation :- ……………………………
 date:- ………………………………
Note : - In addition to the above application the applicant requested to apply online application clicking the “join us” 
in the www.police.lk  website or visit www.public.police.lk  to forward the completed application.
03-433/3
_______________________________________
PubLIC   SER vICE   COmmISSION
Recruitment for  the post of Legal Officer  (Executive  Officer Service  Category Grade III) in the Skills Development, 
v ocational Education, Research & Innovation Division of the ministry of Education on Open basis - 2024
aPPLicatioNs  are invited to fill the vacant post of Legal Officer- Grade III of Executive Officer Service Category in the 
skills development, V ocational Education, Research & innovation division of the Ministry of Education from sri Lankan 
citizens who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in this notification.
1. Recruitment
 the candidate who obtained the highest marks on the results of an Eligibility assessment conducted by an Eligibility 
assessment interview Board appointed by the Public service commission from among the applicants, who have 
fulfilled the qualifications specified in the notification, will be recruited for the vacancy. The Eligibility Assessment 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
883
interview will be conducted in conformity with the Marking scheme (Mentioned under No. 6) approved by the Public 
service commission.
 The Public Service Commission shall decide the effective date of the appointment.
2. Required Qualifications
 i. Educational / Professional Qualifications
  should have sworn in as an attorney - at - Law of the supreme court.
 ii. Experience
  should have an active professional experience of not less than 03 years after swearing in as an attorney -at-
Law of the supreme court. (the documents to be furnished at the interview as proof of active professional 
experience should clearly indicate the period of experience, date and official seal of the attester.)
or
 should have not less than 03 year experience in a Legal post* in a Government institution after swearing in as 
an attorney- at - Law of the supreme court.
 (These facts should be confirmed by a letter issued by the Secretary / Head of the Department /Head of the 
institution)
 Note:  Copies of the documents confirming basic qualifications certified by the applicant himself / herself, 
should be attached to the application. Applications without the attached certificates with clear indication 
of commencement and end date of service period could be rejected without notice.
 
 *A legal post is a post having a Law Degree or sworn in as an Attorney - at - Law being a basic qualification of 
recruitment.
 iii. Physical fitness
  Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in an any part of Sri Lanka and perform duties in 
the post.
 iv. Other qualifications
• Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
• Should have an excellent moral character.
• Should have complete all the required qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the post by the last date 
of calling applications.
3. Terms of Employment and Terms of Service
 i. This post is permanent and pensionable. You will be subject to future government policy decisions regarding 
a pension scheme. y ou must contribute to the Widows and orphans Pension scheme / Widowers and orphans 
Pension scheme. y ou will have to pay its contribution as required by the Government from time to time.
 ii. This appointment is subject to a probationary period of 03 (three) years. You should pass the first efficiency bar 
examination a mentioned in the scheme of Recruitment within 03 years of being recruited to the post.
 iii. Proficiency in the other language in addition to the language of recruitment, should be obtained prior to the expiry 
of five years of Appointment to the post, in accordance with the Provisions of the Public Administration Circular 

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
884
No. 18/ 2020 dated 16.l0.2020 or provisions of conjunctive Circulars and the officers who were recruited in a 
medium other than an official language, should obtained the stipulated language proficiency within the probation 
period.
 iv. The appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishment Code 
of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, Government Financial Regulations and other departmental 
Regulations.
 v. the language medium of preference mentioned in the application will not be permitted to change subsequently 
and the language medium you are eligible for appointment will be the language medium mentioned by you in 
the application form.
4. age Limit
 should not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of the applications.
5.	 salary scale
 in terms of sub - schedule i of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the monthly salary 
scale applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615-10xl,335- 8xl ,630-l 7x2,170-110,895/-(sL-l-2016)
6.	 Following marking scheme of marking will be adopted for the Eligibility.
Serial 
No
Subject marks maximum 
marks
l.) Additional Educational  Qualifications
a.)   a Post Graduate degree obtained from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission in relation to field of Law
b.)  a Post Graduate diploma obtained from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission in relation to field of Law or a 
Post Graduate Diploma in relation to the field Law obtained from a 
higher Law Education institution of sri Lanka Law college
c.)   Degree in Law offered by a University recognized by the 
university  Grants commission
•	 For a first class
•	 For a second-class upper division
•	 For a class
•	 For a general pass
d.)   For the first-class final year of Law College
For the second class in the final year of Law College
Note1: above 05 marks will be allocated if the candidate has passed 
final year with honors in Law College
Note 11 :  Marks  will  be  allocated  only  for  the highest qualification.
25
25
20
15
10
07
05
10
05

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
885
Serial 
No.
Subject marks maximum 
marks
2) Additional  Experience ;
Prepare the documents relevant to cases and capacity in expression the 
ideas in open court
Filling cases 
(For one case)
For appearing in the 
court and expression the 
ideas (For one case)
supreme court 2 5
appeal court 2 4
high court 2 3
district court 4 5
t ribunal 2 3
Note: Copies of decisions of the relevant cases or certified copy of the 
report of case which heard on last date, should be submitted to the 
interview Board.
35
3) Knowledge on information t echnology /information 
t echnology Law
a.)  For studying the subject of Information Technology or Computer 
Science as a main subject for a degree from a University recognized 
by the university Grants commission.
b.)  a  diploma of information and communication t echnology Law 
obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission or sri Lanka Law college or other professional 
institution recognized by the Government.
c.)    a  diploma of computer science or information t echnology obtained 
from a university recognized by the university Grants commission 
or a diploma of computer science or information t echnology in  
NVQ level 5 or above level of it, obtained from other institution.
d)     Certificates  obtained  through  following  a  course/  participating 
 in training  programs  in  the  field  of Information and Communication 
t echnology Law from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or sri Lanka Law college or  other professional 
institution recognized by the Government. (Marks will be given for 
maximum 2 certificates as 02 each for one certificate).
Note:  Marks will be allocated only for the highest qualification.
10
08
05
04
10

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
886
Serial 
No.
Subject marks maximum 
marks
4.) Language proficiency ;
a)     English as a main subject for a degree from a University recognized 
by the university Grants commission.
b)     English proficiency displayed in (Moot Court Competitions 
recognized in international, national level
Individual
i First Place /best skill            - 12
ii. second Place - 10
iii. third Place /other skills     - 08
Groups
i. First Place /best skill            - 10 
ii. second Place - 18 
iii. third Place /other skills      - 06
c)      a  diploma of English obtained from a  university recognized by the 
university Grants commission or a diploma of English in NcQ 
level 05 or above level of it, obtained from other institution.
d)    obtain minimum very good pass for English Language in G.c.E. 
(a/L) examination (Local or London) or t otal 6.5 08 or above 
marks for iEL ts, toFEL -iBt  79 or above, toFEL - cBt  213 or 
above or toFEL -PBt  550 or above
e.)     higher certificate obtained _for English Language  from a university 
recognized by university Grant commission or NVQ level 4 
certificate for English Language obtained from other Institute.
Note: Marks will be allocated only for the highest qua!ification.
15
12
10
08
05
15
5.) merit proved at the interview ;
Marks will be given for the answers provide for the questions by assessing 
the
• Strength Questions ( 02 Marks)
• Situational Questions (03 Marks) and
• Competency Questions (IO Marks)
 of candidates ability to perform the role of the post.
t otal
15
100

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
887
7. Identity of candidates :
 only the candidates, who have submitted applications perfected each and every way, will be called for the interview for 
evaluation of eligibility.
 Originals of all certificates and copies certified properly shall be submitted at the interview.
 Following documents are accepted for the purpose of proving the identity of candidate at the interview.
 i. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner General ;
 ii. Valid passport.
8. Submission of Applications:
 i.  applications should be sent by registered post to reach secretary, Ministry of Education, skills development, 
V ocational Education, Research & innovation division, Nipunatha Piyasa, 354 /2, Elvitigala Mawatha, 
Narahenpita, colombo 05 on or before 29/04/2024. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
 ii.  Specimen of the application to be submitted is attached at the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare 
themselves the application on a paper size of A 4 including No.01 to 03 on first page and No. 04 to 06 on second 
page and No. 07 to 08 on third page. Application should be filled in the hand writing of the candidate.
 iii. The words “Recruitment for the post of Legal Officer - Grade III)” should be indicated on the top left corner of 
the envelope in which the application form is enclosed.
 iv. The signature of the candidate on the application should be certified by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of Peace/ Commissioner of oaths/ Attorney - at  Law/Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer of three 
armed forces or an officer holding a permanent post in the public service or provincial public service and 
receiving a monthly consolidated salary of Rs. 47,615 /- or above.
 v. candidates who are already in public or provincial public service, should submit their applications through the 
head of the institution, where the candidate serve at present.
 vi. Applications which are not conforming to the specimen attached herewith will be rejected. No complain on the 
applications lost or delayed will be entertained.
9.  Submission of false information
 if it found before the recruitment that certain particulars furnished in your application is false or incorrect, your 
candidature will be cancelled. if it found after the recruitment that a certain particular furnished in your application is 
false or incorrect, action will be taken to dismiss you from the service subject to actions relevant in this regard.
10. Public Service Commission reserves the power to fill or refrain from filling the vacancies.
11. Sinhala Language caption should be effected, if any conformity or controversy arisen in the Sinhala, Tamil and 
English captions of this Gazette Notification.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
888
12.  The Decision of the Public Service Commission will be final  in respect  of any issue arisen on a certain matter not 
mentioned in this notification or this process for recruitment.
By order of the Public service commission,
  Wasantha Perera,
  secretary.
Ministry of Education, skills development, 
V ocational Education, Research & innovation division,
Nipunatha  Piyasa,
No. 354/2 Elvitigala Mawatha, Narahenpita,
colombo 05.
22 nd day of the month of March 2024.
Recruitment for the post of Legal Officer in the Skills Development, Vocational Education, Research & 
Innov ation Division of the Ministry of Education
 
Language medium which 
appears to the interview
(Write the relevant No. in the box. Sinhala -2/  (For the official use only.)
tamil-3/ English - 4) 
Note: applied language medium cannot be changed.)
1.0
1.1   Name  in  full  (Mr./ Mrs./ Miss):- .....................................................................................................
 (in sinhala/ tamil)................................................................................................................................
1.2  Full Name:- .........................................................................................................................................
 (in  English  capital letters).................................................................................................................
1.3   Name  with  initials   (Mr./Mrs./Miss):- ..............................................................................................
 (in  sinhala/ tamil)..............................................................................................................................
1.4 Name with initials: -  ...........................................................................................................................
  (in  English/  capitai letters)..................................................................................................................
2.0
2.1   Permanent address: - ...........................................................................................................................
 (in sinhala /t amil)
2.2.  Permanent  address-: ...........................................................................................................................
 (in English capital letters )
2.3.   telephone    No. : -  ..............................................................................................................................

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
889
3.0
3.1 sex:  Male     0 
  Female 1                                      (Write in the relevant box)
3.2 civil status :- Married     1               (Write in the relevant box)
unmarried 0 
3.3 date of Birth :- y ear ...................  Month .................................... date.........................
3.4 age as at 29.04.2024 :- y ears                       Months              days   
3.5 National identity card No:
4.0 4.1  Details of the qualifications obtained pertaining to the applications inviting notification for the Interview 
 Qualification Obtained Institution Date obtained
 ................................... .......................................... ........................................
 ................................... ........................................... ........................................
4.2  date of sworn as an attorney- at - Law in supreme court:-..................................................
4.3  Details pertaining to obtain each qualification mentioned in No. 06 of the Applications Inviting Notification 
 Qualification Obtained Institution Date obtained / duration
 1.  Additional educational qualifications
 ................................... .......................................... ........................................
 ................................... ........................................... ........................................
 2. additional professional experience
 ................................... .......................................... ........................................
 ................................... ........................................... ........................................
 3. Knowledge in information technology
 ................................... .......................................... ........................................
 ................................... ........................................... ........................................
 4. Language Proficiency
 ................................... .......................................... ........................................
 ................................... ........................................... ........................................

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
890
5.0 Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence? 
 Put a tick in the relevant box. (if “yes” give the  Particulars)
  
6.0 Certification by Applicant
 i declare that all particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate and have completed all the parts 
correctly. i also agree to be bounded by any decision that may be taken to cancel my appointment or to dismissal from 
service if it is found that any particular mentioned herein by me is false. i further do hereby agree to all the terms and 
conditions mentioned here.
      ...............................................
 date :............................................ signature of the applicant.
7.0 attestation of the candidate signature
 i do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................................................... who submitted this application is 
personally known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence of me.
 ...............................................................
 Signature of the certifying Officer
 Full Name: ...................................................................................................
 designation:  ................................................................................................
 date:     .........................................................................................................
 (Official seal)
8.0 Recommendation of the head of the department (only for the candidates who engage in the government 
employments)
 i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................................................. is working in this institution, and the 
information furnished by him/ her is accurate and no any allegation or disciplinary action pending against him/her and 
if he/she will be selected for this post, he/she can be released from the service.
 ....................................................................................................
 signature of the head of the department/ head of the institution 
 Name:      ......................................................................................................
 designation: - ...............................................................................................
 address: .......................................................................................................
 date:       .......................................................................................................
 (Official seal)
03-446
No yes

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
891
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
Recruitment on Open basis to the Post of Legal Officer  (Executive  Officer Grade Ill) 
in Department of forest Conservation - 2024
aPPLicatioNs are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who meet the qualifications mentioned in this notice to fill the 
vacant post of Grade III Legal Officer in the Executive Service Category of the Department of Forest Conservation under 
the Ministry of Wildlife and Forest Resources conservation.
1. mode of Recruitment :
 
 Among the candidates who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the notice, the candidate who secures the 
highest marks on the basis of the results of an aptitude test (interview) conducted by a panel appointed by the Public 
service commission will be recruited for the post. the aptitude t est (interview) will be conducted in accordance with 
the marking scheme approved by the Public service commission (referred to in No. 06).
 The effective date of the appointment will be decided by the Public Service Commission.
2. Required Qualifications:
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualification
 he/she should be an attorney-at-law who took oaths at the supreme court of sri Lanka.
(ii) Experience
 he/she should have at least three (03) years of active professional experience as an attorney-at-law after taking 
oaths at the supreme court. (in the documents submitted to prove active professional experience, the period of 
experience gained the seal of the attester and the date of certification should be clearly mentioned.)
or
 Not less than three (03) years of experience in a legal profession* in a government institution after taking oath 
as an attorney-at-law of the supreme court.
 (Should be confirmed by a letter issued by the Secretary/Head of the Department/Institution)
Note: self-attested copies of documents proving basic eligibility should be attached to the application form. 
Applications without certificates of the commencement date and the last date of the service will be 
rejected without any notice.
* A legal profession is a profession where the basic qualification for the recruitment is the law degree or an 
attorney-at-law who took oaths at the supreme court of sri Lanka.
 (iii) Physical fitness
  Every candidate must have adequate physical and mental fitness to serve in any region of Sri Lanka and perform 
the duties of the post.
 (iv) Other qualifications
• Must be a Sri Lankan citizen.
• Applicants must be of excellent character.
• The qualifications required for recruitment to the post must be completed by the closing date.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
892
3. Conditions of Employment and Conditions of Service
 (i) This post is permanent. Pensionable. You should be subject to the future decision taken by the government 
regarding the pension scheme you are entitled to. you must contribute to the Widowers' and orphans' Pension 
scheme. you shall pay the contribution for the same as prescribed by the Government from time to time.
 (ii) This appointment is subject to a probationary period of 03 years. He/she should pass the first efficiency cut-off 
test as mentioned in the recruitment procedure within 03 years after joining the service.
 (iii) according to the provisions mentioned in the Public administration circular No. 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020, 
proficiency in the prescribed other official language/s should be acquired.
 (iv) This appointment is subject to the procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishments 
code of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, the Government's Financial Regulations and other 
departmental orders.
 (v) the language medium applied for cannot be allowed to be changed later, and the language medium in which you 
are eligible for appointment will be the language medium mentioned by you in the application.
4. Age limit
 age should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date for applications.
5. Salary Scale
 as per schedule i of Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the monthly salary scale applicable 
to this post is Rs: 47615-10Xl 335-8Xl 630- l 7X2l 70-l l 0895/- (sL-1-2016).
6.	 the following scoring procedure will be used for the aptitude Evaluation interview.
sub No. Subject Marks highest 
Marks
01 Additional educational qualifications
a.)   Post Graduation in Law from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission
b.)   a  Post Graduate diploma in Law from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission  or a Post Graduate diploma in  
Law from  the institute of advanced Legal studies of the sri Lanka 
Law college
c.) • Bachelor of Laws with first class pass
• Bachelor of Laws with Second Class Upper Pass
• Degree in Law with class pass
• Degree in Law with class pass
obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission
d.)   First class Pass in Final year of Law college second class Pass in 
Final year of  Law college
Note i : the above 05 marks will be given only if the final examination of 
the law college has been passed with honours.
Note II : Marks will be given for the highest qualification only.
25
20
15
10
07
05
10
05
25

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
893
sub No. Subject Marks highest 
Marks
2 Additional professional experience
Preparation of documents related to cases and submissions in open court
Case fillings (for 
one case)
marks for 
appearing before 
the court and 
submitting facts 
(for one case)
supreme court 2 5
court of appeal 2 4
high court 2 3
district court 4 5
Judge 2 3
Note - Copies of the relevant judgments or certified copy of the case report on 
the date of last hearing of the case should be submitted to the interview 
panel to prove the above qualifications.
35
3 knowledge of Information Technology/ IT Law 
a.)   a degree in information technology or computer science as a 
major subject from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission.
b.)   a diploma in information and communication technology Law 
obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission or from the sri Lanka Law   college   or   any other   
professional institute recognized the Government.  
c.) diploma in computer science or information technology obtained 
from a university recognized by the university Grants commission 
or NVQ 5 or a diploma higher than that in computer science or 
information technology obtained from another institution
d.) A certificate obtained after taking a course/participating in training 
programs in the field of Information and Communication Technology 
law in a university recognized by the university Grants commission 
or in the sri Lanka Law academy or any other government recognized 
professional institute (Maximum two marks will be given for two 
certificates at a rate of 02 points per certificate). 
Note: Points will be awarded only to the highest qualification.
10
08
05
04
10
04 Language ability
a.) degree obtained from a university recognized by the university 
Grants Commission with English as a major subject.
B.) Proficiency in English shown in recognized international or national 
level model court competitions (Moot court competitions)
15
12
15

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
894
sub No. Subject Marks highest 
Marks
singles
i. First Place/ Best skill – 12
ii. second place – 10
iii. third Place/ other Merits – 08
Groups
i. First Place/ Best skill – 10
ii. second place – 08
iii. third Place/ other Merits – 06
c.)  diploma in English from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or sLQF 3 or higher level diploma in English 
from another institution or an English course of at least 1500 study 
hours from a government training institute/an institute affiliated to a 
government training institute 
d.) At least a pass in English language in the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced) examination (local or London) or iELts total 
score of 6.5 or above, toEFL-iBt  79 or above, toEFL-cBt  213 or 
above or toEFL – PBt of 550 or higher
e.) An Advanced Certificate in English from a university recognized by 
the University Grants Commission or an SLQF Level 2 Certificate 
in English from another institute
Note: Marks will be awarded only to the highest qualification.
10
08
05
05 Skills shown in the interview
Applicant’s requirements to fulfil the role of the post:
•	 strength questions (02 Marks)
•	 situational questions (03 Marks)
•	 competency questions (10 Marks)
  Marks are awarded according to the answers given to the evaluation 
questions.
15
Total 100

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
895
7. Identity of Candidates
only candidates who have submitted complete applications in all respects will be called for the aptitude test 
interview.
Original copies of all certificates and duly attested copies by the applicant should be submitted at the time of 
interview.
The following identity documents are accepted to confirm your identity during the interview.
 (i) Valid National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid passports.
8. manner of submission of applications
 (i) applications must be submitted by registered post on or before 28.04.2024 to the address “conservator 
General of Forests, Department of Forest Conservation, Sampathpaya, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla”. 
Applications received after that date will be rejected.
 (ii) a  specimen of the application is given at the end of this notice. applicants should prepare their applications 
on an A4 size paper and prepare the first page numbered from 01 to 3.3, the second page numbered from 
3.4 to 8.0 and the third page numbered from 9.0 to 11.0 and complete it with his own handwriting.
 (iii) “Recruitment to the post of Legal Officer Grade III” should be mentioned in the upper left corner of the 
envelope containing the application.
 (iv) Candidate’s signature on the application form should be certified by a Principal of a Government School/ 
Justice of the Peace/ Commissioner of Oaths/ Advocate/ Notary Public/ Authorized Officer of Tri-Armed 
Forces or an officer holding a permanent post in the public service or provincial public service whose 
salary is Rs. 47,615/- or above.
 (v) Officials currently employed in the public service or provincial public service should submit their 
applications through head of the department where they are working.
 (vi) Applications not conforming to the format of the attached model application will be rejected without 
notice. No complaints about loss or delay of applications will be entertained.
9. Providing false information
if any information mentioned in the application form sent by you is found to be false or incorrect before the 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such false or incorrect information is discovered after recruitment, 
you will be dismissed subject to the relevant procedures.
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacancy.
11.  in the event of any discrepancy between the sinhala, t amil and English texts of this Gazette Notice, then the 
sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
896
12. the decisions taken by the Public service commission regarding matters not mentioned in this notice or in case of 
any problematic situation in this recruitment process will be the final decisions.
as per the rules of the Public service commission,
 secretary,
 Ministry of Wildlife and Forest Resources conservation.
on 28 of March 2024.
 
 
1 
 
mODEL APPLICATION  
 
Recruitment to  the post of Legal Officer Grade III in the Executive Service Category of  
the Department of for est Conservation  
 
 
 
 
(For office use only)  
 
(Write the number related to the medium you are applying for in the box)  
 
 sinhala - 2/ tamil - 3/English -4     
 
 
Note: - the medium applied cannot be changed  
 
 
1.01.1  Full name ( Mr/Ms): .......................................................................................................... 
(in sinhala/in tamil)  
......................................................................................................................................... 
 
1.2   Full name (in capital letters)  : .................................................................................... 
1.3   Name with  initials (Mr/Ms) : ........................................................................................ 
        Ex :- M.G.B.s.K. Gunawardana (in sinhala/in tamil):  
1.4   Name with initials (in capital letters): ........................................................................ 
 
2.0.        2.1 Permanent address:  ..................................................................................................... 
                   (in sinhala/tamil)  
              2.2 Permanent address: ...................................................................................................... 
                   (in capital letters)  
 
  3.0   3.1 Male/Female :  Male 0  Female 1               (Write the number in the box)  
        
               3.2.  M arital status:       Married -1                      (Write the number in the box)   
                                                 single      -2  
 
               3.3. 
.        
              3.4. age as on 31.03.2024 :                                  
                                       
     
               3.5. National identity card Number:  
 
 
               4.04.1 telephone Number: Permanent  
                                                           Mobile  
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
897
 
 
1  
 
mODEL APPLICATION  
 
Recruitment to  the post of Legal Officer Grade III in the Executive Service Category of  
the Department of for est Conservation  
 
 
 
(For office use only) 
 
(Write the number related to the medium you are applying for in the box) 
 
 sinhala- 2/ tamil- 3/English-4     
 
 
Note: - the medium applied cannot be changed 
 
 
1.01.1 Full name (Mr/Ms): ........................................................................................... ............... 
(in sinhala/in tamil) 
............................................................................................................................... .......... 
 
1.2   Full name (in capital letters) : .................................................................................... 
1.3   Name with initials (Mr/Ms) : ........................................................................................ 
        Ex :- M.G.B.s.K. Gunawardana (in sinhala/in tamil):  
1.4   Name with initials (in capital letters): ....................................... ................................. 
 
2.0.        2.1 Permanent address: ..................................................................................................... 
                   (in sinhala/tamil) 
              2.2 Permanent address:...................................................................................................... 
                   (in capital letters) 
 
  3.0   3.1 Male/Female :  Male 0  Female 1               (Write the number in the box) 
        
               3.2.  Marital status:      Married -1                     (Write the number in the box)  
                                                 single      -2  
 
               3.3. 
.        
              3.4. age as on 31.03.2024 :                                  
                                       
     
               3.5. National identity card Number:  
 
 
               4.04.1 telephone Number: Permanent  
                                                           Mobile 
 
 
Birthday:   year        Month    day   
years    Months    days   
            
          
          
 
 
2 
 
               5.0.   Educational Qualifications 
               5.1   degree                                       institution                          date 
 
                    .......................................         .............................          ................................... 
                    .......................................         ..............................         .................................... 
 
               6.0     date of taking oath as a Lawyer of the supreme court: ................................ 
         
               6.1   date of completion of 03 years experience after taking oath in supreme court: ...... ..... 
               6.2  date of completion of 03 years of experience in a legal position in a government institution:                   
 .................. 
             * certificates/documents proving the basic qualifications must be attested by the applicant himself and        
submitted along with the application. 
 
               7.0 details related to obtaining each qualification under No. 06 of the notification calling for applications:  
 
              7.1 additional educational qualifications: ...................................................................... 
        
              7.2 additional professional qualifications: ...................................................................... 
     
              7.3 Knowledge on information technology: .................................................................... 
       
              7.4 Language proficiency: ...............................................................................................  
 
      * documents proving additional qualifications need not be sent with the application, it is the applicant's 
responsibility to keep those documents ready for presentation during the interview.  
 
               8.0 have you ever been convicted by a court? yes / No (if ‘Yes’ describe) 
                     ................................................................................................................................................. 
                     ................................................................................................................... .............................. 
              9.0 applicant's attestation:  
 
             i hereby declare that the information i have mentioned in this application is true and correct, and if the 
statement i have made has found to be false i am aware that I am subjected to disqualified for the 
position before the appointment and subjected to dismissal from the position  after the appointment and 
i declare that i will obey all the rules. 
 
 
date: .....................                                                    .................................................           
                                                                                                   signature of the applicant  
 
 
            10.0 attestation of the applicant’s signature: 
    
                     i certify that Mr/Ms ....................................to whom this application is submitted is personally    known 
to me and that he/she signed his/her signature in front of me on  ............ 
 
 
...................................................... 
signature of the attesting officer  

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
898
 
 
3 
 
Full name:  
designation:  
date: 
 ( attest with official s eal)  
 
 
11.0 Recommendation of the head of department  (only for government servants)  
 
i certify that the information provided by Mr/Ms ........ ............................. who works at this institution 
is correct, his/her work and attendance are satisfactory , there is no allegation against him/her and if 
selected for this post, he/she can be released from the service of this institution.  
 
............................................... 
signature of head of department/institution  
 
Name     :   
designation:  
address:  
date: 
 (official seal)  
 
 
2 
 
               5.0.   Educational Qualifications 
               5.1   degree                                       institution                          date 
 
                    .......................................         .............................          ................................... 
                    .......................................         ..............................         .................................... 
 
               6.0     date of taking oath as a Lawyer  of the supreme court:  ................................ 
         
               6.1   date of completion of 03 years experience after taking oath in supreme court: ...... ..... 
               6.2  date of complet ion of 03 years of experience in a l egal position in a government institution:                   
 .................. 
             * certificates/documents proving the basic qualifications must be attested by the applicant himself and        
submitted along  with the application.  
 
               7.0 details related to obtaining each qualification under No. 06 of the notification calling for applications:  
 
              7.1 additional  educational qualifications:  ...................................................................... 
        
              7.2 additional professional qualifications:  ...................................................................... 
     
              7.3 Knowledge on information technology: .................................................................... 
       
              7.4 Language proficiency: ............................................................................................... 
 
      * documents proving additional qualifications need not be sent with the application, it is the applicant's 
responsibility to keep those documents ready for presentation during the interview.  
 
               8.0 have you ever been convicted by a court? yes / No  (if  ‘Yes’ describe) 
                     ................................................................................................................................................. 
                     ................................................................................................................................................. 
              9.0 applicant's attestation:  
 
             i hereby declare that the information i have mentioned in this application is true and correct, and if the 
statement i have made has found to be false i am aware that I am subjected to disqualified for the 
position before the appoint ment and subjected to dismissal from the position  after the appointment and 
i  declare that i will obey all the rules. 
 
 
date: .....................                                                    .................................................           
                                                                                                   signature of the applicant  
 
 
            10.0 attestation of the applicant ’s signature:  
    
                     i certify that Mr/Ms ....................................to whom this application is submitted is personally    known 
to me and that he/she signed his/her sign ature in front of me on  ............ 
 
 
...................................................... 
signature of the attesting officer  
03-481

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
899
mINISTR y Of AGRICuLTuRE  AND PLANTATION  INDuSTRIES
CONTRACTuAL   RECRuITmENTS
National Institute of Plantation management
Applications are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans for the following contractual post of this institute.
Post of Assistant Director (marketing, business Promotion and Planning) - mm 1.1 (Grade II)
Job Description :  Planning and managing of promotion campaigns of training programmes/ courses and other services, 
Initiating market research studies and analyzes the job market to understand customer and market 
opportunities of the industry, assisting to the management to develop appropriate programmes/ 
courses in identifying the contemporary needs of the sectors, communicating the training programs/ 
courses or services to the prospective clients maintaining professional competence among stakeholders 
attending professional meetings, educational conferences, and counselor training workshops, in order 
to maintain and improve professional competence, analyzing & developing business plans, marketing 
plans including strategic & corporate plans, project plans, forecasts, budgets, financial & timeline 
statements and prioritize demand driven programmes to achieve the sales and marketing objectives on 
a consistent basis, conduct academic and training impact assessments, Prepare Prospectus, action plan, 
t raining Budget, Performance review report and training components for the annual report, Liaising 
with divisional academic staff of the Institute, and external organizations with related to the professional 
membership & other academic allied activities of the institute.
Qualifications  : a  degree in Marketing Management/ Business Management/ Business administration/ commerce 
or any other relevant degree which is recognized by the u.G.c. with a minimum of  one (01) year 
post qualifying experience in managerial category in a state corporation/ Board or reputed Mercantile 
Establishment.
Salary scale  : salary entitlement is Rs. 53,175/- and other Government approved allowances.
Age Limit : should not be less than 22 years and not more than 45 years
method of  : Written competitive examination and / or a structured interview conducted by a  
Selection  professional interview panel.
General   : Applicants for all the above posts should be fluent in English and have exposure to commonly used 
computer applications.
  the applicants who will be selected to the relevant posts of the institute should be physically and 
mentally fit to work and he/she is liable to work in the head office of the institute or anywhere in the 
country.
Other benefits
•	 The institute’s contribution to EPf  and ETf  will be 12% and 3%, respectively of basic salary.
(The employee’s contribution to the EPf  will be 10%, of their basic salary)
•	 free transport from and to the nearest town (kottawa/ kaduwela)
how to apply
Please forward your detailed curriculum Vitae with the names and addresses of two non-related referees, together with 
copies of relevant certificates, to the undersigned to reach or before 10
th  April 2024 under registered cover. applications 
from employees in the public sector should be forwarded through the respective heads of institutions. the post applied 
for, should be marked on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. the incompleted and delayed applications will not be 
considered under any circumstances.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'03'28
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2024
900
N.B :
•	 only short listed applicants will be called for the interview.
•	 this vacancy advertisement is displayed in the www.nipm.gov.lk website also.
Director/ Chief Executive Officer,
National institute of Plantation Management,
M. d. h. Jayawardema Mawatha, athurugiriya.
tel : 011-2770232
03-493
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
Amendment
Excise  Department  of  Sri Lanka
oPEN  coMPEtitiVE   EXaMiNatioN   FoR  REcRuitMENt  to  thE   Post  oF   EXcisE  
GuaRd  dRiVER  - 2023
thE deadline for accepting applications, as mentioned in the Application Calling Notification published in the Gazette 
No. 2373 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 22.02.2024 for filling 15 vacancies prevailing in the post 
of Excise Guard driver of the Excise department of sri Lanka, is extended by two weeks from 28.03.2024 to 17.04.2024.
02. Accordingly, the Applicants who have met the qualifications as at 17.04.2024 in terms of the said Gazette Notification 
are able to apply for the aforementioned examination. 
 M. J. Gunasiri,
 Excise commissioner General,
28th March, 2024.
03-464
PRiNtEd  at  thE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  sRi  LaNKa.