

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2021
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2008
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"129 – 2019 cqks ui 21 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'06'21
No. 2,129  –  fRiday ,  JuNE 21, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th July, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th June, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2005 - B 81534- 5,403 (06/2019)
Note.–    (i) code of criminal Procedure (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 14, 2019.
 (ii) Higher Education (Quality assurance and accreditation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 14, 2019.
N. B.–    the list of Jurors of Polonnaruwa district Jurisdiction areas in year 2019 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala 
and tamil languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2006
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2007
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2008
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  POLICE
Sub Inspector of Police (Nursing Officer) 
Woman Sub Inspector of Police (Nursing Officer) of 
Support Services
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
for the Posts of Probationary Sub inspector of Police 
(Nursing Officer) and Probationary Woman Sub Inspector 
of Police (Nursing Officer) in Support Services of Sri Lanka 
Police.
02. applications duly prepared according to the specimen 
application form given below should be forwarded to 
the address, director/ Recruitment, Police Recruitment 
division, No. 375. first floor, Sri Sambuddhathva Jayanthi 
Mawatha, colombo 06. the post you are applying for should 
be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope in which 
your application is enclosed and it should be forwarded 
by registered post to reach the above address on or before 
22.08.2019. Late applications will not be considered and 
applications will not be issued by Sri Lanka Police.
03. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 32,790 - 7x370 - 2x495 - 25x660 
- Rs. 52,870.00.
Payments have been made since 01.01.2016 as per the ii 
Schedule of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016. 
these salary scales will be fully effective from 01.01.2020.
Further, these officers are entitled to the allowances 
granted under the inspector General's circular dated 
07.01.2013 bearing No. 2416/2013. they will receive the 
following allowances on a monthly basis in addition to the 
salary scale mentioned above.
 (a) cost of living allowance Rs. 7800.00
 (b) 40% allowance entitled to the  Rs. 11,760.80
  basic salary as per Pub. admin. 
  circular 03/2016 
 (c) uniform allowance Rs. 250.00
 (d) arduous duty allowance Rs. 2000.00
 (e) combined allowance Rs. 12,000.00
    (Maximum)
   (areas for which a special allowance is paid)
    Rs. 11,200 
    (Maximum)
(areas for which a special allowance is not paid)
In addition to these allowances :
 (i) free transport facility,
 (ii) Free medical facilities for officers  (Financial 
support can be obtained even for getting medical 
treatment abroad),
 (iii) free medical facilities even for the members of 
the family,
 (iv) all the uniforms will be provided free of charge,
 (v) facilities to enhance one's sports skills and inborn 
talents,
 (vi) t ravelling expenses for duties outside workplace 
and financial rewards for exceptional performance 
and arduous service,
 (vii) opportunities to follow merit-based local and 
foreign courses of studies.
 
04. Basic Qualifications Required :
Age Limit :
 (a) the applicant must be aged between 18 
- 30 years at the time of the closing date 
of the application as per the Gazette 
notification. However, on limited basis 
recruitment of police officers in police service 
at present, the maximum age limit is 35 years.
 (b) Educational Qualifications :
•  Having passed 06 subjects with 04 credit 
passes for Sinhala/t amil, Mathematics 
Science and English at G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination in one and the same sitting.
 and
•  Having passed 03 subjects (in one of 
the streams of Biology, agriculture and 
Mathematics) at G. c. E. (a/L) examination 
in one and the same sitting.
Note: 01.  According to the subject classification 
of the department of Examinations; two 
Science Subjects bearing No. 41 and 44 
are considered as a single subject and two 
Mathematics Subjects bearing No. 42 and 
45 are also considered as a single subject 
when determining the number of subjects 
passed at the examination.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2009
 02. despite having passed the practical test of 
the technological Studies at G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination, failing in the written test of 
the same subject is considered as having 
failed the said subject.
 03. Since the subjects, optional tamil, English 
and Sinhala are not included in G. c. E. 
(o/L) subject stream, having passed those 
subjects is not considered as one of the sub-
jects passed at G. c. E. (o/L) examination.
 (c) Professional Qualifications :
•  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka 
Medical council after obtaining the Nursing 
degree from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission, Sri Lanka.
 or
•  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
Council and having obtained a Certificate of 
diploma after following a Nursing training 
course of 03 years in a training School of 
the Ministry of Health.
Note:- Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are to be selected for a 
nursing training after getting recruited through 
educational qualifications of G. C. E. (A/L) and 
G. c. E. (o/L).
 (d) experience :
• Should have experience for a period not 
less than 06 months in the relevant field 
obtained from Ministry of Health or from 
an institution registered in the Ministry of 
Health.
 (e) Physical Requirements :
Male
 • Height should not be less than 05 feet and 
06 inches.
 • Chest should not be less than 32 inches 
(during expiration).
female
 • Height should not be less than 05 feet and 
04 inches.
Note:- With regard to the applicants with special 
qualifications and skills, these height and chest 
measurements are subject to deviate from the 
above at the discretion of the inspector General 
of Police.
 (f) Vision Requirements.– Vision of one eye should 
not be less than 6/12. if the vision of one eye 
is 6/6 and 6/18 of the other eye that is also 
acceptable. colour vision should be normal.
 
 (g) Other Qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) applicants should have maintained an 
excellent character which is expected by the 
Sri Lanka Police.
 (iii) Should be bachelors / spinsters (divorcees 
and widows/widowers are not qualified to 
apply) this is not applicable for those who 
are already in Police service or nursing 
service.
 (iv) Should be prepared to work anywhere in 
the country.
 (v) Should not have undergone body 
modifications (eg:- tattoos)
 (vi) Qualifications mentioned in the application 
from 4(a) to 4(g) which are required for 
the post are expected to be fully acquired 
by the date mentioned in the notice inviting 
applications / Gazette notification.
 (h) Physical Requirements.– all the applicants 
should be physically and mentally fit to 
discharge the duties of the post and to work 
anywhere within Sri Lanka.
05. Method of Recruitment :- 
 5.1  Preliminary interview: -
  only the applicants who have gained the basic 
qualifications will be called for the preliminary 
interview. During the interview, qualifications 
from 4(a) to 4(g) mentioned above will be 
checked.
 5.2  Physical fitness test -
  Physical fitness of the applicants will be tested 
by a board of officers appointed by the Inspector 
General of Police.
 5.3 only the applicants who get through this test 
will be qualified to face the structured interview.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2010
 5.4 Structured interview (applicants with professional qualifications/to be recruited to reserve police service)
  During the structured interview, qualifications will also be examined.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum 
Mark
Cut-Off Mark 
for Selection
01. Professional Qualifications :
Having obtained full registration from the Sri Lanka Medical council 
after getting a nursing degree approved by the university Grants 
commission or a Nursing diploma from a Nursing School recognized 
by the Ministry of Health
40 Not applicable
02. Service Experience :
Service experience from a health institution recognized by the Ministry 
of Health (maximum 20 marks with 04 marks for each year)
20
03. Language  proficiency /computer literacy /other 10
04.  Sports skills 10
05. Leadership/community Services 10
06. Evaluation of the interview board 10
Total 100 40%
 5.5  Structured interview (for recruiting applicants who have not gained professional qualifications)
  During the structured interview, qualifications will also be examined.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum
Mark
Cut-off Mark for Selection
01. Language
Proficiency/Computer Literacy/other
30
Not applicable02. Sport Skills 30
03. Leadership/community Services 30
04. Evaluation of the interview board 10
Total 100 40%  
 5.6 authority appointing the structured interview board: -
  Appointing authority or the officer authorized by the appointing authority
 5.7 Only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be qualified to face the structured interview. 
only the applicants who score 40% or above at the structured interview will be called for the written examination.
 5.8 Written Examination (Not applicable for officers who are recruited to Police reserve service)
Subjects Maximum marks Qualified marks
01. Comprehension and language proficiency 100 40%
02.i.Q. test 100 40%
03. General knowledge related to health sector 100 40%

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2011
 5.4 Structured interview (applicants with professional qualifications/to be recruited to reserve police service)
  During the structured interview, qualifications will also be examined.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum 
Mark
Cut-Off Mark 
for Selection
01. Professional Qualifications :
Having obtained full registration from the Sri Lanka Medical council 
after getting a nursing degree approved by the university Grants 
commission or a Nursing diploma from a Nursing School recognized 
by the Ministry of Health
40 Not applicable
02. Service Experience :
Service experience from a health institution recognized by the Ministry 
of Health (maximum 20 marks with 04 marks for each year)
20
03. Language  proficiency /computer literacy /other 10
04.  Sports skills 10
05. Leadership/community Services 10
06. Evaluation of the interview board 10
Total 100 40%
 5.5  Structured interview (for recruiting applicants who have not gained professional qualifications)
  During the structured interview, qualifications will also be examined.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum
Mark
Cut-off Mark for Selection
01. Language
Proficiency/Computer Literacy/other
30
Not applicable02. Sport Skills 30
03. Leadership/community Services 30
04. Evaluation of the interview board 10
Total 100 40%  
 5.6 authority appointing the structured interview board: -
  Appointing authority or the officer authorized by the appointing authority
 5.7 Only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be qualified to face the structured interview. 
only the applicants who score 40% or above at the structured interview will be called for the written examination.
 5.8 Written Examination (Not applicable for officers who are recruited to Police reserve service)
Subjects Maximum marks Qualified marks
01. Comprehension and language proficiency 100 40%
02.i.Q. test 100 40%
03. General knowledge related to health sector 100 40%
 5.9 Authority Holding the examination : -
  authority Holding the Examination or the 
officer authorized by the Authority Holding the 
Examination.
 5.10 t otal marks of the applicants will be calculated 
by adding the marks obtained from the 
Structured interview and the marks obtained 
from the Written Examination.
 5.11 Recruitment is made based on a merit list 
of total marks scored depending on the 
number of vacancies available on the last date 
of calling applications.
06. Background Check :
 6.1 a  background check will be conducted to 
make sure that the applicants who have 
been qualified to recruit as mentioned under 
above 5.11 paragraph have maintained a good 
character.
 Note : there  should not be any criminal reports re-
garding the applicant's next of kin. applicant's 
mother, father, guardians, siblings and if the 
siblings are married, their spouses are also con-
sidered as next of kin.
 6.2 Background checks will also be carried out 
on the applicant, on his/her next of kin and on 
his/her close companions and applicants with 
negative background check reports will not be 
recruited.
 6.3 Providing false information during recruitment 
by applicants will result in disqualification. 
if it is revealed, after recruitment, that false 
information had been provided, service will be 
terminated at any time.
 6.4 the applicants to be recruited according to the 
merit list will not be called for Medical test 
until background reports of the applicants are 
received.
07.  Medical Test.– the applicants who have been 
selected for the medical test should pass the medical test 
conducted by the Chief Medical Officer of Police Hospital. 
in addition, a test will be performed on the applicants to 
check whether they are physically and mentally fit for the 
duties in the police hospital. the medical test reports should 
be presented by Chief Medical Officer under health 169 
form. an applicant can take the medical test only once.
08. Training :
 8.1 Direct Recruitment : -
  only the applicants who have passed the 
background check and the medical test will be 
called for a 12-week training on a date specified 
by the inspector General of Police.
 8.2 Candidates who are not professionally qualified 
will be sent to follow the three- year professional 
training conducted for this profession by the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition & indigenous 
Medicine after their basic training.
 8.3 Confirmation of appointments of officers who 
do not successfully complete full time three-
year professional training in the Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition & indigenous Medicine will be 
suspended until the successful completion of the 
professional training. in addition, appointments 
of officers who do not successfully complete 
the training or who are unable to get through 
the final examination within all three attempts 
given will be cancelled.
09. Service Conditions :
 1.  The probationary officers directly recruited 
with or without professional qualifications, 
should serve a probation period/apprenticeship 
of three years and officers recruited on limited 
basis should complete one year acting period. 
(Not applicable for officers recruited for 
Reserve Police Service). if getting married 
during probation period, a special permission 
should be obtained from inspector General of 
Police.
 2.  Confirmation of the probationary officers 
directly recruited on the basis of advanced 
Level results and officers recruited on limited 
basis will be suspended until they successfully 
complete the professional training. if the 
officers recruited on limited basis will not 
be able to complete professional training 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2012
successfully, . their ranks will be reverted to the previous ranks on timely basis. (Not applicable for officers 
recruited for Reserve Police Service).
 ‘  3.  the selected applicants shall act in conformity with any orders or circulars already made or may hereafter 
be made to implement the Official Language Policy. (Not applicable for officers recruited for Reserve Police 
Service).
 4. Should abide by the provisions of Establishment code, financial Regulations, circulars of National Police 
commission, circulars of Public Service commission, Public administration circulars, treasury circulars, 
orders, i. G. P. circulars, Hand Books and instruction codes and provisions thereof.
 5. Directly recruited officers on G. C. E. Advanced Level results and the officers recruited on limited basis should 
serve a compulsory service period of 15 years in Sri Lanka Police after completion of Nursing training and from 
the date of receiving the nursing certificate and the registration of Sri Lanka Medical Council. (Not applicable 
for officers recruited for Reserve Police Service).
 6. they should sign a bond giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses, should there be any that had 
been spent for his/her training and other expenses including uniforms at the time he/she is handing over the 
resignation letter in the event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his/her 
compulsory service period. Measures will be taken as per the provisions of Establishment code and Procedural 
Rules of Public Service Commission in relation to the resignation. (Not applicable for officers recruited for 
Reserve Police Service).
 7. Officers of direct recruitment should be free from all the loans and loan commitments prior to taking up the 
appointment. (Not applicable for officers recruited for Reserve Police Service).
 8. Probationary Sub Inspectors of Police (Support Services) / Women Sub Inspectors of Police (Support Services) 
should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with Police Code of Conduct as per the 
constitution of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and together with inspector General of Police 
circular No. 1693/2003 and 1804/2004 as soon as they start the training.
10. Efficiency Bars :
The type of Efficiency 
Bar Prescribed period for passing the Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency Bar
Written examination/ Professional 
Examination/ Certificate Course/ Other
First Efficiency Bar
Examination 
(Confirmation of 
Service)
Before completion of 03 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Sub inspector of Police 
(Support Services)
Oral, Written and Practical  
Second
Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 07 years after getting 
appointed to the post of Sub inspector of Police 
(Support Services)
Oral, Written and Practical
Third Efficiency Bar
Examination
Before completion of 05 years after getting 
appointed to the post of inspector of Police 
(Support Services)
Oral, Written and Practical 
 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2013
11. Language Proficiency :
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official 
Language
Officers recruited through a medium 
that is not an official language should 
obtain the proficiency for the relevant 
official language as per the Public 
administration circular No.
01/2014 and other related circulars
Other Official 
Language
Should obtain the relevant level 
of proficiency as per the Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 
and other related circulars
Link Language Not applicable
12. applicants should send the copies of the following 
documents attached to their applications. (original 
documents should not be submitted)
 (a) Birth Certificate,
 (b) Recently obtained two character certificates 
(from non-related persons),
 (c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications,
 (d) Certificates on sports with special records 
or certificates obtained for extracurricular 
activities,
 (e) Certificate for Experience of Service (only if 
available),
 (f) National identity card.
13.
 13.1 applicants who are already in the public service 
should forward their applications through 
the relevant Heads of department. those 
applications should accompany a certificate 
indicating that the applicant can be released if 
selected.
 13.2 applications should be completed in applicant's 
own handwriting on 11” x 8" papers and should 
be sent along with the relevant copies of the 
certificates to the address mentioned in the 
'paragraph 02'. under any circumstances, the 
application should not be handed over personally 
to any officer.
14 applications that do not conform to the requirements 
of this notification, will be rejected. Replies will not be sent 
to such applicants in that regard.
Note: travelling or any other expense will not be paid 
to the applicants who are called for interviews and exam -
inations.
 c. d. 
Wickramaratne,
 Act. inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
colombo - 01
For office use only
SRi LaNka PoLicE
Specimen application Form For the poSt oF Sub inSpector 
oF police (nurSing oFFicer) and Woman Sub inSpector oF 
police (nurSing oFFicer) oF Support ServiceS
01.  (a) Name in full :–––––––––––––.
   (in clear and legible handwritng) Should be exactly  
  as mentioned in the birth certificate 
  (b) Name (with initials) :–––––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied :–––––––––––––.
02. National identity card Number :––––––––––––. 
 (a copy of Nic should be attached)
03. father's full name :–––––––––––––. 
04. Place of birth of the applicant :–––––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat of the relevant birth place :                 
–––––––––––––.
 Province :–––––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :–––––––––––––.
  (b) Relevant Police Station of present address :                
–––––––––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
  (d) Relevant Police Station of permanent address :
   –––––––––––––. 
  (e)  Grama Niladhari division of relevant permanent  
address :–––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
  (f) Mailing  address :–––––––––––––. 
  (g) t elephone No. :
   Home :–––––––––––––.
   Mobile  :–––––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :–––––––––––––.
  (b) Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by descent 
or by registration :–––––––––––––.
   (If by registration, kindly produce that certificate.)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2014
  (c) if you became a citizen by descent, mention the 
birthplace of,
   applicant  :–––––––––––––. 
   applicant's father :–––––––––––––. 
   applicant's paternal grandfather :–––––––––––.
   applicant's paternal great grandfather  :–––––––.
07. date of Birth  :–––––––––––––.
 (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached.)
 age :–––––––––––––.
  (as at the closing date of this Gazette notification)
 y ears :––––––––.  Months :––––––––.  days :–––––––.
08. Height: -  feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest: - inches :–––––––––––––. 
09. Educational Qualification - (Should mention the 
examinations passed and the copies of the relevant 
certificates should be attached) :–––––––––––––.
10. Additional Qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––––––.
11. Marital Status :–––––––––––––.
12.  (a)  Present Employment :–––––––––––––.
  (b)  are you a member of the armed forces? :–––––––.
13. Do you possess special skills or qualifications? :–––––.
14) Names and addresses of two non-related referees :
 (a) .............................
 (b) .............................
15. Have you ever served in Sri Lanka Police? :––––––––.
 Post and Rank No. :–––––––––––––.
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the 
post  :–––––––––––––.
16)  (a)  are you currently serving in an armed force? if 
yes, the application should be forwarded through 
the Commanding Officer of the respective force 
:–––––––––––––.
  (b)  Have you ever served in armed forces? if yes, 
please attach a copy of the certificate of legal 
discharge :–––––––––––––. 
17.  (a)  are you attached to V olunteer armed forces? 
if yes, application should be forwarded through 
the Commanding Officer of the respective force 
:–––––––––––––.
  (b)  Have you been attached to V olunteer armed 
forces? if yes, please attach a copy of the 
certificate of legal discharge :–––––––––––––.
18) Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in 
connection with any offence? :–––––––––––––.
 Have you ever been accused of an offence or summoned 
or punished by a court? :–––––––––––––.
 (if yes, please provide the details) 
19) Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion 
or in connection with any offence? Has anyone ever 
been accused of an offence or summoned or punished 
by a court? :–––––––––––––.
 (if yes, please provide the details) 
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained 
herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in the 
Police Service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be 
terminated without any compensation.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
20) Certificate of the Head of the Department: (Only if 
relevant) :
i, hereby declare that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... 
forwarding this application is serving in the department /
corporation/Board of ............................ and that he/she can 
be released for the new post if he/she is selected for this 
post.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature and Stamp of the
  Head of the department.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
06–565

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2015
v ACANCIES fOR SRI LANkA REGuLAR/vOLuNTEER NAvAL fORCE DIRECT ENTRy 
OffICERS yEAR 2019
1. V ACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval Force for Male/ Female Officers.
2. Applications are invited from Male/Female candidates possessing the qualifications given below:-
(a) Executive branch (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Sub Lieutenant (Male)
 Educational Qualification  -  A General Degree in Science from recognized University in Sri 
Lanka
 age  -   Below 30 years
(b) Executive branch (volunteer Naval force)
 Rank -  acting Sub Lieutenant (Male/ female)
 Educational Qualification  -  A General Degree from recognized University in Sri Lanka
 age  -   Below 30 years
(c) marine Engineering branch (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Lieutenant (Male)
 Educational Qualification  -  Bsc in (Marin/Mechanical) or equivalent Degree from any (Local/
foreign) university which is recognized by university Grants 
commission of Sri Lanka.
 age  -   Below 32 years
(d)  Shipwright Engineering branch (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Lieutenant (Male)
 Educational Qualification  -  Bsc in (Mechanical/Production/Material Science) Engineering/
Naval architecture or equivalent degree from any (Local/foreign) 
university which is recognized by university Grants commission 
of Sri Lanka.
 age  -   Below 32 years
(e)  Auto mobile Engineering branch (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Lieutenant (Male)
 Educational Qualification  -  Bsc in (Automobile/Mechanical) Engineering or equivalent Degree 
from any (Local/foreign) university which is recognized by 
university Grants commission of Sri Lanka.
 age  -   Below 32 years
(f)  Dental branch (Regular Naval force)
 (1) Officer Cadet (Male/Female) 
  Educational Qualification - Following 1st year/2nd year BDS course.
  age - Between 18 to 22 years.
 (2) Midshipman (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - Completion of the 2nd year BDS Examination,
  age - Between 18 to 24 years.
 (3) Acting Sub Lieutenant (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - Completion of the final BDS part 1 (study in final year)
  age - Between 18 to 26 years.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2016
 (4) Sub Lieutenant (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - Completion of the final BDS part II
  age - Below 30 years.
 (5) Surgeon Lieutenant (Male/Female)
  Educational Qualification - BDS equivalent qualification with permanent registration at the Sri 
Lanka Medical council (SLMc)
  age - Below 35 years.
(g) Logistics (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Sub Lieutenant (Male/female)
 Educational Qualification  -  1. Special degree in Business administration, financial Management, 
commerce, accountancy, Business Economics, Estate Management 
and Valuation from a recognized university in Sri Lanka.
 age  -   Below 30 years
(h) band master (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Sub Lieutenant (Male/female)
 Educational Qualification  -  1. Special Degree in Music - University of the visual and performing 
arts Sri Lanka ;
     or
    2. degree in fine arts (music) university which is recognized by 
the university Grant commission ; 
     or
    3. ATCL/ALCM/ARAM/ARCM or Higher Qualification in 
Western Music.
     (Visharadh diploma in Music Bhathkande Music institute will 
be added Qualification)
 age  -   Below 30 years
(i) Information Technology (Regular Naval force)
 Rank -  Lieutenant (Male/ female)
 Educational Qualification  -  4 years Bsc Degree in Computer Science/Computer Engineering 
from a university which is approved by university Grant 
commission of Sri Lanka.
    Experience in Software development, Software Engineering.
    Hardware Engineering, cloud architecture, GiS, Remote Sensing 
computer forensic, Mobile app development etc., will be an 
added qualification.
 age  -   Below 32 years 
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment to the Sri Lanka 
Regular / V olunteer Naval force :
(a) Nationality -  Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) age  - Should be  as indicated for relevant branches as at  01st July 2019
(c) Height (Regular) - Male   - Should not be below 165cm (5' 6") 
   female  - Should not be below 160cm (5' 4")
 Height (V olunteer) - Male   - Should not be below 162.5cm (5' 5") 
   female  - Should not be below 157cm (5' 3")
(d) Weight (Regular/V olunteer) - Male  - Should not be below 52kg.
   female  - Should not be below 41kg.
(e) chest (Regular/V olunteer) - Male - Should not be below 81cm 
(f) color Vision  - Std ii (actual vision)
 (Regular/V olunteer)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2017
(g) Visual acuity - Left eye 6/6 and Right eye 6/6
 (Regular/V olunteer) - 6/6 to 6/12 without spectacles for Dental Officers and Students (corrected 
by spectacles to 6/6) 
(h) civil Status - Married/unmarried
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the aforesaid requirements of Para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On 
arrival for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, age, vision and 
weight are below the standards specified in the Gazette Notification will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a 
special skill or value to the service may be considered at the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy even though 
the candidate may not have the requisite height and age. 
6. Conditions of service :-
 (a) Candidate will be enlisted into the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer Naval Force as Male/ Female officers and 
will undergo a Basic training course. the duration of the course will depend on the branch for which the 
enlistment is made. 
 (b) Regular/V olunteer Naval Force Male/Female Officers will be required to undergo a training at any place in 
Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy in consultation with the Ministry 
of defence.
 (c) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any country of the world at any time.
 (d) During the period of training and thereafter, Regular/V olunteer Naval Force Male/ Female Officers will be 
subject to Naval Law.
 (e) In the event a Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/ female Officer voluntarily terminates his/ her candidature 
during the training, he/she will be required to refund to the Government of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Government of Sri Lanka on account of such regular/volunteer male/ female Officer.
 (f) If at any time during his/her course a Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/ female Officer is reported by the 
authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/ her control to qualify 
for a commission, he/ she will be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Navy all expenses in carry on his/ her 
training and will be required to enter into a bond to this effect with the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy 
acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
 (g) During the period of training, Regular/V olunteer Naval Force male/ female Officers will be provided with 
food and accommodation by the wardrooms of the Sri Lanka Navy.
 (h) Married male/ female Officers may be provided with married quarters if available. Recovery of rental will 
be as applicable to public servants.
7.  Official Language Requirements.– the selected candidates will be required to comply with regulations and 
articles already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Official Language Act, No. 
33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances.– the payments will be made with effect from 01.01.2019 as per the Management Services 
circular No. 03/2016.
Description Cadet 
Officer Midshipman Acting Sub 
Lieutenant
Sub 
Lieutenant Lieutenant
Basic Salary 29,031.00 29,361.00 37,569.00 42,679.00 49,861.00
cost of living 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00 7,800.00
uniform -  allowance 255.00 255.00 255.00 255.00 255.00
Hardline allowance  - - 600.00 600.00 600.00
additional allowance 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00 1,000.00
Special adjustment allowance 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00 3,000.00
total 41,086.00 41,416.00 50,224.00 55,334.00 62,516.00
for 2019 increment No No No 1,197.00 1,197.00

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2018
 (a) Ration Money Allowance will be given to male/female officers who are victualling out.
 (b) Qualification pay, where applicable, will be given up to a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month. 
 (c) Three sets of railway warrants per year will be issued (for male/female officer, spouse, children and 
dependents if applicable).
 (d) An additional set of railway warrants or imbursement of bus fare for Officers living in wardrooms to visit 
their homes once a month.
 (e) uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free of charge.
 (f) Medical facilities will be provided free of charge (for male/female officer, spouse, children and dependents 
if applicable)
 (g) Married male/female officers who do not occupy Government married quarters, will be entitled to a rent 
allowance of Rs. 1,600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00.
 (h) Dental male/female officers will be entitled to extra duty allowance and 1/20 allowance after the internship 
as approved by the Ministry of Health. 
 (i) Engineering officers will be entitled to a special alloance  approved by the Government.
9.  Instructions to Applicants :–
 (a) applications should be in the form of the specimen given below and  should be completed clearly in detail 
in the applicant’s own handwriting. Duly completed applications should be forwarded to Senior Staff Officer 
(Recruitments), Navy Headquarters, P.o. Box 593, colombo-01 under registered cover on or before 1200 
hrs on 01
st July 2019.the top left corner of the envelope containing the application should bear “direct 
Entry - Regular/V olunteer Male/Female Officers”. Applications received after the closing date and time and 
applications that do not comply with the requirements stipulated in the Gazette notification will not be 
entertained. further information please visit the website www.navy.lk or call 011-7195118/011-7195154.
 (b) candidates who are in Public Service/corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through the Heads of Departments/Corporations/ Boards/Civil Establishments with a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents in the interview or any other 
occasion and certified copies of the following documents when forwarding the applications :-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
 (2) Certificates of the educational /higher Educational/ professional educationl /Degree qualifications 
required for the branch applied for;
 (3) School leaving certificate/Character Certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladhari certificate (obtained within six months);
 (5) Certificates of professional/ technical  experience (if any) gained from a recognized institution;
 (6) Two recent character certificates. (From responsible person who knows the applicant for more than two 
years or the present employer) 
 (7) Certificates of sports activities, cadetting etc.
 (d) applications of ca ndidates who fail to produce the documents when requested will not be considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
 (f) The Sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for the loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
10. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
or dismissal when the false statement is revealed before the selection or after the selection, respectively. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2019
11. Selection Interviews :–
 (a) Candidates who fulfill the above requirements should undergo a preliminary medical test conducted by the 
Sri Lanka Navy. candidates so passed will be required to undergo a Physical Endurance test as mentioned 
below. candidates those who pass the Physical Endurance test shall have to appear in an interview as 
prescribed by the Commander of Sri Lanka Navy. The final selection will be made from the so selected 
candidates upon subjecting them to another interview before a Selection Board appointed by the Ministry 
of defence.
 (b) Requirements to pass the Physical Endurance test
Age Group 800M RUN CURL UP (2MN) PUSH UP (2MN)
18 – 24 Male 3.30 – 5.30 Minutes 19 or More 21 or More
18 – 24 female 4 – 6 Minutes 13 or More 05 or More
25 – 29 Male 4 – 6 Minutes 17 or More 20 or More
25 – 29 female 4.30 – 6.30 Minutes 12 or More 03 or More
30 – 34 Male 4.30 – 6.30 Minutes 15 or More 14 or More
30 – 34 female 5 – 7 Minutes 09 or More 02 or More
35 – 39 Male 5 – 7 Minutes 13 or More 12 or More
35 – 39 female 5.30 – 7.30 Minutes 06 or More 02 or More
 (c) only the candidates who successfully complete the Physical Endurance test will be called for the Preliminary 
interview on the same day and those who pass the preliminary interview will be called for the Second interview. the 
candidates selected from the second interview will be called for the final interview and the candidates who obtain the 
highest marks from the respective branches will be selected according to the vacancies available. 
 (d) candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing and by post, of the date, time and place of such 
interviews. travelling or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
 (e) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview, he/ she  should produce his/her National identity card 
issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 (f) Candidates likely to be qualified after the final interviews will be required to present themselves before a Sri Lanka 
Navy Medical Board.
 (g) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his/ her a testimonial. any form of canvassing 
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
 (h) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
 (i) candidates selected for dental Branch who are undergoing the university studies will be released to respective 
universities after enlistments necessary with full pay leave to complete their studies. in such event relevant candidates 
will be required to enter in to a bond to this effect with the commander of the Sri Lanka Navy acting as the representative 
of the Government of Sri Lanka. 
Note: this Gazette notification is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English. In the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 k k V P H 
de Silv a, WWV & 
 Bar, RWP, RSP, VSV , USP, ndu, 
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy
Naval Headquarters,
P.o. Box 593,
colombo 01. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2020
aPPLicatioN foR REGuLaR /VoLuNtEER MaLE/
fEMaLE officERS iN tHE SRi LaNka NaVy
 01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if registration, quote number and date 
of the certificate)
 02. Branch and Post applied for :–––––––––––.
 03. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
 04. National  identity card Number :–––––––––––.
 05. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 06. Postal address :–––––––––––.
 07, E-mail address  :–––––––––––.
 08. date of Birth :–––––––––––.
 09. age (as at 01st July 2019) :––––––––––.
  y ears :–––––––. Months :––––––––. days :––––––––.
 10. Height :–––––––––––. (cm.)
  chest :–––––––––––. (cm.)
  Weight :–––––––––––––. (Kg.) 
 11. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 12. district :–––––––––––.
 13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 14. Grama Niladhari division  :–––––––––––.
 15. telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 16. civil Status :–––––––––––.
 17. Gender :––––––––––.
 18. Schools attended :––––––––––.
 19. Particulars of School or university attended  : 
 Name of  Type of  Year of  Subjects
 the School/ examination examination passed 
 University   (including
    grading)
 G. c. E. (o/L)
 G. c. E. (a/L)
 other
 20. Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university (if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer Employment To       From
 21. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    Address 
 father 
 Mother 
 22. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 23. details of available achievements in sports. (Give 
details of competitions and sports terms participated in 
with dates and achievements reached :––––––––––––.
 24. other achievements at School /university or in outside 
organizations. (Give details with dates/ years etc.) :                 
–––––––––––.
 25. any previous service in the armed forces or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or Boy Scouts organization :–––––.
 26. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Navy 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give 
details and the outcome of such applications :–––––––.
 27. Have you had a conviction or received a suspended 
sentence by a civil or military court, if so give details 
:–––––––––––.
 28. if employed in a Government department or in the 
Public Sector /Board /corporation (including the central 
Bank, State Banks, universities, civil organizations 
controlled by the Government, companies etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 29. Particulars of testimonials : 
Name Designation Postal Address
 30. declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that afore said details given by 
me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will 
be adopted and the regulations which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in the  
Sri Lanka Navy published in the Gazette of the Government 
of Sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
06–769

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'21
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2019
2021
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.
amendment 
mINISTRy Of fOREIGN AffAIRS
Competitive Examination for filling vacancies in the Public management Assistants' Service Cadre in 
Sri Lanka missions Abroad - 2018(2019)
tHE 3.2.3 and 5.4 paragraphs of the Gazette Notification "Competitive Examination for Filling Vacancies in the Public 
Management assistatn's Service cadre in Sri Lanka Missions abroad - 2018(2019)" published in the Government Gazette 
No. 2123 dated 10.05.2019 in all three languages have been amended as follows :
3.2.3 those candidates who have obtained 40% marks or above in each paper with a total aggregate of 150 or above 
at the written examination will be eligible to be called for practical assessment and viva voce. However, in 
the event of the unavailability of a sufficient number of qualified candidates according to the above cut-off 
marks, the Secretary to the Ministry of foreign affairs reserves the right to decide the cut-off mark. the 
candidates must obtain minimum 40% marks (60x40% = 24) for the practical assessment and there is no 
minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce. 
5.4 applications should be forwarded by registered post to reach the "commissioner - General of Examinations, 
organization (institutional and foreign Examinations) branch, department of Examinations, P. o. Box 
1503, colombo" on or before 28th June, 2019 and should be marked "competitive Examination for Public 
Management assistants in Sri Lanka Missions abroad 2018 (2019)" on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope. 
 
ra vinatha aryaSinha, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of foreign affairs. 
Ministry of foreign affairs, 
Republic Building, 
colombo 01, 
21st of June, 2019.
06–944
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.