

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
wxl 2030$22 – 2017 wf.daia;= 02 jeks nodod – 2017'08'02
No. 2030/22 – WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 02, 2017
1A – G 025998– 23 (2017/08)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: id'.s$j;=/02/2017.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part and
the Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union , No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd day of March, 2017, regarding the Maintenance
and Support Staff is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
A. WIMALAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
17th July, 2017.
Collective Agreement No. 17 of 2017
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  – MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT STAFF
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of  Ceylon No. 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya
of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate, Staffs Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the Second Part, made and entered into on the
Twenty third day of March Two Thousand Seventeen Witnesseth as follows:-

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Maintenance and Support Staff  Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, whose names
are contained in Schedule I hereto and   hereinafter referred  to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, for
and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.
3. Unions and Employees Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter
referred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on
monthly contracts of  employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions . In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the
existence  of any other term or condition not contained herein , the same shall be resolved  by reference to the ‘disputes Committee’ to be
formed under the provisions of this agreement and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes  Act, if
the matter is not resolved before the  ‘disputes Committee’, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade Union action
on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration .– Subject to any provisions to the contrary , this Agreement shall be effective from 1st
October, 2016 and shall thereafter continue  in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September,  2019.
6. General Terms and Conditions.–
(i) The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the  1st March 2017 and shall be
deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect from the said date.
Accordingly no arrears shall be due in respect of any payment whatsoever relating to such revised terms for the period 1st
October 2016 up to 28th February 2017.
(ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
7. Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right
of the employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatis factory
performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not being
extended after the period of six months, the employee shall be deemed to be confirmed, notwithstanding there being no letter of confirmation.
During the period of probation or extended probation, the Employer and shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning reasons
therefor.
8. Attendance At Work.–  Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work on
every day other than a holiday due to him,  at the usual starting  time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for
work throughout the normal working hours.
9. Salaries.–
(1) The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st March 2017 shall be as
follows:
(i) With effect from 1st March 2017, the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement
shall be increased by 25% based on last drawn salary.
(ii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary scales applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
(iii) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound will to pay the
revised salaries in the month of March 2017.
10. Hours of work and Overtime.–   The decisions of the relevant Wages Board shall apply.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
3A
11. Leave.–
1. Employees presently enjoying 14 days annual leave shall continue to do so. Others will receive annual holidays in accordance
with the relevant Wages Board Decisions applicable to them.
2. ( i) Sick Leave- Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be granted
up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over, a Medical Certificate
from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered necessary, subject to the right of the
Employer to call for a Medical Certificate as aforementioned, where he deems it appropriate.
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which he
could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition, however, that
he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave, he shall be permitted to
continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.
3. Casual Leave- Employees, if they are presently enjoying same, shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days
casual leave with full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not
be carried over to the next year.
4. Employees shall be allowed Public Holidays to which they are entitled by the Decisions of the relevant Wages Board.
12. Gratuity.- Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
13. Age of Retirement.–
(i)  Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicable
to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
(ii)  However, an Employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,
conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “Unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act of
miscon duct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.
(iii)  An employer who dicides to retire an employee at the age of 55  years on grounds stated at (ii) above, shall give such
employee one year’s notice, in writing, or pay one year’s salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given and
the employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would have
otherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the fact
that notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.
14. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment. –
1. Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided, however, that such suspension
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
2. Punishment in excess of three day’s suspension, without pay, shall only be after a domestic inquiry.
15. Suspension pending Disciplinary Inquires .–
1. An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month, pending a disciplinary
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against
him. Such suspension shall be in writing.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
2. Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall
be on half pay.
3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending
inquries by the Police, by other public Authorities or Audit verifications.
16. Administrative Transfers.–
1. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to the
exigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one
month’s notice, in writting.
2. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of
children’s schooling or the spouse’s employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three month’s notice,
in writing.
3. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that
particular year.
4. The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to grade 01 in school also will be considered on a case by case
basis.
5. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his
retirement.
6. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2) (3) and (4) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the
Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
17. Annual Increments.–
1. Annual increments shall  be granted automatically on completion of year’s service. The increments will be awarded in
accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees
in the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he
shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
2. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the
employee has been notified, in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous,
whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
3. Revised annual increments shall be paid to all employees in employment from 1st March 2017.
18. Disciplinary Inquiries.–
1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal
or where, in the opinion of the employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs to be
avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay, he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for such
suspension within three days of the actual suspension.
2. An employee may also be suspended with  pay, pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the management
deems that such measure is necessary.
3. An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show - cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him
and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Where
necessary, the employee may request further time and the employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time depending on
the nature of the charges  but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.
4. If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and
where appropriate, he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory,the Employer
shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working
days from the date on which the explanation to the ‘Show-cause’ letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the
Employer from doing so.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
5A
5. An employee shall be permitted to have a union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be a
professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation, he shall inform the Superintendent of the
name  of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object
to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure of an
employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
6. The employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days
from the date on which the inquiry is concluded , unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the findings be
delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending
criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply, the accused
employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
7. Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
19. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Disputes.–
1. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any
of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
2. Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as
personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption
of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.
3. Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner-General of
Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
4. It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members shall not resort to any
form of Trade Union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
20. Disputes Resolution Committee.– It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolution committee’ comprising of 4 members each
representing the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and the Ceylon Estates Staff Union will be formed. Such committee will meet once in
three months to resolve any dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions of this
agreement, if required. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
21. Duty Leave.–
1. Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other Office Bearer of the parent Union will
be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
2. Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office-bearer of the Parent Union,
as specified in sub-clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.
3. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the parent Union shall be allowed twelve days’ duty leave in
any one year.
4. By arrangement with their respective employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed twelve
days in any one year.
5. By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two
Office bearers shall not exeed twelve days in any one year.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound by this Agreement more fully described in Schedule I to this Agree
ment undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees  in the situation of amalgamation/sub
leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such situations.
2. Electricity.–Free electricity would be grandted to members of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been
enjoying in the past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior staff - 140 units
Junior staff - 100 units
Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior staff - 170 units
Junior staff - 130 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in six months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.
Kerosene - The Employer shall provide 25 liters Kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions
without electricity.
3. Tea Allowance.– The Employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits
in those  catagories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
7A
Senior staff - 2 Kgs.
Junior staff - 1 1/2  Kgs.
The staff members could purchase, in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or
COP , whichever is lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992, would be entitled
to purchase a maximum of 3 kg. at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA, whichever is lower with effect from 1st June
2003.
4. Death Grant.–
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the Dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 75,000/- as funera l
expenses.
2. The Dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to three months’ salary within one
month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the Dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the Dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to three months’
salary within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme.–
1. The Employee contribution  to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers’ contribution shall be 10%.
2. A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fund
inclusive of the company’s contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment
from the estate.
INTERPRETATION
WORD                                                   MEANING
Union Means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Dispute Act.
Employer Means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week Means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Year Means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
In Witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March Two Thousand and Seventeen

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
9A
SCHEDULE  I
Agalawatte plantations PLC
Agarapatana Plantations Limited
Balangoda Plantations PLC
Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC
Elpitiya Plantations PLC
Elkaduwa Plantations Limited
Hapugastenne Plantations PLC
Horana Plantations PLC
Kahawatte Plantations PLC
Kegalle Plantations PLC
Kelani Valley Plantations PLC
Kotagala Plantations PLC
Madulsima Plantations PLC
Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC
Maskeliya Plantations PLC
Maturata Plantations Limited
Namunukula Plantations PLC
Pussellawa Plantations Limited
Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC
Udapussellawa Plantations PLC
Watawala Plantations PLC
SCHEDULE  II
MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT  STAFF  SALARY  RANGES
Lorry/ Tractor Driver/
Electrician/
Mechanic/
Motor Mechanic Rs. 22,950.00 - Rs.40,950.00
Annual Increment 450
Black Smith/
Carpenter/
Driver/
Mechanic/
Engine Driver/
Welder/
Car Driver etc. Rs. 22,800.00 - Rs.40,800.00
Annual Increment 450
08 – 609

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
My No.: id'.s$j;=/05/2017.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part and
the Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union , No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd day of March, 2017, regarding the Medical Staff
is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956).
A. WIMALAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
26th July, 2017.
Collective Agreement No. 20 of 2017
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  – MEDICAL  STAFF
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of  Ceylon of 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of
the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the Second Part, made and entered into o n the
Twenty third day of March Two Thousand Seventeen Witnesseth as follows:
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Medical Staff  Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, whose names
are contained in Schedule I hereto and   hereinafter referred  to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, for
and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.
3. Unions and Employees Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter
referred to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on
monthly contracts of  employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions . In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the
existence  of any other term or condition not contained herein , the same shall be resolved  by reference to the the ‘disputes Committee’ to
be formed under the provisons of this agreement and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes  Act,
if the matter is not resolved before the  ‘Disputes Committee’, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade Union
action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration .– Subject to any provisions to the contrary , this Agreement shall be effective from 1st
October, 2016 and shall thereafter continue  in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September,  2019.
6. General Terms and Conditions.–
(a) The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the  1st March 2017 and shall be
deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect from the said date.
Accordingly no arrears shall be due in respect of any payment whatsoever relating to such revised terms for the period 1st
October, 2016 up to 28th February, 2017.
(i) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
(ii) The following rules of grading shall apply to the specified grades:

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
11A
(a) A pharmacist shall be a person who has successfully obtained an acceptable qulification.
(b) A midwife (Grade  1) shall be a person with qulifications and training.
(b) All Registered Practitiones (RMPs), Estate Medical Assistants (EMAS) and Assistant Medical Practitioners (AMPs) with over  20
years experience shall be placed on the Medical Practitioners Grade.
(c) All Estate Medical Assistants (EMAs) and All/Assistant Medical Practitioners (AMPs) with less than  20 years service shall be
placed in the Estate Medical Practitioners Grade.
 7. Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right
of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatis factory
performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not
being extended after the period of 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter of
confirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notice or assigning
reasons therefore.
 8. First Appointment.– No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed the
G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in the
trade.
9. Attendance at Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work on
every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for
work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions.–
(i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shall
advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifications to
make them eligible.
(ii) Where an Employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, he will
not be required to serve a period of probation.
(iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicated to
him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and that which was last
paid to the holder of such senior position subject to a maximum of Rupees One Thousand Five Hundred. (Rs. 1,500/-) per
mensem.
(iv) Where the acting period, other than in over looking positions, continue for 6 months the employer shall prior to the expiry
of 6 months inform the employee in writing whether he is confirmed in the post or reverted to his substantive post.
11. Salaries.–
1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st March, 2017 shall be as
follows:
(i) With effect from 1st March, 2017 the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement shall
be increased by 25% based on last drawn salary.
(ii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary scales applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
(iii) In the case of W elfare Officer/Storekeeper who are presently entitled to an allowance on account of work as a Welfare
Officer/Stoekeeper, as the case may be such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowances at the rate of 12.5% of
the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are not performed or not deemed
necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.
(iv) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound will to pay
the revised salaries in the month of March 2017.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
2. (a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided to
them, shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and the
revised allowance will be as follows:
Child Development Officers, Orderly and
Ward Attendant - Rs. 1,122/- + 10% = Rs. 1,234/-
Midwife (Grade II), Welfare
Officer, Apprentice Pharmacist,
Midwife (Grade I) - Rs. 1,188/- + 10% = Rs. 1,306/-
Pharmacist/Junior Estate
Medical Assistant - Rs. 1,386/- + 10% = Rs. 1,525/-
Estate Medical Practitioner - Rs. 1,518/- + 10% = Rs. 1,670/-
Medical Practitioner - Rs. 1,584/- + 10% = Rs. 1,742/-
(b)   In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable to
disciplinary action.
12. Off Days.–
A medical staff  member shall be allowed one off day each week on which he will not be called upon to undertake routine
duties. He will, however, be required to deal with all urgent cases, which may arise.
13. Calls at Night or on off Days.–
(i) With  effect from the date hereof, an allowance of Rs. 175/- shall be paid to members of  the medical staff for calls in the Lines
between 6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m.  and Rs. 125/-  in respect of calls to the hospital, dispensary and maternity ward between
6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m.  In the case of a night call between 6.00 p.m. and 6.00 a.m. to the Hospital, Dispensary or Maternity
Ward, dealing with childbirth, the allowance payable shall be Rs. 400/-.
(ii) A call which has to be attended to in the Lines on a prescribed off day shall be treated as a night call and paid for at Rs. 175/-
per call .
(iii) ‘‘Calls’’ shall mean physical visits.
(iv) An Estate Medical Practitioner or Estate Medical Assistant overlooking work on another estate shall be paid an allowance
of Rs. 500/- in respect of each visit he is required to make to such other estate.
(v) Midwives shall be paid a uniform allowance of Rs. 3,000/- per year.
14. Holidays.– Employees will be entitled  to paid holidays on
February 4th – Independence Day
April 13th or 14th – Sinhala /Tamil New Year
May 1st – May Day
15. Leave.–
1. Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leave entitlement shall be on a
proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three
weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit this right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September, 1993.
2. (i) S
ICK LEA VE – Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be
granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over,
a medical certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or  a Government Hospital shall be considered
necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as  aforementioned, where he deems
it appropriate.
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which
he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition
however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
13A
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave he shall be permitted
to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.
3. CASUAL LEAVE – All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay,
not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the next
year.
4.  Five (5) days leave on full pay shall be allowed each year to each  employee on account of religious festivals in accordance
with the religious persuasions of such employee. Such leave may not, however, be taken in continuation with Casual leave.
16. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
17. Age of Retirement.–
(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retrial age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicable
to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,
conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act of
misconduct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.
(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall give such
employee one year's  notice in writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given and
the employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would have
otherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the fact
that notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.
18. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–
1. Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shall
not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
2. Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.
19. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries .–
1. An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary inquiry
when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Such
suspension shall be in writing.
2. Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall be
on half pay.
3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiries
by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit V erifications.
20. Administrative Transfers.–
1. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of aspouse, will, subject to the exigencies
of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one month's notice
in writing.
2. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of
children's schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three month's notice in
writing.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
3. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that particular
year.
4. The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 01 in School also will be considered on a case by case basis.
5. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his
retirement.
6. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2) (3) (4)   and above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the Management
shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
21.  Annual Increments.–
1. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year’s service. The increments will be awarded in accordance
with the practice prevailing on each estate.Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees, in the event of an
employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any
increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
2. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the employee has
been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppage would
be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
3. Revised annual increments shall be paid to all employees in employment from 1st March, 2017.
22. Disciplinary Inquiries .–
1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal or where,
in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs to be  avoided. Where
an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in a general manner of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days
of the actual suspension.
2. An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management deems
that such measure is necessary.
3. An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘ show cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against him and
the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation. Where
necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable amount of time depending on the
nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in exceptional circumstances.
4. If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and where
appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Employer shall hold a
disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30 working days from the date on
which the explanation to the ‘show cause’ letter is received, unless circumstances prevent the employer.
5. An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be a
professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of the name of
the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may object to the individual
selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another  representative the failure of an employee to be defended by
representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
6. The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working days from
the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the findings be delayed beyond
90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of a pending criminal investigation. If no
findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply. the accused employee shall be exonerated of
the charges.
7. Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee summarily.
 In such event the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for summary termination.In
such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
15A
23. V ariations of Terms and Conditions of Employment And Disputes.–
1. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any of the
terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
2. Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as personal,
but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consumption of electricity,
where a limit is fixed for all employees.
3. Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of Labour
under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
4. It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to any form
of Trade Union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
24. Disputes Resolution Committee.–
It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolution committee’ comprising of 4 members each representing the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon and the Ceylon Estates Staff Union will be formed. Such committee will meet once in three months to resolve
any dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions of this agreement, if
required. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice.
25. Duty  Leave.–
1. Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union will be
permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
2. where any disputes arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent Union, as
specified in sub clause (I) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.
3. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave in any one
year.
4. By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which
may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed twelve days in any
one year.
5. By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave which
may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Office bearers
shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement more fully described in Schedule I to this Agreement
undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/sub - leasing of
estates/divisions/factories prior to such situations.
2. Electricity.–
Free electricity would be granted to members of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior staff - 140 units
Junior staff - 100 units
Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior staff - 170 units
Junior staff - 130 units

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.
Kerosene - Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on
estates/ divisions without electricity.
3. Tea Allowance.–
The employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits in those categories
presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Senior staff - 2 Kgs.
Junior staff - 1
1/2 Kgs.
The staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP
whichever is lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitled to
purchase a maximum of 3 Kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June, 2003.
4. Death Grant.–
1. with effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of  Rs. 75, 000/-
as funeral expenses.
2. The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month upon
the  death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months' salary
within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme.–
1. The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers' contribution shall be 10%
2.  A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in the fund
inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her employment from
the estate.
INTERPRETATION
WORD                                                      MEANING
Union Means the Union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the industrial Dispute Act.
Employer Means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week Means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
year Means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
17A
In Witness whereof the parties afore said have hereunto set their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March Two Thousand and Seventeen

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
SCHEDULE I
Agalawatte Plantations PLC
Agarapatana Plantations Limited
Balangoda Plantations PLC
Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC
Elpitiya Plantations PLC
Elkaduwa Plantations Limited
Hapugastenne Plantations PLC
Horana Plantations PLC
Kahawatte Plantations PLC
Kegalle Plantations PLC
Kelani Valley Plantations PLC
Kotagala Plantations PLC
Madulsima Plantations PLC
Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC
Maskeliya Plantations PLC
Maturata Plantations Limited
Namunukula Plantations PLC
Pussellawa Plantations Limited
Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC
Udapussellawa Plantations PLC
Watawala Plantations PLC
SCHEDULE II
MEDICAL  STAFF  SALARY  RANGES
Child Development Officer/
Orderly Ward/
Attendant Rs. 22,750.00 - Rs. 40,750.00 450
Annual Increment
Apprentice Pharmacist/
Midwife Grade 1 & 2
Welfare Officer Rs. 23,400.00 - Rs. 42,400.00 475
Annual Increment
Pharmacist/
Junior Estate Medical Assistant Rs. 24,600.00 - Rs. 51,600.00 675
Annual Increment
Estate Medical Practitioner Rs. 25,850.00 - Rs. 67,850.00 1050
Annual Increment
Medical Practitioner Rs. 31,100.00 - Rs. 85,100.00 1350
Annual Increment
08 - 610

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
19A
My No.: id'.s$j;=/01/2017.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the one part and
the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union , No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the other part on 23rd day of March, 2017, regarding the Clerical Staff
is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956).
A. WIMALAWEERA,
Acting Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
14th July, 2017.
Collective Agreement No. 16 of 2017
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT  – CLERICAL STAFF
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT entered into between the Employers' Federation of  Ceylon of 385J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of
the First Part and the Ceylon Estates Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3 of the Second Part, made and entered into on the
Twenty third day of March Two Thousand Seventeen Witnesseth as follows:-
1. Title.– This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Clerical Staff  Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon, whose names
are contained in Schedule I hereto and   hereinafter referred  to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, for
and in respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in clause 3 hereof.
3. Union and Employees Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred
to as the Union, and members of the said Union who are employed by the members of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on monthly
contracts of  employment and in respect of whom salary ranges are prescribed in Schedule II hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements.– The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these
categories and shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions . In the event of there being any dispute with regard to the
existence  of any other term or condition not contained herein , the same shall be resolved  by reference to the  ‘disputes Committee’ to be
formed under the provisons of this agreement and thereafter Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes  Act, if the
matter is not resolved before the  ‘disputes committee’, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade Union action on
the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date of Operation and Duration .– Subject to any provisions to the contrary , this Agreement shall be effective from 1st
October, 2016 and shall thereafter continue  in force unless terminated by either party giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act subject to the condition that no party shall give notice to the other before 30th September,  2019.
6. General Terms and Conditions.–
(i) The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the  1st March 2017 and shall be
deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect from the said date.
Accordingly no arrears shall be due in respect of any payment whatsoever relating to such revised terms for the period 1st
October 2016 up to 28th February 2017.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
(ii) Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
(iii) Upon completion of 10 years of satisfactory service under the same employer, Junior Clerks shall be re-designated as
Clerks.
(iv) All Chief Clerks will be designated as Administrative Officers with effect from 01st March 2017.
 7. Probation.– On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right
of the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of unsatis factory
performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the event of the probationary period not
being extended after the period of 6 months, the employee shall be deemed to be confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter  of
confirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate without notic e or
assigning reasons therefor.
 8. First Appointment.– No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed the
G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have experience in the
trade.
9. Attendance at Work.– Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work on
every day other than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available for
work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions.–
(i) Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers shall
advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and qualifications to
make them eligible.
(ii) Where an Employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, he will
not be required to serve a period of probation.
(iii) Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month, it should be communicated
to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of 50% of the difference between his salary and that which was
last paid to the holder of such senior position subject to a maximum of Rupees Two Thousand.  (Rs. 2,000/-) per mensem.
(iv) Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 months and during that period the employer shall pay the employee 10% of
employees’ basic salary as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential benefits
such as  EPF and ETF.
11. Salaries.–
1. The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this agreement with effect from 1st March, 2017 shall be as
follows:
(i) With effect from 1st March, 2017 the salaries of all employees in employment as at the date of signing of this Agreement
shall be increased by 25% based on last drawn salary.
(ii) In the case of Stenographers/Clerks and Storekeepers/Clerks who are presently entitled to an allowance on account of
work as a  stenographere or Storekeeper, as the case may be,  such employee shall continue to receive his/her allowances
at the rate of 12.5% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional duties are not
performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this allowance.
(iii) In terms of the above salary revision, the salary revision applicable will accordingly be revised as per Schedule II of this
agreement.
(iv) Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound will to pay
the revised salaries in the month of March 2017.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
21A
2. ( a) With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided to
them, shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, and the
revised allowance will be as follows:
Junior Clerk - Rs. 1,122/- + 10% = Rs. 1,234.00/-
Clerk - Rs. 1,188/- +10% = Rs. 1,307.00/-
Senior Clerk - Rs.  1,386/- +10% = Rs. 1,525.00/-
Administrative Officer - Rs. 1,518/- + 10% = Rs. 1,670.00/-
Special Grade Administrative Officer - Rs. 1,584/- + 10% = Rs. 1,742.00/-
(b) In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable to
disciplinary action.
12. Overtime.–
If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Overtime work shall be remunerated at one and a half times the normal hourly rate.
13. Weekly, Statutory and Poya Holidays.–
An Employee will be entitled to holidays as provided for in the Shop and Office Employees Act. Payment for work on such
days shall be remunerated at the prescribed statutory rates.
14. Leave.–
1. Annual Leave and Casual Leave shall be granted as prescribed in the shop and Office Employees Act.  All employees with
more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be entitled to three weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit:
this right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 1st September, 1993.
2. (i) S
ICK LEA VE – Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will be
granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and over,
a medical certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or  a Government Hospital shall be considered neces-
sary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as  aforementioned, where he deems it
appropriate.
(ii) In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, which
he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the condition
however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.
(iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit a higher quantum of sick leave he/she shall be permitted
to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him/her.
3. C
ASUAL LEAVE – All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay,
not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not taken in any one year will not be carried over to the next
year.
15. Gratuity.– Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
16. Age of Retirement.–
(i) Unless the letter of appointment specifies a higher retiral age, the age of retirement shall be 60 years and will be applicable
to those who are in employment as at the date of signing this Agreement.
(ii) However, an employer may retire an employee at the age of 55 years, subject to unsatisfactory work performance,
conduct or state of health of the employee. For this purpose “unsatisfactory work performance” shall include any act of
misconduct in respect of which disciplinary action has been taken.
(iii) An employer who decides to retire an employee at the age of 55 years on grounds stated at (ii) above shall give such
employee one year's  notice in writing or pay one year's salary in lieu of such notice. Where such notice is not given and
the employee concerned is found guilty of misconduct during such one year period which misconduct would have
otherwise resulted in his retirement at 55 years, the employee shall be retired on reaching 55 years notwithstanding the fact
that notice has not been given or payment made in lieu.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
17. Suspension as a Measure of Punishment.–
1. Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension shall
not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
2. Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry.
18. Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries .–
1. An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary inquiry
when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct against him. Such
suspension shall be in writing.
2. Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in subclause (1) above for any period in excess of one month shall be
on half pay.
3. The provisions contained in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending inquiries
by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Verifications.
19. Administrative Transfers.–
1. Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of spouse, will, subject to the exigencies
of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with one month's notice
in writing.
2. Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of
children's schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three month's notice in
writing.
3. Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred in that
particular year.
4. The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 01 in School also will be considered on a case by case
basis.
5. No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year prior to his
retirement.
6. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3) and (4)  above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but the
Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
20. Annual Increments.–
1. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of an year's service. The increments will be awarded in
accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all employees, in
the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments are awarded, he shall
not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
2. An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the employee
has been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, whereas stoppage
would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
3. Revised annual increments shall be paid to all employees in employment from 1st March, 2017.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
23A
21. Diciplinary Inquiries .–
1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants dismissal
or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of business needs
to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in  a general manner of the reasons for
such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
2. An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management
deems that such measure is necessary.
3. An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged against
him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer or
explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable
amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in
exceptional circumstances.
4. If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges and
where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the Em-
ployer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 30
working days from the date on which the explanation to the 'show cause' letter is received, unless circumstances prevent
the employer from doing so.
5. An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not be
a professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent of
the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the Inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent may
object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The failure
of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
6. The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the
findings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case of
a pending criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not apply,
the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
7. Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification for
summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
22. V ariations of Terms and Conditions of Employment & Disputes.–
1. Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to any
of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
2. Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same as
personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the consump-
tion of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
3. Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreemet shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner General of
Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
4. It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not resort to
any form  of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
23. Disputes Resolution Committee.–
It is agreed by parties that a disputes resolution committee comprising of 4 members each representing the Employers’
Federation of Ceylon and the Ceylon Estate Staff Union will be formed. Such committee will meet once in three months
to resolve any dispute that may arise as set out in clause 4 above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions
of this agreement, if required. However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice.
24. Duty Leave.–
1. Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union will
be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
2. Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent Union,
as specified in sub clause (1) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between parties.
3. By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
in any one year.
4. By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the union shall be allowed twelve days duty
leave which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not exceed
twelve days in any one year.
5. By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman of the union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave
which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these
two office bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement morefully described in Schedule I to this Agreement
undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation / sub-leasing of
estates / divisions/factories prior to such situations.
2. Electricity.–
Free electricity would be granted to memebers of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in
the past.
Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff - 140 units
Junior Staff - 100 units
Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
Senior Staff - 170 units
                     Junior Staff - 130 units
Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each estate.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
25A
Kerosene – Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates / divisions without
electricity
3. Tea Allowance .–  The employer shall provide free tea, on the followig basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits
in those categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
Senior staff – 2 Kgs
Junior staff – 1 1/2 Kgs
The staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or COP
whichever is Lower.
Staff members who had been entitled to three or more Kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be entitled to
purchase a maximum of 3Kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect from 1st June, 2003.
4. Death Grant.–
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependants will be paid a sum of Rs. 75,000/- as funeral
expenses.
2. The dependants of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months salary within one month
upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependants hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependants will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months
salary within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme.–
1. The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers’ contribution shall be 10%.
2.      A staff member who is a member of the Staff Medical Aid Scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in
the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her
employement from the estate.
25. Interpretation.–
Word                                          Meaning
Union Means the union referred to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute  Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer  M eans a company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week  M eans the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Year  Means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender  A reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
In Witness whereof the parties afore said have hereunto set their hand at Colombo on this 23rd day of March Two Thousand and Seventeen

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'08'02
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.08.2017
27A
SCHEDULE I
Agalawatte Plantations PLC
Agarapatana Plantations Limited
Balangoda Plantations PLC
Bogawantalawa Tea Estates PLC
Elpitiya Plantations PLC
Elkaduwa Plantations Limited
Hapugastenne Plantations PLC
Horana Plantations PLC
Kahawatte Plantations PLC
Kegalle Plantations PLC
Kelani Velley Plantations PLC
Kotagala Plantations PLC
Madulsima Plantations PLC
Malwatte Valley Plantations PLC
Maskeliya Plantations PLC
Maturata Plantations Limited
Namunukula Plantations PLC
Pussellawa Plantations Limited
Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC
Udapussellawa Plantations PLC
Watawala Plantations PLC
SCHEDULE II
CLERICAL  STAFF   SALARY  RANGES
Junior Clerk Rs. 24,100.00 - Rs. 42,100.00
Annual Increment 450
Clerk Rs. 24,350.00 - Rs. 46,350.00
Annual Increment 550
Senior Clerk Rs. 24,600.00 - Rs. 51,600.00
Annual Increment 675
Administrative Officer Rs. 25,850.00 - Rs. 67,850.00
Annual Increment 1050
Special Grade Rs. 31,100.00 - Rs. 85,100.00
Administrative Officer Annual Increment 1350
08-611
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.