

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1783$39 - 2012 fkdjeïn¾ 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'11'09
No. 1783/39 - FRIDAY ,   NOVEMBER  09,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Council  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
NOTIFICATION  UNDER  SECTION  154  OF URBAN  COUNCIL  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER 255)  READ  WITH
SECTION  2  OF  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL (INCIDENTAL  PROVISIONS) ACT,   No.  12 OF  1989
UNDER the powers vested upon the Panadura Urban Council (Chapter 255) by subsection 157 (14a) read with Section 153 of
Urban Council Ordinance the By-law made by the said Urban Council mentioned below has been adopted by the Resolution,
tabled in the monthly meeting No. 4.1 held on 2011.11.29. It is hereby informed that, as per said Section 154 of Urban Council
Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with Section 2 of Provincial Council (Incidental Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, the said By-Law
has been approved by me, Prasanna Ranathunga, The Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, law and
Order, Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration, Power and Energy, Man Power and Employment,
Economic Promotion and Trade of the Western Province Provincial Council.
P
RASANNA RANATHUNGA,
The Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
 Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Power and Energy, Man Power and Employment, Economic Promotion
and Trade of the Western Province Provincial Council.
Chief Ministry (Western Province)
Sravasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07.
07th November, 2012.
Panadura Urban Council
BY-LAW ON PARKING OF THREE-WHEELERS
1. These By-laws may be cited as By-laws of the Panadura Urban Council relating to Parking of Three-wheelers.
2. These By-laws shall be enacted for the purpose of regulating, controlling parking of Three-wheelers.
3. (1) The Three-wheeler parks within the limits of the Urban Council and the Maximum Number of Three-wheelers
to be parked at each park shall be decided on a resolution passed by the Council and such decisions shall come into operation
from the date of publication of them in the Gazette or from a date specified therein.
(2) If the Council is of opinion that the Number of Parks and the Number of Three-wheelers to be parked therein,
decided under Section 3(1) above shall be amended, it may be done by a resolution passed by the Council and such
amendment shall come in to operation from the date of publication of them in the Gazette or from a date specified therein.
3 - PG 001434

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'09
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2012
2A
(3) The Council shall seek recommendations of the Committee consisting of the persons referred to in the Schedule
one in order to decide places of theThree-wheeler parks and to decide its rangers and the maximum number of Three-wheelers
that can be parked in each park or to amend such decisions.
(4) A board shall be fixed at each park in order to identify the places to park Three-wheelers in terms of the Section
3(1) above and the code number of the relevant park shall be displayed in the board.
The maximum number of Three-wheelers that can be parked shall be displayed in the board in terms of Section 3(2).
(5) The Three-wheelers shall be properly parked and the manner in which they are to be parked shall be marked by
an authorized officer of the Council with a white or yellow line of 4 inches in width.
4. It shall be legal to issue a license in the manner indicated in the Schedule Two of this By-law for parking Three-
wheeles by the Chairman and to impose charges and collect charges for such purpose by the Urban Council.
5. When issuing licenses for Three-wheelers for the purpose of parking in  a Three-wheeler park, priority shall be
given to the  Three-wheelers owned by the nearest residents.
6. (1) for the purpose of parking a Three-wheeler in the Three-wheeler park nearest to the permanent residence, a
license shall be obtained from the Urban Council making an application as per specimen application form mentioned in the
Schedule Three and the application form shall be obtained from on payment of Rs. 50/=.
(2) In case where the driver is the owner, the photo copies of the following documents of such person and in case
where the driver is a hired person, photocopies of such documents of both hired driver and the owner shall be accompanied
with the application. Such application shall be in the manner mentioned in the Schedule Three :—
(i) The National Identity Card and the Valid Driving License of the owner ;
(ii) Certificate of Registration of the Three-wheeler ;
(iii) The National Identity Card and the Valid License of the hired driver.
(3) A register shall be maintained in respect of Three-wheelers which have been obtained licenses issued by the
Council and when cancelled such license, it should be recorded with red ink.
(4) The Council may issue licenses monthly, quarterly or annually for the purpose of parking Three-wheelers.
(5) A photo copy of the valid license shall be displayed on the front glass of the Three-wheeler which can be seen
clearly.
(6) The right side of the Three-wheeler shall be blocked to prevent the passengers from getting into or getting out.
(7) The license shall be issued in the name of the registered owner of the Three-wheeler.
(8) The Three-wheeler owner shall renew the license two weeks before the expiry of such license.
(9) In terms of subsection 6(4) above license fee imposed on the monthly, quarterly or annually shall be decided by
the Council and such fee shall be charged with effect from the date when such decision is published in the Gazette or such
a date specified therein.
(10) In tems of By-law 4 Three-wheelers shall not be parked or entered into a Three-wheeler park unless the Three-
wheeler possesses a valid license issued by the Council.
(11) Notwithstanding the possession of a valid license issued, a Police Office or the Chariman or an Officer who has
been authorized  by him may order that a Three-wheeler be removed temporarily from the park, and this license shall not be
an obstruction to such order.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2012
7. Other vehicle shall not be entered or parked in a Three-wheeler park.
8. Neither Three-wheeler nor any other vehicle shall be parked in the manner of blocking the entrance and the exit of
the Three-wheeler Park.
9. No any other repairs shall be done in the Three-wheeler Park other than the repairs relating to removal of the
Three-wheeler.
10. No Three-wheeler shall be parked in any other place awaiting hires other than the relevant parking place for
which the license has been obtained.
11. These By-laws with regard to the Three-wheeler parking shall be enforced from 06:00 hours to 20:00 hours every
day of the week.
(1) Time indicated in By-law No. 11 above may be amended by a resolution passed on a need of the Council and
such amendment shall come into effect after publishing a notification in the Gazette.
12. At the time licensed Three-wheelers have been parked in an Three-wheeler park, the drivers shall not call and
allow outsiders to come into the park and loiter in the park.
13. No person shall use drugs or conduct immorality or commit any oppressive act in a Three-wheeler park and it is
a responsibility of the persons authorized to use the park, not to allow any person to commit such acts.
14. If there are any complaints from public regarding any misbehaving at Three-wheeler parks by any person who
possesses a license, the Council reserves the authority to inquire into those complaints and to cancel his license if found
guilty for the charges.
15. The driver or the owner of the Three-wheeler shall produce the original copy of the valid license on demand by
the Chairman or an Officer authorized for his purpose by him or a Police Officer.
16. Violation of any Provision stipulated in the By-laws in an offence and after being convicted by a competent court
shall be liable of a fine not exceeding a sum of Rupees Seven Hundred and Fifty (750/-). In an occasion of  repeating such
violation after being convicted by a competent court or after being handed over a written notice drawing the attention of the
offence of such violation by the Chairman or an Officer authorized for this purpose by him, shall be liable of an additional fine
not exceeding a sum of Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty (250/-) for each and every day of committing such offence repeatedly.
17. Notwithstanding anything mentioned contrary in these By-laws by a resolution passed by the Council, these
By-laws may be amended, repealed by enacting new By-laws or enact additional By-laws.
18. Interpretation —
“Council”  means, Panadura Urban Council ;
“Chairman” means, the Chairman of the Panadura Urban Council ;
“An Officer Authorized for the purpose” means, any Officer of the Urban Council who has been authorized by
the Chairman ;
“An authorized Officer who has been delegated by the Chairman for the purpose” means, any Officer hold a
permanent post of the Council who has been authorized by the Chairman in writing ;
“Limits” means, limits of Panadura Urban Council constituted under Section 2 in Chapter 225 of the Urban
Council Ordinance No. 61 of 1939 and published in the Government Gazette by the Minister of Local
Government, Housing and Construction on 10th of August, 1978;
“Three-wheeler” means, the Three-wheeler parked for hiring ;

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'09
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2012
4A
“Hired Driver” means, a person who drives the Three-wheeler either the owner or any other person employed
for driving by the owner of the Three-wheeler ;
“Parking Place” means, Three-wheeler Park determined on a resolution passed by the Panadura Urban
Council ;
“Specific Parking Place” means, a specific parking place for which a License has been issued by the Chairman
of the Panduara Urban Council ;
“Monthly” means, each month starting from 1st consisting 28, 30 or 31 days as applicable ;
“Quarterly” means successive three months starting from 1st of January up to 31st of December consisting of
the number of days as defined in “Monthly” ;
“Annually” means, a calender year starting from 1st of January and ending on 31st of December ;
“Police Officer” means, the same interpretation as defined under Section 104 in chapter 53 of the Police
Ordinance No. 16 of 1865 ;
“Other Vehicles” means, the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance ;
“Registered Owner” means, the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance ;
“Act of Nuisance” means, the same interpretation as defined in  the Nuisance Ordinance.
19. If there is an inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil texts of these By-laws, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
S
CHEDULE  ONE
By-law 3.3
The Road Committee to be appointed shall consist of the members mentioned below :-
1. The Chairman of the Committee shall be the Chairman of the Urban Council and the Secretary shall be the
Revenue Inspector of the Council ;
2. The Secretary and the Technical Officer of the Urban Council ;
3. The Executive Engineer of the Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him ;
4. The Chairman of the Provincial Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him ;
5. The Chairman of the Road Passenger Transport Authority, Kalutara or a representative nominated by him;
6. The Chairman of the Sri Lanka Transport Board or a representative nominated by him ;
7. The Officer in Charge of the Traffic in the Police Stations coming under the jurisdiction of the Council or a
representative from each station nominated by them ;
8. A representative from each Three-wheeler Drivers’ Union within the jurisdiction on the Council.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2012
Second Schedule
BY-lAW No. 4
Receipt No.: No:
          0000 0000
LICENCE  FOR  THE  THREE-WHEELER  PARK
Name :
Identification No. :
Fee :
Park :
Period of validity :
Date :
                        Chairman
          Urban Council Panadura
A circle with a diameter of 13cm. A sticker with yellow colour back ground consisting of Urban Council badge as
depicted in the diagram.
T
HIRD SCHEDULE
BY-lAW NO. 6.2
Application for a Licence for Three-wheeler Park
1. (i) Name of Applicant : ————.
(ii) Permanent Address : ————.
(iii) Assessment No. : ————.
(iv) Local Authority relating to Permanent Address : ————.
(v) National Identity Card No. : ————.
2. (i) Registration No.of the Three-wheeler : ————.


<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'11'09
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.11.2012
6A
(ii) State Whether the driver is the owner or the hired driver : ————.
(1) If the driver is the owner, valid driving Licence No. : ————.
(2) If he is a hired driver : ————.
(a) Name of the Driver : ————.
(b) Permanent Address : ————.
(c) N.I.D. No. : ————.
(d) Valid Driving Licence No. : ————.
3. Three-wheeler park for which the licence is applied.
4. Duration of the licence applied for a month/three month/a year.
I, declare that the above particulars furnished me are correct and I am aware that my licence for three-wheeler park
is liable to be cancelled without prior notice in case such particulars are found to be false and I agree to comply with the
provisions stipulated in the By-laws relating to the parking of three-wheelers imposed by the Urban Council.
......................................................... ...........................................................
Date Signature of Applicant.
I approve the grant of licence to Mr./Mrs. ..............................................................for parking the Three- wheeler
No. .....................................at ....................................... Three-wheeler park .......................................... for a period of ..............................
Date : ........................................................
C
HAIRMAN,
Urban Council,
Panadura.
11 - 923
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.