

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.02.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1952$40 - 2016 fmnrjdß ui 03 jeks nodod - 2016'02'03
No. 1952/40  - WEDNESDAY,  FEBRUARY  03,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
 PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No. IR/10/14/2011.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT  CHAPTER  131
THE award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom the
Industrial Dispute which has arisen between Mr. A. Gamage,
No. 88/20, Sri Bodhi Road, Gampaha of the one part and
Bank of Ceylon, No. 04, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha, Colombo
01 of the other part was referred by order dated 27.03.2013
made under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Dispute Act,
Chapter 131 (as amended) and published in the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Extraordinary No. 1807/26 dated 26.04.2013 for
Settlement by Arbitration is hereby published in terms of
Section 18(1) of the said Act.
M.D.C. A
MARATHUNGA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat, Colombo 05.
22nd January, 2016.
Ref  No.  :  IR/10/14/2011.
In  the  matter  of  an  Industrial  Dispute
Between
Mr. A. Gamage,
No. 88/20, Sri Bodhi Road,
Gampaha.
................Party of the First Part.
                             and
Bank of Ceylon,
No. 04, Bank of Ceylon Mawatha,
Colombo 01.
...........Party of the Second Part.
Award
The Honourable Minister of Labour and Labour Relations
Gamini Lokuge, do by this virtue of the powers vested in him
by Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131 of
the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (1956 Revised Edition),
as amended by Acts Nos. 14 of 1957, 4 of 1962 and 39 of
Case No. A/3509
1A—G  22986 - 18 (02/2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.02.2016
1968 (read with Industrial Dispute - Special Provisions) Act,
No. 37 of 1968 hereby appointed me as the Arbitrator by
his order dated 27th March, 2013 and referred the dispute
between the aforesaid parties for settlement by arbitration.
The statement of the matter in dispute between the aforesaid
parties is as follows :
“Whether Mr. A. Gamage who had served as Security
Guard of the Bank of Ceylon had been caused injustice by
not receiving the salary increments from year 2003 - 2008,
Bonus, Holiday Allowances, the salary revisions as per
Collective Agreement 2006 - 2008 and other entitlements,
and if so, to what relief he is entitled”.
Appearances  :
Party of the First Part  :
Mr. Srinath Perera, Attorney - at Law appears on behalf for
the Party of the First Part.
Party of the Second Part :
Mr. Adhil Khasim, Attorney - at Law appears on behalf for
the Party of the Second Part.
Mrs. Dayajini Peeris - Human Resources Officer
represented the Party of the Second Part.
Both Parties mentioned above, have submitted their
respective statements that has led to the disputes in terms
of Regulations 21 (1) and (2) of the Industrial Disputes
Regulations, 1958. Thereafter, I made every endeavor to
explore a possibility of an amicable settlement which proved
to be futile.
The party of the First Part A. Gamage the Workman
(hereinafter referred to as Gamage) commenced to lead his
sole evidence marking documents A-I to A-ll. Whereas the
Party of the Second Part (hereinafter referred to as the
Bank) adduced the evidence of one Kannangara Koralalagea
Indira Champa Kurnari Kannangara, Senior Manager and
concluded the case with documents marked R-I to R-16 .
Then they were given time to submit ‘Written Submissions’
returnable on 9th November, 2015.
A review of Written Submissions of both Parties as
well as the evaluation of evidence reveals the factual
background to this reference and the legal basis of the
several reliefs sought by Gamage to be relevant to this
Award is as follows :-
Gamage joined the Bank on 04.05.1981 from the
position of Security Guard to Junior Security Officer without
any blemish. However, on 21.05.1999 a Charge Sheet was
issued against him for acts of misconduct and found him
intoxicated during working hours and forcefully holding both
hands of a lady Security Officer and pushing her against the
wall and casting innuendoes which resulted in holding a
Domestic Inquiry and found him guilty and as a punishment
suspended a period of five (5) years increments with effect
from 12th November, 1999 and ending on 04th November,
2004 ( R-6).
Yet again he was Charge Sheeted for acts of
misconduct on 30th May, 2003 for picking up a Gold Chain
and keeping it in his possession without handing over the
same to a Superior Officer ( R-8). There ensued another
Domestic Inquiry and his services were terminated with effect
from 08.04.2003 by letter dated 16th June, 2004 ( R-9).
Apparently, he filed an Application on 01.09.2004 in
the Labour Tribunal Case No: 1/122/04 under Section 31 B (1)
of the Industrial Disputes Act, through his Trade Union,
Ceylon Bank Employee’ Union in a representative capacity
for reinstatement with Back Wages . Finally, the Learned
President delivered an Order dated 10.07.2009 (OA2) in favor
of the said Union to the tune of One Million Four Hundred
and Eighty-five Thousand Seven Hundred Sixty-six and Cents
eighty (Rs. 1,485,766. 80) based on the evidence led and
submitted thereof.
It is pertinent to note that the Learned President in his
Order (OA2) stated that, the Union failed to lead any evidence
of his (Gamage’s) salary increments and according to the
Respondent’s (R-27), the Applicant’s increment had been
suspended and as such he had to rely on the only document
(A-9) produced in the Labour Tribunal for the purpose of
calculating Back Wages and it was calculated on the basis
for a period of 5 years and 8 months and 10 days to which
period Gamage was out of employment following suspension
by the Respondent (the Bank), namely form 08.04.2003 to
18.12.2008 where he had reached the age of retirement of 55
years.
The Learned President has clearly determined that
termination of his services was unjust and unlawful and stated
in his order that, the due relief for Applicant was reinstatement
with Back Wages but, for the fact that he has reached his
retirement age by the time the order was pronounced on
10.07.2009.
Meantime, the Bank initiated an Appeal proceeding
against the order of the Learned President of the Labour

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.02.2016
Tribunal in the Provincial High Court Case No. HCALT 37/
2009.
Meantime, the Bank initiated an Appeal proceeding
against the order of the Learned President of the Labour
Tribunal in the Provincial High Court Case No. HCALT 37/
2009 (R-13(a))
After the pronouncement of Labour Tribunal’s Order
a new turn of events envisaged where, Gamage’s wife
B. Weerakoon Gamage on behalf of her husband appealed
by a letter dated 20.08.2009 ( A-9/ R-I0) making a humble
request to ‘withdraw the High Court proceedings for the
reason that, her husband Gamage had suffered two instances
of Myocardial Infarction one on 09.04.2009 and next on
11.08.2009. On humanitarian grounds the Bank by an
internal Memorandum to the General Manager dated
22.10.2009 ( R-16 and R-16 (a))  sought permission to
withdraw the High Court Appeal. The Bank in their
magnanimity had acceded to her plea and implemented and
honoured the Labour Tribunal Order of 10.07.2009.
The conduct of Gamage is not an open secret.
Moreover his character and nature of behavior was well
demonstrated, in that, no sooner the Bank withdrew the High
Court Appeal (R-13 (1)) on 25.11.2009 than by letter dated
30.03.2010 (A-3) addressed and forwarded to the Deputy
Manager of the Bank and thereafter, directed a letter
addressed to Commissioner of Labour dated 10.11.2010
(A-06(a)), followed. In fact this (A-06(a)) has culminated
in the above said reference for Arbitration.
The Learned President of the Labour Tribunal at page
10 of(OA 2) a specific and categorical stipulation had been
underscored “ without prejudice to any statutory
entitlements ’. This has created confusion in the mind of
the Administrative Officer namely the Commissioner when
he was labouring in terms of section 16 namely “ ... shall be
accompanied by a statement prepared by the Commissioner
setting out each of the matters which to his knowledge is in
dispute between the parties”, referred to above.
From the above facts and circumstances even a cursory
glance will enlighten a reader that Gamage had approached
two forums to ventilate his grievances and to obtain legal
remedy. One through his Trade Union namely Ceylon Bank.
Employees’ Union in the Labour Tribunal Case No. 1/122/04
in terms of Section 31 B (l(a))  in a representative capacity
and the other one by himself (Gamage) through the Minister
of Labour and Labour Relations in terms of Section 4 (1)
of the Industrial Disputes Act No 43 of 1950  as amended.
The matter in issue seems to be the termination of
employment and consequent reliefs meted out by the Labour
Tribunal Order of (OA2).
The Arbitrator under Industrial Disputes Act exercise arbitral
power and jurisdiction of the Arbitrator being equitable and
has an element of discretion, there can be no room for
technicalities or trivialities. Further, jurisdiction of the Arbitator
under the said Act is contingent on reference of an Industrial
Dispute which can be challenged on the grounds that the
matter referred does not relate to an Industrial Dispute. In
Brown and Company Ltd V Ratnayake [1986] 1 Bar
Association Law Journal Report 229 at 231 Rodrigo J (with
whom Rattwatte J concurred) “ .. functions of the arbitral
power in Industrial Disputes is to ascertain and declare what
in the opinion of the Arbitrator ought to be the respective
rights and liabilities as they exist at the moment the
proceedings are instituted .
From this it follows that if he is to ascertain what
ought to be the rights and liabilities of parties and what they
are at the institution of the proceedings he has necessarily
to initiate proceedings himself. The ultimate burden of
making a just and equitable order is his.
With this in view I venture upon my task. It is
appropriate to cite the case, in Silva V Kuruppu SC
182/69; HC minutes of 14.10.1971 . The Supreme Court
took the view that the assessment of compensation is
eminently a matter within the province of the President of
the Labour Tribunal and refused to intervene to reduce the
quantum awarded although it appeared to be on the high side
stating the President had not acted on the wrong principle
nor is the amount awarded so excessive to warrant
intervention by the Appellate Court.
In a similar vein, in Up Country Distributers (Pvt) Ltd.
V Subasinghe (1996) 2 SLT 380; S.C. Appeal No. 111/95.
Wijetunge, J. observed: “The legislature has in its wisdom
left the matter in the hands of the Tribunal, presumably
with the confidence that the discretion would be duly
exercised. To my mind, some degree of flexibility in that
regard is both desirable and necessary if a Tribunal is to
make a just and equitable order ”.
The above two Supreme Court cases set the tune for
the independence of judiciary and now that the Labour
Tribunals Presidents are Judicial Officers and are
empowered and entertained authority to act judicially on a
case by case basis provided that a Trade Union or a Workman
as applicant has to place solid facts and circumstances
supported by documents as enshrined in the Supreme Court
Rule 3 (1) : the object is to ensure that the documents
tendered by the parties are authentic documents that can be

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.02.2016
relied upon in the decision making process and it cannot be
permitted to be used for taking advantage of lapse for
subverting of cause if justice.
It is also very relevant to highlight Dr. Amerasinghe J
in Jayasuriya V Sri Lanka State plantations Corporation
[1995) 2 S.L.R.379. His Lordship stated that “Compensation
is derived from the Latin root compensation, and what is
expected is that after a weighing together of evidence and
probabilities in the case, the Tribunal must form an opinion
of the nature and extent of the loss, arriving in the end at an
amount that a sensible person would not regard as mean or
extravagant, but would rather consider to be just and
equitable in all the circumstances of the case. There must
eventually be an even balance of which the scales of justice
are meant to remind us. The Tribunal must endavour to give
each man that which is his right”. Further, he continued and
held that ‘the burden of the workman to adduced sufficient
evidence to enable the Tribunal to decide the actual
financial loss caused because Compensation in an
indemnity for such loss ’.
Before analyzing the facts of the instant case it is
necessary to consider that the Bank at the very
commencement of the hearings has taken up certain
Preliminary Objections. The main thrust of the argument
on behalf of the Bank was the reference made to me in this
case is,bad in law because it dealt with a similar matter
already had been adjudicated by the competent  Court on its
merits namely by the Labour Tribunal.
Therefore, the Doctrine of Estoppel by Res judicata
applies and the Arbitrator cannot interpret what has already
been decided on the quantum of Compensation and thus
violates the Doctrine of ‘autrefois acquit’ (Double jeopardy).
What is the meaning of Res judicata? It is the Doctrine
that prevents re-litigation of a claim that has been fully
considered and finally decided in Courts. If the losing party
attempts to re-assert such a claim in another action against
the same defendant the claim will barred by the Doctrine of
Res judicata.
Abeyasekara, in his book ‘Industrial Law and Adjudication’
chapter 54 page 998 states as follows so far as the Law of
Res judicata is concerned, the key section in Industrial
Disputes Act has two limbs they are as follows:
1. Where an application under Section 31 B (1) is -
(a) Entertained by a Labour Tribunal, and
(b) Proceedings thereon are taken, and
(c) Concluded,
the workman to whom the application relates shall not
be entitled to any other legal remedy vide: Section 31 B (5) of
the Industrial Dispute Act as amended - in respect of matter
to  which the applications relates.
2. Where the Workman has resorted to any other legal
remedy, he shall not thereafter be entitled to the remedy under
Section 3IB (1) .
An important point to note with regard to the rule of
Res judicata as embracing the Sections aforesaid (Sections
31 B (l) read with 31 B (5)) is that somewhat dissimilar to the
rules available in Civil Law, the principle of Res judicata as
envisaged by these Section applies irrespective of the parties
to the subject matter of the application. The legal remedy that
is  shut out in respect of the matter to which the application
relates necessarily is not in respect of the parties . Thus
where a Trade Union on behalf of a Workman is a party to an
application in a Labour Tribunal, and the application has been
disposed of, upon the same subject matter,  the workman
concerned, though he was not a party to the application ,
cannot resort to any other legal remedy.
The Principles underlying that there should be an end
to litigation and person should not be vexed twice on the
same matter as is provided for in Section 31 B (5).
The case law in point is, In Namasivayam V The
Superintendent, Dickoya Estate SC 69/De Novo 69 decided
on 12.Feb.1971 (unrep)  the union field on an application
on behalf of a workman and the application was dismissed
for default of appearance. The workman field another
application, which was dismissed by the Tribunal in view of
the earlier application and this dismissal was upheld by the
Supreme Court.
In Mendis V River Valleys Development Board (1971)
80 CLW49, held that Section 31 B (5) did not prevent an
applicant who had filed an action in the District Court which
was withdrawn, from thereafter proceeding within an
application to a Labour Tribunal which had been pending the
District Court action seeking substantially same relief since
there was no final order or adjudication on the remedy sought
in the District Court. The Supreme Court thus set aside the
order of the Labour Tribunal upholding an objection by the
employer that in terms of Section 31 B (5) the Tribunal had no
jurisdiction to hear and determine the application as the
workman had sought his remedy in the District Court.
However, the above said decision was not followed by
the Court of Appeal in Ceylon Tobacco Co Ltd V Illangasinghe

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.02.2016
(1986) 1 SLR 1 , where an employee who had first applied
to the commissioner of Labour in terms of the Termination
of Employment of Workmen (Special provisions) Act No
45 of 1971 for relief upon termination, thereafter sought
substantially the same relief on an application to a Labour
Tribunal after the Commissioner determined that the
workman’s case was not covered by the Act since she had
consented to the termination of her services. The Labour
Tribunal overruled a preliminary objection to the
maintainability of the application based on Section 31 B
(5).
The Court of Appeal interpreted the expression ‘legal
remedy’ in Section 31B(5) to mean a remedy provided by
law, whether it be under the common law or by statute,
although it did not encompass any form of administrative
relief. The Court thus held that the employee had first
resorted to a remedy recognized by the 1971 Act.
G.P.S. De Silva J with Abeyawardena J  agreeing
rejected the construction given to Section 31 B (5) in
Mendis case cited above that what it precluded was not a
workman seeking but instead obtaining more than one
remedy, as it did violence to the plain language used in the
Section.
Incidentally it should be noted that the amplitude ofthe
powers of the Minister of the Labour is also highlighted by
the recent decision of the Court of Appeal in Winifreeda
Mills Ltd V Tillekeratne (1984) 1 SLR 186 , herein the
Court of Appeal followed the earlier Supreme Court decision
in the Estates and Agency Co Ltd V Perera (1975) 78
NLR 289 , where the Court held that where applications
before the Labour Tribunals were dismissed or terminated
without any adjudication on the merits, no finality attaches
the proceedings relating to the applications made to the
Labour Tribunals. In such an event if the Minister of Labour
is satisfied of the existence of an Industrial Dispute, no
doctrine of estoppel by Res judicata between the parties
can prevent the performance by the Minister of Labour of
his statutory duty. Sharvanda J , in a separate judgment
explained the rationale for this judicial policy as follows:
“It has to be borne in mind that the Industrial Disputes Act is
a piece of social legislation having for its object the
prevention, investigation and settlement of Industrial
Disputes. Promotion of Industrial peace cannot be achieved
by the application of technical doctrines of estoppel by Res
judicata or otherwise”.
Further, In Wimalasena V Navaratna (1978-79) 2
SLR 10, the issue that arose for determination was whether
the Minister of Labour has the power to refer an Industrial
Dispute for Arbitration under Section 4 (1), when there was
an.inquiry pending the Labour Tribunal regarding the same
dispute. By virtue of the operation of Section 31 B (2) (B)
a proceeding pending before the Labour Tribunal would have
to be dismissed once reference to Arbitration is made. Citing
the Supreme Court decision in Perera’s case mentioned
above the Court of Appeal held the Minister in terms of
Section 4 (1) has the power to refer a dispute for settlement
by arbitration, even though the inquiry was pending in the
Labour Tribunal regarding the same dispute.
However, “in terms of article 114 of the constitution of
the President of a Labour Tribunal is appointed by the Judicial
Services Commission. Thus the status of a Labour Tribunal
as it stands today is entirely different from what it was in 1957
when the Industrial Disputes Act was enacted. Interpretation
Article 170 read with Article 114 of the constitution gave
effect to the exhortations of their Lordships in Walker Sons
& Co. Ltd. V F.C.W. Fry  and went one step further by
including the President of a Labour Tribunal within the
definition of ‘Judicial Officer’. It is interesting to note that
Judicial Services Commission had published in the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1052
dated 30.10.1998 a notification in which eighteen (18) Labour
Tribunal Presidents have been appointed as Magistrates for
the limited purpose of performing duties relating to the
enforcement of their orders.
The combined effect of the provisions of Interpretation
Article 170, Articles 114 and 116 is that the decision in
Wimalasena V Navaratne and Others can no longer be
considered as valid authority for the proposition that the
Minister has unlimited power under Section 4 (1) of Industrial
Disputes Act which would enable him to refer a dispute, which
is pending before a Labour Tribunal to an Arbitrator for
settlement. Such an interpretation would necessarily infringe
and violate the principle of independence of judiciary
enshrined in Article 116 of the Constitution which is the
paramount law”. Vide: Upali Newspaper Limited V Eksath
Kamkaru Samithiya 1999 3 SLR 205 in this case Court of
Appeal held that the Minister of Labour does not have
unlimited powers to refer dispute under Section 4 (1) of
Industrial Disputes Act and that the Court could quash
reference if bad in law.
It is settled law that an Arbitrator has the jurisdiction to
determine whether a valid industrial dispute has”been legally
referred to him. In the case of Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
V Yatawara 64 NLR 49 at page 56/57  it was held that a
Tribunal of special jurisdiction created by statute can only
act, if terms contained in the statute giving it jurisdiction are
complied with. If they are not complied with the jurisdiction
does not arise.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.02.2016
In the light of the legal position detailed above the
pivotal question that should be determined whether the Trade
Union which had filed the Labour Tribunal application had
afforded an opportunity with evidence and documents to
substantiate its case for the Labour Tribunal President to
assess, evaluate and to arrive at a decision to quantify the
quantum of compensation due to them. Failure to adduce
factual representations with solid and substantial evidence
and documents will turn out to be to their own detriment
and it is their own seeking and nothing will cure it. In fact,
reference is in relation to the Labour Tribunal Order and
the relief granted which had been adjudicated on the merits
of the case and the quantum of compensation is determined
on just an equitable principle.
It is obviously clear the documents marked in
Arbitration proceedings such as documents A08, A10, A11
and salary increments referred to should have been marked
and adduced in evidence in the Labour Tribunal case. The
Union applicant which is a strong Trade Union should have
taken interest and should have done justice to workman. Their
failure cannot be remedied by another cause of action by
seeking a reference by the workman himself under Section
4 (l) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The reason being Labour
Tribunal President only categorically indicated without
prejudice to any statutory entitlements and as such Gamage
is not entitled to claim any salary increments or salary
revision as the order precludes Gamage from claiming any
payment other than statutory payments. Gamage admitted
statutory payments include EPF and ETF. And therefore he
is well aware that the other claims referred to in the
reference could not be sought by the said reference which
has no power or authority to go into the legality of the matter.
Labour Tribunal President is a Judicial Officer who had made
the order and in terms of Section 31 D (l) which stipulates
an order of a Labour Tribunal shall be final and shall not be
called in question in any Court.
Where the workman who, or the Trade Union which,
makes an application to a Labour Tribunal or the employer
to whom that application relates is dissatisfied with the order
of Tribunal on that application, such workman, trade union
or employer may, by written petition  in which the other
party is mentioned as the respondent, appeal to the Provincial
High Court on a question of law, Vide: 31 D (2). In
Namasivayam V The Superintendent, Dickoya Estate SC
69/De Novo 69 decided on 12.Feb.1971 (unrep)  the union
filed on an application on behalf of a workman and the
application was dismissed for default of appearance. The
workman filed another application, which was dismissed by
the Tribunal in view of the earlier application and this
dismissal was upheld by ,the Supreme Court. The above said
case is strictly relevant and applicable to the instant case
and therefore the reference made by the Minister is bad in
law and therefore legally invalid.
Be that as it may, the maxim nellus commodum compere
potest de inuria sua propria meaning - that no man shall take
advantage of his own wrong. Weeramantry’s “The Law of
Contact” page 390 and 391. This maxim, which is based on
elementary principles, is fully recognized in Courts of Law
and of equity: reasonableness is the basis of this rule, which
a Labour Tribunal is not entitled to ignore.
As mentioned above the Bank had initiated proceedings
against the order of the learned President of Labour Tribunal
in the Provincial High Court Case  No. HCALT 37/2009
(R-l3(a)) By A9/R10 the wife of Gamage by letter dated
20th
 August 2009 requested the above said Appeal be
withdrawn and the order of the President of Labour Tribunal
to be complied with. The Bank, had acceded to the request of
Gamage’s wife, at the expense and to its detriment from
proceeding with the Appeal in the High Court. Gamage having
precluded the Bank from proceeding with the Appeal, to his
advantage had thereafter made a complaint to the
Commissioner resulted in this instant reference for the
Arbitration for Salary Increments from year 2003- 2008, Bonus,
Holiday Allowances, Salary Revisions as per the Collective
Agreement 2006- 2008 and other entitlements. In that, no
sooner the Bank withdrew the High Court Appeal (R-13 (1))
on 25.11.2009 than by letter dated 30.03.2010 (A-3) addressed
and forwarded to the Deputy Manager of the Bank and
thereafter, directed a letter addressed to Commissioner of
Labour dated 10.11.2010 (A-06(a)), followed.
Gamage had admitted in evidence that his wife had
tendered an Appeal to the Bank This attitude depicts his
dubious nature and was trying to take mean advantage of an
innocent generous heart namely the Bank.
On the application of the above said maxim nellus
commodum compere potest de inuria sua propria  and
considering the Supreme Court Rule 3 (1) referred to above
will show Gamage is  trying to take mean advantage of the
generous disposition of the Bank and subverting the cause
of justice. On the evidence established tend to tilt the scale
of justice  in favour of the Bank. More so in applying the
following maxims namely - equality is equity and also he
who seeks equity must do equity . The evidence
demonstrated by Gamage and on a parity of reasoning
thereon does not throw any light in his favour. Therefore on
that count also he failed measurably and the maxim that no

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'03
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.02.2016
man shall take advantage of his wrong  is well established
in this case.
It is apt to mention the concept of Social Justice set out very
eloquently by Sharvananda J , in Caledonian (Ceylon) Tea
& Rubber Estate Ltd V Hillman (1977) 79 1 NLR 421. “ ...
The goals and values to be secured and promoted by Labour
Tribunals are social security and social justice. The concept
of social justice is an integral part of industrial law and a
Labour Tribunal cannot ignore its relevancy or norms in
exercising its just and equitable jurisdiction. Its sweep is
comprehensive as it motivates the activities of the modern
welfare state. It is found on the basic ideal of socio-economic
equality. Its aim is to assist in the removal of socio-economic
disparities and inequalities. It endeavors to resolve the
competing claims of employers and employees by finding a
solution which is just and fair to both parties .” One could
safely conclude that equity will not suffer a wrong to be
without a remedy.
On the strength of evidence adduced and considering
the facts and circumstances together with documents
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
produced it appears to me on the balance of probabilities, I
am of the opinion that the Banks’ evidence outweighs the
evidence that of Gamage and seems justifiable in the
circumstance. Even an ex gratia  payment cannot be made
out to him for the reason that it will naturally end up in travesty
of justice.
For the foregoing reasons it is my candid view that
Gamage has no claim to meet the ends of justice.
In the premises I make no Award.
I consider this Award as just and equitable in the
circumstances.
T. E
DMUND S ANTHARAJAN ,
Arbitrator.
At Colombo,
23rd December 2015.
02-544