

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1851$7 - 2014 fmnrjdß ui 24 jeks i÷od - 2014'02'24
No. 1851/7  -  MONDAY ,  FEBRUARY  24,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Mohamed Casim Mohamed Sheriff, Secretary to the Provincial Council of the Eastern Provincial Council do hereby Order
publish the Eastern Province Provincial Housing Authority Statute No. 02 of 2013 as described in the Schedule hereto,
sought the Assent of the Governor of the Eastern Province on 13.02.2014 as required under Article 154 H (1) of the Constitution
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and shall come into operation on the day on which the Assent is sought.
M. C. M. S
HERIFF,
Secretary to Provincial Council of the
Eastern Provincial Council.
Provincial Council Secretariat,
Eastern Provincial Council,
Trincomalee,
20.02.2014.
Eastern Province Provincial Housing Authority Statute No. 02 of 2013
A STATUTE TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EASTERN PROVINCIAL HOUSING AUTHORITY,
PROVINCIAL HOUSING PLANNING IMPLEMENTATIONS AND MONITORING , STAFF APPOINTMENT AND FOR THE
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO. THIS STATUTE INCONSISTENT WITH THE NATIONAL
HOUSING ACT (CHAPTER 401)
Be it enacted by the Eastern Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows;
01. This Statute may be cited as the ‘Eastern Provincial Council Housing Authority Statute
No. 02 of 2013    and shall come into operation on such date as the Governor assents.
Short title and
date of
operation
3 — PG 1984

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
2A
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE EASTERN PROVINCE PROVINCIAL HOUSING AUTHORITY
02. (1) There shall be established a Provincial Housing Authority which shall be called as the
Eastern Province Provincial Housing Authority (hereinafter referred to as the “Housing Authority”).
(2) The Housing Authority shall by the name assigned to it by subsection (1) be a body corporate
and shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.
(3) The Housing Authority may in consultation with the Chief Secretary, recommendation from
the Board of Ministers and approval by the Governor establishes and maintains branch offices, when the
Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of housing deems necessary.
03.  (1) The Housing Authority shall consist of the following members;
(a) five members (hereinafter referred to as “appointed members”) who shall be appointed by
the Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of Housing from among persons who
appear to the Provincial Minister to have wide experience, and shown capacity, in civil
engineering, commerce, finance or administration; and
(b) four other ex-officio members who shall be-
(i) The Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Housing of the Eastern Province.
(ii) Deputy Chief Secretary, Finance of the Eastern Province.
(iii) If, on the day on which this Statute came into effect, not created a post of Director
for the Department of Housing of the Eastern Province and such appointment is not
made, until the day on which such appointment is made, the Director of Buildings of
the Eastern Province.
(iv) Provincial Director, Department of Buildings where no Provincial Director, Department
of Housing of the Eastern Province is created and appointed.
(v) Deputy Chief Secretary, Planning of the Eastern Province.
(2) The Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of Housing will nominate and appoint a
Chairman among the appointed members of the Housing Authority.
(3) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing as a member of the Housing
Authority if he is or become a Member of Parliament or Provincial Council or any Local Authority and is
ceased to be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(4) Before appointing a person to be a member of the Housing Authority, the Provincial Minister
shall satisfy himself that such person has no financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially the
discharge by such person of his functions as a member of the Housing Authority. The Provincial Minister
shall also satisfy himself, from time to time, that no member of the Housing Authority has any such interest.
Any person who is appointed by the Minister, or whom the Minister proposes to appoint, as a member of
the Housing Authority shall whenever requested by the Minister so to do, furnish to the Provincial
Minister such information as the Minister considers necessary for the performance by him of his duties
under this subsection.
Establish of a
Provincial
Housing
Authority
Members of the
Housing
Authority

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
(5) Every appointed member of the Housing Authority shall subject to the provisions of
subsections (7) and (8), hold office for such term not exceeding three years reckoned from the date of his
appointment as the Provincial Minister may at the time of appointment determine, and unless he has been
removed from office under subsection (7) shall be eligible for reappointment.
Provided that a member appointed by the Provincial Minister to fill a vacancy in the office of an
appointed member of the Authority shall unless he vacates office earlier, hold office for the unexpired
portion of the term of  office of the member whom he succeeds.
(6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (8), the term of office of the Chairman shall be the
period of his membership of the Housing Authority.
(7) The Provincial Minister may, by order remove any appointed member from office assigning
reason thereof.
(8) A member of the Housing Authority in respect of whom an order under subsection (7) is made
by the Provincial Minister shall vacate his office.
(9) An appointed member of the Housing Authority may at any time resign his office as a member
by a letter in that behalf addressed to the Provincial Minister in charge of Housing.
(10) Where any member of the Housing Authority is temporarily unable to perform the duties of
his office on account of ill health, other infirmity, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, then;
(a) if he is an appointed member, the Provincial Minister may having regard to the provisions
of the subsection 3 (1) (a) appoint another person to act in place of that member; or
(b) if he is an ex-officio member nominated under subsection 3(1)(b), the officer succeed to
that post shall act in place of that member.
(11) Where the Chairman of the Housing Authority is temporarily unable to perform the duties of
his office due to ill health, other infirmity, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Provincial
Minister may appoint any other appointed member to act as Chairman.
(12) All or any of the members of the Housing Authority may be paid such allowances, and other
expenses out of the funds of the Housing Authority.
Provided that the allowances and other expenses shall be paid with the recommendation of the
Board of Ministers in consultation with the Chief Secretary and approval from the Governor.
04. (1) The Chairman of the Housing Authority shall preside at every meeting of the Housing
Authority at which he is present. In the absence of the Chairman at any meeting of the Housing Authority,
the members present elect any member among them and who shall preside at such meeting.
(2) The Housing Authority shall meet whenever it considers necessary.
(3) The person presiding at any meeting of the Housing Authority shall, in addition to his own
vote, have a casting vote.
(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Housing Authority shall be Two-third of the total members.
(5) The Housing Authority may act notwithstanding any vacancy among its members and any act
or proceeding of the Housing Authority shall not be or be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment or nomination of a member
thereof.
Proceeding of
the Housing
Authority

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
4A
(6) Subject to the provisions of this Statute, the Housing Authority may make rules for the
procedure in regard to the meeting of the Housing Authority and the transaction of business at such
meetings.
05  (1) The seal of the Housing Authority shall be in the custody of the Chairman of the Housing
Authority.
(2) The seal of the Housing Authority may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the
Housing Authority.
(3) The seal of the Housing Authority shall not be affixed to any instrument or document except
in the presence of two members of the Housing Authority one of whom shall be the Chairman of the
Housing Authority. Both such members shall sign such instrument or document in token of their presence.
PART II
P
OWERS DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE HOUSING AUTHORITY
06. (1) The powers, duties and functions of the Housing Authority shall be ;
(a) To implement, co-ordinate, supervise and monitor the Provincial Housing Development
Programme and Projects including aided self help housing project other than the National
Housing Projects.
(b) To formulate and submit Provincial Housing Development plan and to submit to the
Provincial Minister in charge of Housing for approval.
(c) to enter into, perform and carryout directly or by way of joint venture all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the purpose of carrying out any provincial housing
development project with the approval of the Provincial Minister in-charge of the Housing
Development subject to the provisions under Section 16 of the Provincial Councils Act
No. 42 of 1987.
(d) to undertake the completion of housing or  to grant housing loan or provision of building
materials to any person in default to complete such house.
(e) to implement provincial housing development plan approved by the Provincial Minister in
– charge for Housing.
(f) to acquire and hold any movable or immovable property or dispose of any movable or
immovable property acquired and  held;
(g) to provide roads, water, electricity, gas, sewerage  and other infrastructure as necessary to
any Housing area;
(h) to charge fees for any services provided by the Housing Authority;
(i) to manufacture, import and supply of materials required for the construction of Houses;
(j) to accept gifts, grants, donations or subsidies whether in cash or otherwise and to apply
them for carrying out any of the objects of the  Housing  Authority;
Seal of the
Housing
Authority
Powers, duties
and functions of
the Housing
Authority.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
(k) to nominate staff of the Housing Authority for  the participation of trainings, skill
development programmes, workshops or seminars locally or overseas compliance to the
Rule made by the  Government or Eastern Provincial Council or any directive from any
other authority governing such nominations.
(l) to do all such an other acts or things as are incidental to or consequential upon the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Statute.
(2) In the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions under subsection
(1), it shall be the duty of the Housing Authority  to formulate or implement any programme of development
work relating to housing planning in consultation with any Government Agency or public corporation, as
the case may be, whose rights, interests or functions may be affected by the proposed work.
(3) It shall be lawful to the Housing Authority to construct houses or any other structure in this
Statute compliance to and adhere to the Provisions of any Law and any Rules, Regulations and By-Laws
published by any Local Authority or Urban Development Authority or any other Institution
07. (1) The Provincial Minister may, from time to time give general or special directions to Housing
Authority to exercise, discharge and perform its powers, functions and duties within its authority and the
Authority shall give effect to such directions.
(2) The Provincial Minister may, from time to time, direct in writing the Authority to furnish  him,
in such form as he may require, returns, accounts and other information with respect to the property and
business of the Housing Authority and the Housing Authority shall carry out every such direction.
08. The  Housing Authority may delegate in writing to the Chairman or any officer of the  Housing
Authority any of its powers, duties and functions under this Statute
PART III
S
TAFF OF THE HOUSING AUTHORITY
09. (1) The Housing Authority shall, with the approval in writing of the Provincial Minister,
appoint a General Manager of the Housing Authority.
(2) The General Manager shall, subject to the general direction of the Housing Authority on
matters of policy, be charged with the direction of the business of the Housing Authority, the organization
and execution of the powers, functions and duties of the Housing Authority and the administrative control
of the employees of the Housing Authority.
(3) The General Manager may, with the approval in writing of the Housing Authority, delegate in
writing to any other employee of the Housing Authority such of his powers, functions, or duties as he may
from time to time consider necessary, and any employee to whom any such powers, functions or duties are
so delegated shall exercise them subject to the general or special directions of the General Manager.
(4) The General Manager may not be removed from office without the prior approval of the
Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of Housing.
10. (1) The Secretary, in consultation with the Chief Secretary and approval from the
Governor, shall,
Directions of
the Provincial
Minister
Delegation of
powers &c. by
the  Housing
Authority
General Manager
of the  Housing
Authority
Appointment &
c. of the staff of
Housing
Authority

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
6A
(a) create necessary cadre and appoint staff for the efficient discharge of duties and functions
of the Housing Authority.
(b) determine the wages and salaries of such staff.
(c) determine the terms and conditions of the service of such staff; and
(d) establish and regulate provident funds or schemes for the benefit of such staff and make
contribution to any such fund or scheme.
(2) At the request of the Housing Authority any officer in the public service may temporarily be
released and appointed to the staff of the Housing Authority for such period as may be determined by the
Housing Authority subject to the governing provisions provided in the Establishment Procedural Regulation
for Eastern Provincial Public Service.
PART IV
F
INANCE
11. (1) There shall be established a Housing Authority Fund (hereinafter called and referred to as
the Authority Fund)
(2) The following receipts of the Housing Authority shall first be paid to the Provincial Fund and
thereafter credited to the Authority Fund.
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to time by the Provincial Council for the
purpose of this Statute;
(b) sums of money received by way of Gift from individuals and non Governmental
Organizations for the purpose of this Statute ;
(c) all sums of money as may be received by the Housing Authority in the exercise, performance
and discharge of its powers, duties and functions.
(d) all sums accruing to the credit of the Housing Authority;
(3) The Housing Authority shall maintain and operate the Authority Fund subject to the provisions
of this Statute.
(4) The Housing Authority may utilize the funds of the Authority for the purpose of defraying any
expenditure incurred in the management of the affairs of the  Authority, the transaction of business of the
Housing Authority, the payment of remuneration to the staff appointed under the provisions of Section 10
of this Statute, allowances and other expenses to the members of the Housing Authority and any other
expenditure in the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties and functions of the Housing
Authority under this Statute and other written law, and for such other purposes as the Authority may
authorize from time to time.
(5) The funds of the Housing Authority shall be appropriated by the Eastern Provincial Council as
provided under Section 19 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 and such sum may be paid out of
the Provincial Fund in such installments as the Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of Finance may
in consultation with the Governor determine and such sums shall be credited to the Authority Fund
established under subsection (1).
(6) The maintenance and operation of the Authority Fund shall be subject to the provisions of
Part III of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987.
Fund of  Housing
Authority

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
12. The Housing Authority may, with the consent of the Provincial Minister and in accordance
with the provisions provided under Section 21 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 borrow such
sums as the Housing Authority may require for meeting the obligations of the Housing Authority in
discharging its duties under this Statute.
13. (1) The financial year of the Housing Authority shall be the calendar year.
(2) The Housing Authority shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income and
expenditure Assets and Liabilities and all other transaction of the Housing Authority.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of the accounts of public
corporations shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Housing Authority, subject to the conditions
that the concurrence of the Government and the Auditor General shall be obtained prior to entrusting the
responsibility for auditing the accounts of the Housing Authority.
PART V
G
ENERAL
14. The Housing Authority shall place Financial and Administrative reports of the year completing
the Calendar year before the Provincial Council of the Eastern Province not later than three months of the
following year.
15. (1) The Housing Authority may make rules in respect of the management of the affairs of the
Housing Authority and all or any of the matters for which rules are authorized or required by this Statute
to be made.
(2) No rule made by the Housing Authority under this Statute shall have effect until it has been
approved by the Provincial Minister, confirmed by Eastern Provincial Council and notification of such
confirmation is published in the Gazette.
16. (1) Where any immovable property is required to be acquired for the purpose of business of
the Housing Authority and the Provincial Minister approves of the proposed acquisition, that property
shall be deemed to be required for a public purpose, and may accordingly be acquired under the provisions
of the Land Acquisition Act and be vested in the Housing Authority. Any sum payable for any such
acquisition shall be paid by the Housing Authority.
(2) Where any state land within the Eastern Province is required for the purpose of any business
of the Housing Authority, the Provincial Minister may take steps in terms of clause 1-1:2 of Appendix II of
the 13
th Amendment to the Constitution, to make available to the Provincial Council of the Eastern Province
such state land to be administered, controlled and utilized by the said Provincial Council through the
Housing Authority.
17. It shall be lawful for the Chairman of the Housing Authority or any officer generally or
specially authorized by him in writing, after giving at least three day’s notice in writing to the owner or
occupier or any land or premises, to enter upon such land or premises and there do such acts as may be
reasonably necessary for the purposes of carrying out any work of the Housing Authority, or of making
any investigation or examination, or the discharge of any function, of the Authority.
Borrowing
powers of
Housing
Authority
Financial year
and the audit of
accounts of the
Housing
Authority
Placing annual
reports before
the Eastern
Provincial
Council
Power of
Housing
Authority to
make rules
Acquisition of
immovable
property under
the Land
Acquisition Act
Power to enter
any land or
premises

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.02.2014
8A
18. Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with any provision of this Statute or any
rules, order, direction or requirement made or given thereunder shall be guilty of an offence under this
Statute, and shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either descriptions for a term not exceeding two years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
19. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires;
“Board of Ministers” means the Board of Ministers established in the Eastern Provincial
Council in terms of Article 154F of the Constitution.
“Chief Secretary” means the Chief Secretary appointed to the Eastern Provincial Council in
terms of Section 31 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987.
“Government agency” means a Government Department or a public corporation;
“Housing development” means the construction of new houses or the maintenance or
improvement of existing houses;
“Housing” means construction of a building or buildings or structure for the use of or
adaptation to use wholly or principally for human habitation.
“Improvements of houses” includes the doing of any other work in  respect of houses
beyond ordinary repairs essential to placing any existing houses in a proper state or
repair;
“Local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban Council, Pradeshiya Sabhas and
includes any Authority created and established by or under any law to exercise, perform
and discharge powers, duties and functions corresponding or similar to the powers,
duties and functions exercised, performed and discharged by such Council.
“Public corporation” means any corporation, board or other body which was or is established
by or under any written law other than the Companies Act, with funds or capital wholly
or partly provided by the Government by way of grant, loan or otherwise;
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of the Eastern Province under
whose purview the subject Housing is assigned.
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and Sinhala texts of this Statute, the Tamil
text shall prevail.
Offences
Interpretation
Tamil text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
03-259