

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of September 29, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 02.10.2017)
THAREEQATHUL AROOSIYYATHIL
QAADHIRIYYAH ASSOCIATION OF SRI LANKA
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of  Sri Lanka
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Seyed Ali Zahir Moulana, M.P. for
Batticaloa District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 23.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
2—PL 005432 —  300 (09/2017)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE THAREEQATHUL AROOSIYYATHIL
QAADHIRIYYAH ASSOCIATION OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS His Holiness Qutbuz Zaman Madihus Sibtain
Al- Allama As-Shaikh Imamul Aroos Sayyid Muhammad
Mapillai Lebbai Alim Waliyullah has established, founded
and maintained several Mosques, Thakkiyas, Madrasas,
Charitable Trusts, Muslim Shrines and Places of Religious
resort and other institutions in Sri Lanka:
AND WHEREAS His Holiness Qutbuz Zaman Madihus
Sibtain Al- Allama As-Shaikh Imamul Aroos Sayyid
Muhammad Mapillai Lebbai Alim Waliyullah  formed an
Association called the Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil
Qaadhiriyyah Association in Sri Lanka and abroad for the
purpose of effectually carrying out the objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Association
according to the practices, rites, customs and rules laid down
by the said Spiritual Head and agreed  by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Thareeqathul
Aroosiyyathil  Qaadhiriyyah  Association of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No.  of 2017.
2. (1) There shall be constituted a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation ”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Thareeqathul
Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah Association in Sri Lanka”  from
and after the date of this Act comes into operation and by
Incorporation
of the
Thareeqathul
Aroosiyyathil
Qaadhiriyyah
Association
in Sri Lanka.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
that name may sue and be sued with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
(2) From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
members of the Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Association”) shall hereinafter continue as members of the
Corporation.
(3) From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
the list of institutions vested with the Association including
those institutions set out in the First Schedule to this Act
shall hereinafter be vested with the Corporation.
(4) Any property, right or thing vested, belonging,
dedicated or associated with the Spiritual Head or
Association from and after the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be vested with the Corporation.
3. The general objects of  the Corporation are hereby
declared to be—
(a) to administer and supervise all Mosques, Thakkiyas,
Madrasas, Charitable Trusts, Muslim Shrines and
Places of Religious resort and other institutions
vested, belonging, dedicated or associated with the
Association founded by His Holiness Qutbuz
Zaman Madihus Sibtain Al-Allama As-Shaikh
Imamul Aroos Sayyid Muhammad Mapillai Lebbai
Alim Waliyullah and his successors;
(b) to appoint, remove and exercise control over trustees
appointed to the list of institutions set out in the
First Schedule to this Act;
(c) to administer and supervise all Mosques, Thakkiyas,
Madrasas, Charitable Trusts, Muslim Shrines and
Places of Religious resort and other institutions that
General
objects of the
Corporation.30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
may be owned, possessed, dedicated, associated or
affiliated to the Corporation including the
appointment, removal and exercise of control over
trustees appointed over the said Mosques,
Thakkiyas, Madrasas, Charitable Trusts, Muslim
Shrines and Places of Religious resort;
(d) to institute legal proceedings to recover any
property or sue in action vested, belonging,
dedicated or associated with the Spiritual Head of
the Association;
(e) to institute legal proceedings to advance any of the
objects of the Association;
(f) to conduct religious and spiritual rites of the
Association;
(g) to promote the sunnath wal jamaath way of Islamic
life which is the mazhab oriented Thareeqathul
Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah sufistic instruction of
the Founder Shaikh among the adherents of the
Islamic faith;
(h) to disseminate the mazhab oriented doctrines and
teachings of Islam, Islamic culture and Sufism and
the promotion of activities for the benefit of the
community;
(i) to conduct research on the work and life of the
Founder Shaikh;
(j) to construct and manage Mosques, Thakkiyas,
Madrasas, Charitable Trusts, Muslim Shrines and
Places of Religious resort and other institutions;
(k) to collect funds and accept endowments and
materials for the building, repair or maintenance of
Mosques, Thakkiyas, Madrasas, Charitable Trusts,
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Muslim Shrines and Places of Religious resort and
other institutions and the conduct of religious and
spiritual rites;
(l) to alleviate poverty;
(m) for the advancement of education;
(n) to administer and manage properties of the
Association;
(o) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary,
ancillary or incidental to the attainment of all or
any of the objects of the Corporation.
4. (1) The Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them including the power to open, operate or close non-
interest bearing bank accounts, to borrow or raise money
free of interest with or without security, to receive, collect,
disburse grants and donations, to invest its funds to construct
any buildings on any land vested in, or acquired or held by
the Corporation, to acquire, purchase, lease or rent land, to
invest in movable property and chooses in action, and to
engage, employ and dismiss personnel for the purpose of
carrying out all or any of the objects of the Corporation:
Provided, however, the powers of the Corporation shall
at all times be exercised in compliance with the principles
of sunnath wal jamaath.
(2) The Corporation shall also have the power to institute
legal proceedings in respect of any property claimed to be
owned, possessed, belonging to , dedicated or associated
with or managed for and on behalf of the Founding Spiritual
Head, Association or Corporation as the case may be.
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. (1) Subject to the general control and direction of the
Spiritual Head, the management and administration of the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Trustees
consisting of such number of office bearers as may be
appointed by the Spiritual Head.
(2) The Spiritual Head of the Corporation shall be the
Life Patron of the Corporation as long as he continues to be
such Spiritual Head.
(3) At the coming into operation of this Act, His Holiness
As-Shaikh Afdhalul Ulama Dr. Thaika Shuaib Alim, B.A.
(Hons)., M.A., ph. D., M.F.A, Jalali, the present Officiating
Shaikh of the Association shall be the Spiritual Head of the
Corporation and shall hold office for life.
(4) The Spiritual Head shall have full power and authority
in his discretion to nominate a successor. Such nomination
shall be in accordance with the rules and will become operative
upon the death or incapacity of the incumbent Spiritual Head.
The Spiritual Head may in his absolute discretion delegate
any of his powers and functions to such persons as he may
think fit and for such period as may be prescribed by him.
Notwithstanding any delegation of any such powers or
functions, the Spiritual Head may at any time exercise any
such powers or functions delegated or revoke such delegation
without notice to the person or persons to whom such powers
or functions has been delegated.
(5) The successors to the Spiritual Head shall in
descending order be—
(i) His Holiness As-Shaikh Afzalul Ulama Ahmad Nasir
Thaika Shuaib also known as Thaika Nasir Alim
Jalali, B.A. (His.), M.F.A., Faazil Jamaali, and
thereafter shall be;
(ii) His Holiness As-Shaikh Yaseen Mujeerudeen also
known as Thaika Mujeerudeen Alim Jalali., B.A.
(Bus. Studies) U.K., Al-Azhari, and thereafter shall
be;
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(iii) Such person nominated by His Holiness As-Shaikh
Yaseen Mujeerudeen also known as Thaika
Mujeerudeen Alim Jalali., B.A. (Bus. Studies) U.K.,
Al-Azhari.
(6) It shall be lawful for the Spiritual Head to appoint a
Board of Trustees to the Corporation and a Board of Trustees
to each institution set in the First Schedule to this Act and
such persons shall hold office during the pleasure of the
Spiritual Head:
Provided, however, the first Board of Trustees of the
Corporation and the first Board of Trustees to each institution
set out in the First Schedule to this Act shall be appointed
by the Spiritual Head and such persons shall hold office
during the pleasure of the Spiritual Head.
(7) The Board of Trustees or the managing body, as the
case may be, of any Mosque, Thakkiya, Madrasa, Charitable
Trust, Place of Religious Resort or any other institution may
apply to the Corporation to be affiliated. The Spiritual Head
of the Corporation may in his absolute discretion allows
such application. The provisions of this Act shall apply to
such Mosque, Thakkiya, Madrasa, Charitable Trust, Place
of Religious Resort or any other institution, as the case may
be, in the event of such application is allowed.
6. (1) Without prejudice to the generality of powers to
make rules to give effect to the principles and provisions of
this Act, it shall be lawful for the Spiritual Head to make
rules to—
(a) determine eligibility for membership, mode of
admission, withdrawal, expulsion and
resignation and fees payable of members;
(b) appointment, resignation or vacation of or
removal from office of and the powers, duties
and conduct of the members of the Board of
Trustees;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(c) appointment, powers, duties, functions, conduct
and disciplinary contorl of the various officers,
agents and employees;
(d) the procedure to be observed in the summoning
of, and holding of meetings of the Board of
Trustees and all matters pertaining to the notices
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
thereof, and the conduct of business thereat;
(e) the administration and management of the
properties;
(f) generally the management of the religious,
spiritual and temporal affairs and the
accomplishment of objects;  and
(g) such other matters that the Spiritual Head may
consider necessary for the attainment of the
Objects of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule may be amended, varied, changed or
rescinded in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1)
of this section.
(3) The rules of the Association in the Second Schedule
shall continue to be in force from the date of commencement
of this Act and shall be deemed to be the rules of the
Corporation.
(4) Members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules made from time to time and the rules set out in the
Second Schedule to this Act.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereinafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, endowments, donations, subscriptions,
contributions, fees or grants for and account of the
Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation
in one or more banks as the Board of Thustees shall
determine.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in
the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act.
8. (1) All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
at the time of the coming into operation of this Act shall be
paid by the Corporation and all debts due to and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the Association shall be paid
to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
(2) All rights and liabilities of the Association existing at
the time of the coming into operation of this Act shall mutatis
mutandis be vested with the Corporation.
9. The Corporation shall be entitled to hold any property
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, lease, exchange,
or otherwise dispose:
Provided, however, the power of the Corporation to
encumber any property shall be exercised in compliance
with the principles of the Shariah.
10. The Seal of the Corporation shall be affixed by the
Spiritual Head or by any person duly authorized in writing
by the Spiritual Head in that behalf.
11. Any action, proceeding or thing vested, belonging,
dedicated or associated with the Association shall from and
after the date of commencement of this Act continue in the
name of the Corporation.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due
towards and
debts payable
by the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Pending
actions.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
FIRST SCHEDULE
List of Institutions
1. Magnamus Suada Thaika,
No. 159, Old Moor Street, Colombo 12.
2. Al-Masjidul Bukhary Thaika, No. 25, Imamul Aroos Mawatha,
Maradana, Colombo 10.
3. Aroosiyatul Quadiriyya Madrasa Arabic College, No. 108/31,
Maligakanda Road, Colombo 10.
4. Katakala Marathady Thaika and Shrine, No. 32, Clifton Lane,
Dematagoda, Colombo 09.
5. Hussain Waliyullah Thaika aka As-Sheikhu Asseyidu
Muhammadu Hussain Waliyullah Thaika,
No. 677, Colombo-Galle Road,Gintota.
6. Khalwat Thakkiya,
Godawatta, Wakwella Road, Gintota.
7. Masjid Muhyiddeen Thakkiya,
No. 37, H. K. Edmund Mawatha, Miliduwa,Galle.
8. Magnam Abkal Hamdu Thakkiya,
Matara Road, Katugoda, Galle.
9. Masjidul Aroosiya Thakkiya,
Akuressa Road, Nugaduwa, Galle.
10. Bukhary Mosque and Madrasa,
Buhary Masjid Mawatha, Galbokka,Weligama.
11. Ma’lul Khairath Thakkiya,
No. 4, St. Servatius Road, Yehiya Kotuwegoda, Matara.
12. Malharus Salah Thaika,
No. 49, (Old No. 917), Yehiya Mawatha, Matara.
13. Muhyddeen Aroosia Qadirriya Thaika,
No. 40, Walker Street, Hambantota.
14. Aroos Moulana Maqbarah Shrine,
Andiyakadawatta, Gampola.
15. Mapillai Alim Khalwath Jalwath Thaika,
Ward 1, Thakwa Nagar, Pulmoddai.
[Section 2(3)]

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
SECOND SCHEDULE
The Rules and Regulations of the Corporation
1. Membership to the Corporation shall be open to all persons
professing the sunnath wal jamaath Islamic faith.
2. Unless otherwise amended all rules hithertobefore relating to the
Association shall continue to apply to the Corporation including rules
relating to—
(a) the conduct of spiritual activities;
(b) the persons who would provide spiritual and religious
services;
(c) the number of trustees, their appointment, removal,
disciplinary control and dismissal ;
(d) the number of members, their admission, removal,
disciplinary control and expulsion;
(e) succession of the Spiritual Head; and
(f) rules relating to the basic tenets of the Corporation.
3. These rules may be changed, varied, amended or rescinded from
time to time except those rules relating to the basic tenets of the
Corporation.
Section [6(4)]

<!-- page 12 -->

11Thareeqathul Aroosiyyathil Qaadhiriyyah
Association of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .