

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1683
1683
wxl 1"828 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'09'13
No. 1,828 – FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 13, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1686
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1686
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,827 of 06.09.2013 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th October, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
September, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1684
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1685
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1686
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th October, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
28th August, 2013.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara W alallawita Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Pasdun Korale West Division and General, District Secretariat,
Birth and Deaths of Ittapana Division Kalutara.
09–316
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  WILDLIFE  CONSERV ATION
The Open Competitive Examination for the
Recruitment to the Posts of Wildlife Guard
Non Technical - Segment 2 – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the
qualifications stipulated here under for the recruitment to the Posts
of Wildlife Guard Non Technical - Segment 2 in the Department of
Wildlife Conservation.
02. Prepared applications according to the format given at the
end of this notification, should be sent by registered post to the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla to reach before the 22.09.2013. The name of the
Examination should be mentioned in the top left hand corner of the
envelope. The application should be prepared to set paragraphs
from 01 to 06 on the first page and rest of paragraphs from 07 to 12
to be on the other pages. The applications should be completed
legibly in own hand writing. Name of the Examination in the heading

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1687
should be mentioned in English in addition to Sinhala or Tamil in Sinhala
or Tamil medium applications. Incomplete applications or applications
which are not prepared in the given format will be rejected without any
notice. Preservation of a photocopy of the application will be beneficial.
03. Salary Scale.– Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 -
Rs. 22,040 (MN-1-2006A).
04. Regulations on Employment :
(a) this post is permanent and pensionable and it is required to
contribute to the widows'/widowers' and orphans' Pension
Fund.
05. Age.–  The age should not be less than 18 years and not more than
30 years.
06. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examinational with six (06) subjects
including credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English,
Mathematics, Science and other one (01) subject ; and
(b) Should have passed General Certificate of Education
(Advanced Level) Examination at least with one (01) subject
(excluding Common General Test).
07. Physical Qualifications :
(i) The appilcant should possess a sound physical health.
(ii) All the applicants should be of excellent physical and mental
character to perform the duty at any part of Sri Lanka.
(iii) The male applicants should not be less than 05 feet 04 inches
tall and the female applicants should not be less than 5 feet 02
inches tall.
08. Other :
(i) The applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be of excellent character ;
(iii) All the qualifications required to the recruitment to the post
should be fulfilled to the date on which the notification/Gazette
paper for calling applications mentioned.
09. Recruitment Procedure :
(1) A number equal to five times existing vacancies will be called
for the interview from among the candidates who obtained
highest marks at the written examination and vacancies will
be filled on the basis of the aggregate marks scored at both
Examination and Interview.
(2) All the selected candidates will be recruited to the post of
Trainee Wildlife Guard for six months and only the allowance
will be paid during this period. The officers those
who have completed the training course successfully
only be qulaified to the permanent post and vacation
of post or not completion of the course successfully
will cause to cancel the claim of applying for this
post again.
10. Written examination will include following subject. In
order to be qualified in the written examination, candidates are
required to obtain 40 marks or above. Applicants will be recruited
on the results of the written test and interview :
Month to be held the Examination : December
Subject for the Examination :
1. Intelligence Test  Time : 01 hours - Total mraks - 100
Syllabus.– Intelligence Test.
This paper will consist of 50 multiple and brief answers
quaestions to identify the candidates' thinking ability.
Logical ability, analytical ability and decision making ability.
All the questions should be answered.
Examinations Fee. – The examination fee is Rs. 500. The
examination fee should be paid to any District or Divisional
Secretariat in the Island to be credited to the Revenue Head No.
2003-02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations and the
receipt obtained in favour of the applicant should be affixed
along one margin at the relevant portion of the application. A
photocopy of the receipt should be retained for future reference.
The Examination fee is not refundable due to any what so ever.
1. Examination Centres will be set up only in towns
indicated in the Schedule. The date to be held the
Examination will be informed later. Towns and Town
Numbers in which the applicants except to sit for the
Examination should be mentioned in order of
preference. Centre in any town will be cancelled if
sufficient number of candidates has not requested that
town. In case of such cancellation of any town
candidate will be transferred to centre set up in the
nearest town. The examination will be held in the
medium of Sinhala, Tamil and English only. Change of
the medium already applied will not be allowed later.
The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations in regard to conduct of examination and
issue of result shall be final and conclusive.
2. Admission cards will be issued to all the applicants
assuming that all who have fulfilled the qualifications
mentioned in the Gazette notification. As soon as the
admission cards are issued to candidates Department
of Examinations will publish a paper notice announcing
it. If the admission card is not received even after 2-3
days of such notice, it should be informed the
Department of Examinations accordingly. In such

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1688
instance, it would be more useful to provide information
via fax to Department of Examinations with certified
photocopies of both original application form and receipt
of payment, the receipt received for the registered post, in
case of applicant lives outside Colombo, fax number to
which the admission card should be and the letter of request.
Note.– Without producing the admission card, nobody
will be permitted to enter the examination hall.
Candidates who wish to sit for the examination must
produce the attested. Admission cards to the Supervisor
of the Examination Centre.
3. Issuing an Admission Card is not cosidered to be a
qualification to sit for the Examination.
4. Release of the Results.–  Results sheet will be prepared on
the basis of the merit of aggregate marks scored at both
Written Examination and Interview. The results sheet
included the number of applicants equal to existing
vacancies will be posted to the Director General of Wildlife
Conservation.
All candidates appeared for Written Test and Interview
will receive a personal results sheet indicating marks scored
at each test separately.
11. Identity of the Candidates.– Candidates should prove his/her
Identity to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre by providing
one of the following documents :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of persons.
2. Valid Passport.
12. The candidates should adhere to the Examination Rules and
Conditions implemented by the Director General of Examinations.
If a candidate violates any of those rules he/she is liable to be punished
at the discretion of the Director General of Examinations.
13. Interview.– An Interview Board appointed by the Director
General of Wildlife Conservation will interview the candidates.
Maximum marks of 100 will be offered to a candidate for the
Structured Interview which is based on criteria.
14. If any problem arise regarding a matter not mentioned in the
Gazette notification. Final decision will be taken by the Director
General Wildlife Conservation. Further the decision regarding filling
or non -filling or filling a part of vacancies by this calling of
applications will be taken by the Director General of Wildlife
Conservation.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and
English notifications, the text in the Sinhala notification shall prevail.
H. D. R
ATHNAYAKE,
Director General of Wildlife Conservation.
SCHEDULE
Name of towns and their town numbers where Examination
Centres will be established.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vauniya 12
Mullathiv 13
Kilinochchi 14
Baticalao 15
Ampara 16
Trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
Anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
Badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Rathnapura 24
Kegalle 25
Index Number :
(For office use only)
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS
OF WILDLIFE GUARD NON TECHNICAL - SEGMENT 2 IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
WILDLIFE CONSERV ATION - 2013
The medium of language you wish to appear for the examination
(As per the notification)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
Town and Town Number you apply for the examination (As per
the notification)
Town Town Number
1
2
3

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1689
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  THE
WRITTEN  TEST  ON  COMPUTER  SKILLS  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2011(I) (2013)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination and a
Written Test on Computer Skills for officers in Class III of the
Public Management Assistants' Service will be held by the
Commissioner - General of Examinations, as per the relevant
provisions of the approved Service Minutes, in the month of
December, 2013.
01. Name with initials (In English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
Ex.– SUNIL, A. B.
1.2 Name in full (In English Block Letters) :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address (In English Capital Letters) :
2.1 :–––––––––––.
2.2 The Address to which the admission card should be sent
(In English Capital Letters) :–––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Please write the relevant number in the box)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age to the closing date of applications  :
Years : Months : Days :
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Applicant District of Residence :–––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––.
06. Present Post and the Working Place :–––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
08. Have you been subjected to any disciplinary inquiry or been
convicted of punishments accordingly during last 5 years ? If
yes, give detail :–––––––––––.
09. Declaration of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I
know for certain that according to the rules and regulations of
the above recruitment, if it is found before selection that any
particulars furnished here are false or incorrect. I am liable to be
cancelled my candidature before the recruitment or aftermath
and dismiss at any time if such information is found to be false
or incorrect after I am appointed to this post. I agree to abide by
all the rules and regulations applicable to this examination by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and decision regarding
the release of results.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10. Affix the receipt properly here :
(i) The number of the receipt :–––––––––––.
(ii) The date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Name of the place which the payment was made :––––.
(iv) The amount paid : Rs. :–––––––––––.
11. Attestation of the Applicant's Signature :
I certify that applicant who submit the application is personally
know to me and he put his known signature before me today.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester and
the Official Stamp.
(Candidate's signature should be attested by Head of the State School,
Attorney-at-law, Justice of the Peace, Grama Niladari of the
Division, the incumbent of a place of worship of religion or a
permanent Government Staff Officer)
12. Certification of the Head of the Department/Institution :
(This is only for the candidates who are being employed in
public service/Provincial Public Service/State Corporation/
Staturity Boards)
I recommend the application of Mr ................................. serving
as .............................. in this institution, attached herewith. I certify
that his performance in duty and the behavior is appreciated and not
been subjected to any disciplinary action or not to be intended. I am
also inform that if he is selected for the aforesaid post, he can be
released from the service without a successor.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
09–327
–––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1690
2.0  Information on the eligibility of the candidates are furnished
in Section Nos. 5 and 9 of the Public Management Assistants'
Service Minute published in the Government Extra Ordinary Gazette
No. 1,372/23 of 24.12.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The relevant towns and town numbers are given below. It will not
be allowed to change the town applied for subsequently.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
A center without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled
and the relevant candidates will be directed to the next nearest
centre available.
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of these rules and regulations.
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
‘‘Commissioner - General of Examinations, Organizations and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla" on or before 14th October, 2013. The
name of the examination should be indicated in the top left hand
corner of the envelope of the application. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
The post and service station of the candidate, at the time he/she
applies for the examination will be applicable for all matters relating
to examination and any changes which occur in the past and service
station after sending the application will not be considered.
6.0 Identity of the Candidates .– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents might be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised as not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/her self complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st time
need not pay examination fees. However, the examination fee of
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and the examination fee of
Rs. 200 for a single subject should be affixed for subsequent sittings.
This examination fee can be paid to any District of Divisional
Secretariat in the Island to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13
of the Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt should
be affixed firmly in the relevant cage. Further it is advisable to keep
a photocopy of the receipt. Under any circumstances, the fees will
not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination.
8.0  The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to
sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will
not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification will be
published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as
soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the admission
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in
the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to
keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1691
Examinations : i. e.– receipt of registration and in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax number to which
the admission cards should be sent.
9.0  The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0  This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. The officers may sit for this examination either in the language
medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the service
or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered the
service without a competitive examination may sit for the
examination in their medium of education or in one of the official
languages. The language medium of examination, mentioned originally
in the application cannot be changed subsequently.
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different
occasions at their discretion. However they should score at least
40% of the total marks for each subject, for a pass.
12.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will release the
results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and names of the successful candidates will be published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
13.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written
examination that will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Subject Marks Duration
No.
(i) Office systems 01 100 01 hr.
(ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 01 hr.
(iii) Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hrs.
13.1 Office Systems (Subject No. 01) :
Basic knowledge in office systems adopted in
Government offices and the ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. Further,
the candidates’ ability of understanding official
correspondence, ability of indicating observations/ideas
precisely and clearly and the skill of drafting letters as
per the instructions given will be tested. This paper
will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short
answers. Answers should be provided on
the paper itself. Should answer all the
questions. (25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type.
Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75
marks).
13.2 Accounting Systems (Subject No. 02) :
Candidates' knowledge in an understanding of basic
accounting procedures adopted in Government offices
and the purposes of books and records on financial
control will be tested. Paper will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short
answers. Should provide answers on the paper
itself. Should answer all the questions. (25
marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type.
Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75
marks).
13.3 Test on Computer Skills (Subject No. 03) :
Objective of this test is to verify the candidate’s skills
on the following :–
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating System
File Management
Word Processing Basic skills, Screen
Familiarization, Editing text
Aligning Text, Fonts and
Attributes, Indenting
Paragraphs, change of Line
Spacing, Tab settings, Finding
and replacing text, Spelling and
Grammar, Thesaurus.
Working with columns,
Page setup
Printing documents, Creating
Tables, Sorting text
File Management
Mail Merging
Working with macros
Spreadsheets Basic Skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges, Insertion
and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating charts
Printing
@ Function
Working with Macros, File
Management
Databases Introduction, Basic skills
Databases - Creation and
application
Forms
Linked forms, Popup forms,
Dialog and message boxes
Queries
Sorting
Reports
Working with macros

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1692
Presentations/Graphics Basic skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting
images, clip art and graphs
Slide Transition and effects,
Animations
Using Presentation tools,
Preparing Masters, Printing
slides and notes
Internet Introduction to Internet, World
Wide Web, How to Navigate,
Practical Internet
E-mail Introduction, basic skills,
receiving mail, sending mail,
responding to mails
Working with attachments,
creating and using nicknames
Composing messages
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I .– Consist of 40 questions of MCQ type that
require short answers - Duration 45 minutes
(40 marks) ;
Part II .– 05 semi structured questions - Duration 45
minutes. (60 marks).
Note.– As per Section 5:1:2 of Public Management Assistants’
Service Minute, officers who possess computer driving
licenses awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial
Training Authority or an equivalent or a higher certificate
issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education
and Vocational Education Commission, which are
published in the web address, www.pubad.gov.lk/web/
eservices/images/stories/special notice/com%28itrelease%
2920121108.pdf of the official webside of Ministry of
Public Administration and Home Affairs will be exempted
from the written test on computer skills. Further, the
officers who have obtained the certificate of Computer
Application Assistant (NVQ Level 3) offered by the
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
are also exempted from the written test on computer
skills.
14.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
26th August of 2013.
Specimen Form of Application
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AND THE WRITTEN
TEST ON COMPUTER SKILLS FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS
III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’ SERVICE -
2011(I) (2013)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the town in which you intend to sit the examination
according to your preference as per Gazette Notification)(This
cannot be altered subsequently).
Language Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage).
(This cannot be changed subsequently).
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) Eg: SILV A A.B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals).
2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
 3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.).
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :                Date :
3.3 N. I. C. No.  :

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1693
4.0 Subject/s you are offering now (Refer Para. No. 13.0 of the
Gazette Notification) :
Serial No. Subject Subject No:
01
02
03
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Appointment letter number :–––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?
:–––––––––––.
6.2 If not, examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
6.3 District/Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
6.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
6.5 Date :–––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt of examination fees paid of
Rs. 400 for whole examination and Rs. 200 for only
one subject. It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt.
I declare that the information furnished above is correct and I am
eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned
above. The receipt affixed is to the value of Rs. ............. I agree to
abide by the rules and regulations of this examination imposed by
the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of his/her respective Head of Department or an officer
assigned to sign on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is an
employee of my work station and who is personally known to me
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................... and further
stamps to the value of examination fee have been affixed.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination
previously ;
(iii) The officer has appeared for the examination previously
and *he/she has affixed the receipt of the fees for the
relevent examination ;
(iv) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
09–328
–––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Posts of Segment - 3 of Management Assistant (Technical)
Category (MT01-2006(A)) at the Department of Government Information – 2013
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified male/female candidates for recruitment to the post of segment - 3 of Management Assistan t
(Technical) category (MT01 2006(A)) under the open stream at the Department of Government Information.
02. Qualified candidates selected upon the rank obtained in a written examination, which either will be held by the Commissioner
General of either Examinations or by an institution on behalf of the Director General of Government Information would be appoin ted to
following vacancies :
01 Still photography 01
02 Video shooting 01
03 Editing 01
B5-B80765

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1694
04 Sound technology 01
05 Vehicle maintenance 01
06 Electrical equipment maintenance 01
07 Building maintenance 02
03. Educational and Professional Qualifications :–
Post T echnical Assistant
Educational Qualifications Shall pass G . C. E. (O/L) in six subjects at less than two sittings including Language or
Literature, Mathematics and Science.
Professional Qualifications Shall successfully complete a Technical course relevant to the respected field, which
suit the NVQ level 5 and accredited by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.
Fields include still photography, video shooting, editing, sound technology, laboratory
affairs, motor vehicle maintenance and electrical equipment and building maintenance.
04. Physical Qualifications. – Each candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to
discharge duties of the post.
05. Other Qualifications :–
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) Should have obtained all qualifications mentioned above that require to be appointed to the post.
All qualifications should be duly completed before the date mentioned in the vacancy notice/ gazette.
06. Age.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age on the deadline.
07. Written Examination.– This examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil mediums either by the Commissioner General of
Examinations or by an institution on behalf of the Director General of Government Information only in Colombo.
Subject Syllabus Time Total Pass
Marks Mark
01 Intelligence Test Consists of multiple - choice questions to asses the logical 01 100 40
thinking analytical thinking and decision-making ability of hour
the candidate.
02 Subject wise Consists of multiple-choice and structured questions relevant 01 100 40
Knowledge to respective posts hour
08.  Salary Scale.– Rs. 14,425 -10x145 - 11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 23,665. MT- 01 2006(A) (According to P. A. Circular
No. 06/2006(iv))
09. Conditions of the Service :–
* Recruited officers must agree to serve in any part of the Island.
* This post in permanent and pensionable.
* Appointees must contribute to the Widows and Orphans Fund.
10. Applications should be prepared according to the specimen form of Application given at the end of this notice using both
sides of an A4 sheet by including No. 1 to 5 in the first page and rest in second and third pages. Application should be prepar ed in the
respected medium, which the candidate is expecting to sit for the examination. Applications that do not comply with directions of this
notice will be rejected.
11. Reception of applications will not be informed to the candidate. Applications received after the closing date will not be
accepted.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1695
12. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination and will be informed to the address stated in the application before two
weeks of the examination.
(i) Complaints on misplacements or delays in the post are not entertained.
(ii) Complaints regarding applications sent to other addresses apart "Director General of Government Information, Department
of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05" will not be entertained.
(iii) Candidates who are already in the public service should apply through their respective heads of institutions. The Head
of the institution should certify that the candidate would be released from his existign post after being selected.
(iv) It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application.
(v) Sending an Admission Card does not mean that, the canidates has been considered as fulfilled his qualifications.
13. If a candidate does not receive the admission card prior to 07 days to the date of examination, inform to "Director General
of Government Information, Department of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05" with following details.
(Telephone/Tax - 011-2514092).
y Letter of application,
y Name of the Examination,
y Full name of candidate,
y National Identity Card Number,
y Postal address of the candidate,
y Photocopy of the application,
y Post office, registration number and the date which the application was posted,
y Photocopy of the receipt which examination fees has been paid,
y Fax number of the candidate, which the Admission Card is to be sent.
14. Method of application :
(a) Applications prepared according to the following specimen should be sent by registered post to reach "Director General
of Government Information, Department of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05"
before 01.10.2013, Cite, "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Technical Assistant on the top
left hand corner of the envelope, in which the application form is enclosed.
(b) Closing date for sending applications is 01.10.2013.
(c) Each candidate should pay an examination fee of Rs. 500 by a Money Order addressed to Director General of Government
Information, Department of Government Information, No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05, payable at the General
Post Office, Colombo. Examination fees will not be refunded under any circumstances.
15. Attestation of Signature.– The candidate's signature should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/
Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service/Sri Lanka Accountant's Service/a Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Pea ce/
Attorney-at-Law/a Government Officer receiving an annual consolidated basic salary of Rs. 240,360.
Note : y Candidate should certify that questionnaire of the application is duly filled in and all particulars are given
correct.
y Certified copies of relevant certificates should be attached.
y Every officer recruited accordingly shall be subject to general conditions governing public officers, the
Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies enacted by the Department of
Government Information, Financial Regulations, other Government Regulations and Orders made by the
Government from time to time.
y The Director General of Government Information has the inclusive authority of filling all or a decided quantity
of vacancies.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1696
y Decision of the Director General of Government Information is the final decision on any matter not covered by the
general circular and on any doubtful matter regarding recruitment to these posts. In case of any inconsistency among the
Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of the Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Prof. A
RIY ARATNA ATHUGALA,
Director General of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
30th August, 2013.
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF SEGMENT - 3 OF MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANT (TECHNICAL) CATEGORY (MT 01 2006(A))  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION – 2013
Field Applying for :
Medium of the Examination :
Sinhala - 01
Tamil - 02
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Name with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters E. g.– Mr./Mrs./Miss SILV A A. B.)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (Personal) :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.2 Address (Personal) :––––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at closing date :
Years : Months : Days :
04. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
05. Gender :––––––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. O/L Examination :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.09.2013
1697
(b) Other Particulars Qualifications and Experience :––––––––––––.
07. Particulars of the receipt, which the examination fee is paid :
(i) The office to which the examination fee is paid :––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Paid amount :
Paste the receipt here as not to be detached. Rs. 500.
08. Certification of the Applicant :
I declare that the information given herein are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am also aware if I have
provided any false information, my candidature will be cancelled before or after the examination and if so found after selection I am liable
to be dismissed from the service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
09. Attestation of the signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................................... is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her si gnature in my
presence on .............................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting.
Name in full :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
09–401
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.