

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2009
613
613
wxl 1"600 _ 2009 wfm%a,a 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod _ 2009'04'30
No. 1,600 – THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... -
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 615
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such Notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th May, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th April,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part I/III of the Gazette No. 1,599 of 24.04.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2009
614
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Sta ndard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2009
615
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
CEYLON-GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
INSTITUTE  –  MORATUWA
Ministry of Transport
ADMISSION TO FULLTIME COURSES
(UNDER THE NATIONAL APPRENTICESHIP SCHEME – 2009)
APPLICA TIONS are invited for admission of Male & Female
Trainees for the year 2009.
Minimum Qualifications required are as follows :
01. ( a) Age : Between 16 & 22 years as at 31.03.2009
(b) Education : Passed in 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination including Sinhala/Tamil language (Medium
of Instruction) and Mathematics in one sitting.
or
Applicants who has special skills.– Candidates who
has placed among first three places in a Provincial
level competition or obtain a merit certificate by a
national competition of Sri Lanka Inventors
Commission in Electrical/Electronic/Mechanical field
and
passed in six subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
including Sinhala/Tamil language (Medium of
Instruction) and Mathematics in two sitting. (Limited
number of candidates will be enrolled on this category)
Note : Those who are already following fulltime courses in the
following training Institute are not eligible to apply for
the full-time courses of CGTTI.
(i) Apprentice Training Institute – Moratuwa
(ii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute –
Orugodawatta
(iii) Ceylon German Railway Training Institute –
Ratmalana
02. Medium of Examination & Training Instructions.— Medium
of examination and training institution will be in Sinhala & Tamil.
03. Examination Centers.—  A written examination for admission
will be conducted at Centers in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Badulla,
Anuradhapura & Trincomalee as indicated in the application form
given below. Having an additional examination centers would be
considered if there are over 100 applicants from other provinces.
Applicants who possess the requisite minimum qualifications will
be allowed to sit the admission test provided examination fees
referred to in column 5 below have been paid. The above test will be
based on Mathematics, General knowledge, General Intelligence &
Technical Drawing.
04. Examination Fees.—  Rupees Three Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 350).
Method of Payment.—  The payment can be made to the any
Bank of Ceylon Branch to The Accountant credit to the Account
Number 681490 maintained at Moratuwa Branch.
Paying voucher of the Bank should be attached to the application.
The application should be forwarded together with the paying
voucher of the Bank.
Paying vouchers that are defaced or erased will not be accepted.
Application which do not contain a credit voucher to the value of
Rs. 350 will be rejected. Examination fees will not be refunded to
candidates those who are not appearing for the examination or on
rejection of their applications for any other reason.
05. Primary Selection.—  Primary selection of candidates for
admission will be merit based on the written examination and those
who obtain the required highest marks will be summoned for an
aptitude test and interview for the final selection and influencing in
any form would lead to disqualification. Cutoff mark for less
privileged provinces would be decided by the Governing Board.
(Less privileged provinces are decided according to Sri Lanka
Examination Department).
06. Final Selection.—  Those who obtained highest marks from
aptitude test and interview would be considered for final selection.
40% marks are allocated for aptitude test & 60% for the interview.
Extra curricular activities are specially considered at the interview.
The selected candidates will have to pass a medical examination and
those who fail the medical test will be discontinued.
07. Training Courses.—  Selected candidates will be allowed to
follow the under mentioned courses of training depending on the
aptitude they show in the test conducted after 09 months of basic
training.
Automobile – 4 years
Millwright/Fitter – 4 years
Power Electrical – 3  1/2 years
Air-Con. & Ref. – 3 1/2 years
Tool Machinery – 3 1/2 years
Auto Electrical – 3 years
Diesel Mechanics – 3 years
Welding – 3 years
Motor Vehicle
Body Repair & Painter – 3 years
08. Bond to be signed.—  Selected Candidates will have to enter
in to an agreement with the National Apprenticeship & Industrial
Training Authority. In addition they will be bonded to serve

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2009'04'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.04.2009
616
Sri Lanka Central Transport Board for two years after successful
completion of their training.
09. Applications.—  The application should be prepared as per
specimen form given below (210mm x 297mm-A4 size) and
photo copies of following certificates should also be attached with
the application.
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Educational Certificates ;
(c) Applicants who apply under special skills should forward
certificates of provincial/National level competition by
Sri Lanka Inventors Commissions.
Application forms could be down loaded from the
Institute web site, (www.cgtti.slt.lk)
10. Closing date of applications.— Applications should be sent
to The Manager - Human Resource & Administration, Ceylon
German Technical Training Institute, No. 582, Galle Road, Mount
Lavinia, by Registered post on or before 2
nd June, 2009. The
envelope in which application is enclosed should be marked,
"Recruitment of Apprentice – 2009" on the top left-hand corner.
late applications will be rejected.
Manager,
Human Resource & Administration.
Ceylon-German Technical Training Institute,
No. 582, Galle Road,
Mount Lavinia,
Telephone No.: 0112605625.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Application for Admission to Full-time Course - 2009
The Ceylon-German Technical Training Institute-Moratuwa
(Under the National Apprenticeship)
1. ( a) Full Name :————.
(b) Name with initials :————.
2. ( a) Postal Address :————.
(b) District :————.
(c) Province :————.
3. ( a) Date of Birth :————.
(b) Exact age on 31.03.2009 :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
(c) National Identity Card or Postal Identity Card No. :
————.
4. Sex - Male/Female :————.
5. Educational Qualifications : Subject at the G .C.E. (O/L) should
be indicated.
First : Second :
Year :———. Index No. :——. Year :———. Index No. :——.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
........................... ........... ........................... ...........
6. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (province/
national) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, if
the candidate is applying under the special skills category :—
———.
7. ( a) Medium in which the Candidate wishes to sit the
Admission test :————.
(b) Center at which the Candidate wishes to sit the Admission
test :————.
(Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Anuradhapura, Badulla and
Trincomalee)
8. (i) Name the Bank of Ceylon Branch, where payment was
made :————.
(V alid copy of the paying in voucher to the value of
Rs. 350 is attached herewith).
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are
true and accurate, I am also aware that if any particulars
contained here in are found to be incorrect, I am liable for
disqualification/dismissal before or after selection.
——————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
04-604
PRINTED AT THE DEPATMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA