

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.  5.50  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 25, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 21st November, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
COMMERCIAL MEDIATION CENTRE OF
SRI LANKA  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  37  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka
(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005
1
Short title.
[Certified on 21st November, 2005]
L. D. — O. 86/2002.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  COMMERCIAL  MEDIATION  CENTRE  OF
SRI LANKA  ACT , NO . 44 OF  2000
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Commercial Mediation
Centre of Sri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005.
2. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 3 of the Commercial Mediation
Centre of Sri Lanka Act, No. 44 of 2000, (hereinafter referred
to as the “principal enactment”) and shall have effect as
sections 3
A , 3B , 3C , 3D , 3E and 3F of that enactment:—
3A . (1) Where parties have agreed under a
mediation agreement to refer any dispute for
settlement by mediation in terms of this Act,
notwithstanding anything in any other written
law to the contrary, no proceedings in regard to
a commercial dispute shall be instituted in, or
be entertained by a Court unless accompanied
by a certificate of non-settlement referred to in
section 3
F.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall
not apply where a party to a dispute referred to
therein seeks relief in respect of any provisional
remedy under Part V of the Civil Procedure Code
and any action instituted in respect of any such
matter may be entertained and determined by a
Court only in so far as it relates to the grant of
such provisional remedy.
(3) For the purposes of this section a
mediation agreement may be in the form of a
mediation clause in a contract or in the form of
Insertion of new
sections 3A , 3B , 3C ,
3D , 3E and 3F in
the Commercial
Mediaiton Centre
of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 44 of 2000.
“No court
action to be
instituted
without
certificate of
non-
settlement.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka
(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005
a separate agreement by which the parties
agree to refer all or any dispute which may
arise between them in respect of a defined legal
relationship whether contractual or otherwise,
for settlement by mediation.
3B . An application being made to the
centre for the settlement of any dispute by
mediation, shall be dealt with in terms of rules
made by the Board under paragraph (b) of
subsection (2) of section 12.
3c. It shall be the duty of every party to a
dispute and of every Mediator to maintain
confidentiality in respect of documents
submitted and any other matters that are
revealed or discussed during the conduct of
mediation sessions.
3D . (1) Every person who makes a statement
at a mediation session shall, in respect of such
statement be entitled to  all the privileges
which a witness giving evidence before a court
of law is entitled to, in respect of such
evidence.
(2) No statement made by any person at a
mediation session shall be admissible in
evidence in any civil or criminal proceeding.
3E. Where, the parties to a dispute agree to
a settlement, the terms of the settlement shall—
(a) be reduced to writing; and
(b) be signed by the parties; and
(c) be binding as between the parties and
enforceable in law as a valid contract.
Dispute to be
mediated in
terms of rules
of the Centre.
Confidentiality.
Privilege of
persons
making
statement at a
mediation
session.
Settlement
agreement.

<!-- page 4 -->

Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka
(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005
3
 
3F. (1) Where the parties to a dispute do not
agree to a settlement, the mediator or the
mediators who shall have managed the
mediation process in respect of such dispute,
shall issue a Certificate stating that it was not
possible to settle such dispute by mediation.
Every such Certificate shall be signed by the
mediator or mediators as the case may be.
(2) A certificate issued under subsection (1)
may be produced in evidence in any action or
proceeding instituted in any Court, and it shall
not be necessary to call such person as a witness
in proof thereof.
(3) The court may presume that the signature
of any mediator on any Certificate of non-
settlement is genuine and that the mediator
signing it had authority to do so:
Provided that if in any case the Court is of
opinion on the application of any party or
otherwise and for reasons to be recorded that it
is necessary that the mediator be present to give
evidence at any proceedings before such court,
such mediator shall be summoned as a witness
for the purpose only of giving evidence in
relation to the signing of such Certificate.”.
3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the insertion
immediately after paragraph (e) thereof, of the
following new paragraph :—
“(f) one member nominated by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Trade and Commerce.”;
and
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
Certificate of
non-
settlement.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka
(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection (6)
of that section of the following new subsection:—
“(7) A member appointed to the Board under
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of subsection (1) to
represent a Chamber as is specified therein shall
cease to hold office as a member of the Board if
he ceases to be a member of the respective
Chamber which he represents.”.
4. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka
(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005
5
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.