

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of June 24, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 27.06.2016)
BERTY DISSANAYAKE FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Berty Dissanayake Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by  Hon. K. Kader Masthan,  M.P. for
Vanni District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Berty Dissanayake Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 010034—300 (06/2016)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BERTY DISSANAYAKE FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association  called and known as the
“Berty Dissanayake Foundation” has heretofore been formed
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected  with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the such application :
BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Berty Dissanayake
Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2016.
2. From and after  date of commencement of this Act, such
and so may persons as now are members of  the  “Berty
Dissanayake Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or  shall  hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate,
(hereinafter referred to as the  “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of “Berty Dissanayake
Foundation”  and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and  use a common
seal and  alter  the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to make planning and achieve goals through human
and physical resources analysis in community
participation development ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Berty
Dissanayake
Foundation.
25 General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Berty Dissanayake Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to keep informed of community and community
organisations and strenthen and confirm then in order
to make development strategies efficient ;
(c) to coordinate with other government and non
government organisations in the implementation of
development activities ;
(d) to implement a sustainable development which is
essential to, accepted and affordable by community ;
(e) to find develop and maintain resources essential for
development activities ;
(f) to make essential the technology, representation and
contribution of the Berty Dissanayake Foundation
for the development activities of the relevant areas ;
(g) to maintain productivity, efficiency and thrifty in the
Berty Dissanayake Foundation ; and
(h) to effective and efficient implementation of
programmes under the following matters for the
achievement of above objectives :—
(i) Child and youth (from month 0 to year 18)
Development ;
(ii) Micro Financial facilities and saving ;
(iii) Environment and physical Assets ;
(iv) Health and Nutrition ;
(v) Women’s Development ;
(vi) Relief Services and Rehabilitation ;
(vii) Impowerment of Basic Common Amenities.

<!-- page 4 -->

Berty Dissanayake Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary,
Assistant Secretary, Treasurer and another eleven members
elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The Founder member of the Foundation Honourable
Duminada Dissanayake shall be the Chairman of the Board
of Directors for life. And thereafter the close relative of   the
person who was holding office as the Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new members shall be appointed to fill such
Vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a
period of four Years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what
so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any
building or structures on any land held by the Corporation
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Berty Dissanayake Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administrations and management of the
property of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

Berty Dissanayake Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the corporation shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and function under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testmentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation there remains after
the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities of the
Corporation or for any other purpose, be liable to make any
contribution exceeding the among of scuh membership fees
as may be due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be give or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which,
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper account to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Berty Dissanayake Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and the member of the Board as may be provided
for in the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or  of any body  politic, or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act,  and those claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
20
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Berty Dissanayake Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .