

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of  July 08, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 11.07.2016)
HAND TO STAND FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Hand to Stand Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Dr.) Kavinda Heshan Jayawardana
M.P.  for  Gampaha District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

Hand to Stand Foundation (Incorporation) 1
5
10
15
2—PL 010049—300  (06/2016)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HAND TO STAND FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Hand
to Stand Foundation ” has heretofore been formed in Colombo
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
the objects and matters connected  with the said Association
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said “Hand to Stand Foundation” has
heretofore successfully carried out and transacted the several
objects and matters for which it was established and has
applied to be incorporated and it will be for the public
advantage to grant the application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Hand to Stand
Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the “Hand to
Stand Foundation”  or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate,
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of  the
“Hand to Stand Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as “the
Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and  use a common
seal and  alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to assist the relevant institutions to promote
sustainable development in the country by providing
assistance and opportunities to the under privileged
unemployed persons secure employment;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Hand
to Stand
Foundation.
The general
objects of the
Corporation.
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Hand to Stand Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to assist the relevant institutions to establish and
maintain schools, homes and other organizations that
assist and foster love and provide protection, covering
and education to needy children including the
differently abled;
(c) to assist the relevant institutions to provide relief to
those affected by natural disasters;
(d) to assist the relevant institutions to help the needy
youth by providing them with opportunities to learn
creative arts that would assist in bringing out a
positive change in their mental and physical
wellbeing;
(e) to assist the relevant institutions to organize free
medical camps and clinics and distribution of free
medicine to the needy and under privileged persons;
(f) to assist the relevant institutions to provide land,
housing and schooling facilities to needy families;
(g) to assist the relevant institutions to provide land and
buildings to schools which do not have adequate
infrastructure facilities;
(h) to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,
lectures, discussions, workshops, panel discussion and
other similar activities and to print, publish and
distribute books, journals, bulletins etc. with a view
to promoting the objectives of the Hand to Stand
Foundation; and;
(i) to do all such other acts as may be necessary for the
carrying out of all or any of the aforesaid objects.

<!-- page 4 -->

Hand to Stand Foundation (Incorporation) 3
5
10
15
20
25
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts to borrow or raise money with or without security
to receive or collect grants, donations, to invest its funds, to
erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage employ dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other  provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting
of a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Managing Director, Secretary
and Treasurer and a maximum of seven other Directors elected
in accordance with such rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Directors of the  Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Association holding
office of the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act. Such Board shall hold office
until a Board of Directors is elected in accordance with the
rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of votes of
not less than two-thirds of the members present, to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters and
any other matter in relation to the management of the affairs
of the Corporation and accomplishment of its objects:—
(a) the classification of members and membership fees,
their admission, withdrawal or expulsion from
membership;
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30
35
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Hand to Stand Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) the election of the members of the Board of Directors
and their powers and duties;
(c) the election of office bearers, their term of office,
resignation from, vacation of or removal from office
and their powers and duties;
(d) the procedure to be followed in the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council, the quorum
therefore and the conduct of business;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, including funds.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or repealed at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, testamentary
dispositions, fees,  grants  for donations or contributions in
cash or kind from local or foreign institutions and individuals,
members and non-members.
(2) All monies received shall be deposited in the name of
the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in any
suitable manner as the Board shall determine.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performances and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the
Fund of the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Hand to Stand Foundation (Incorporation) 5
8. All debts and liabilities of the Fund existing on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all debts,
due to subscription and contribution payable to the Fund
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act.
9. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition, trust or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purpose of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same
and in the case of a trust, the Corporation shall deal with it in
the manner provided for by the trust.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall  be fixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence, and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as  mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable
to the Fund.
30
35

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Hand to Stand Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .