

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by the  Hon. (Dr.) (Ms.) Harini Amarasuriya,  M.P.
on 13th of November, 2021
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
——————
——————
[Bill No. 92]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on October 25, 2021)
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SHAILI EDUTAINMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Shaili Edutainment Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SHAILI EDUTAINMENT FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “ Shaili
Edutainment Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of patronage and co-ordination of above
tasks and transacting all matters  connected with said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said F oundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be expedient to grant the said
application for public benifit;
AND WHEREAS it is expected to make youth and children
mentally and physically fit, having capacity to show the
identity of ancient cultural heritage and to grow higher
aesthetic education in the community through creative and
performing activities;
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Shaili Edutainment
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Shaili
Edutainment Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Shaili Edutainment Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued,
with full power and  authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.
Preamble
Short title
Incorporation
of Shaili
Edutainment
Foundation
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to open new avenues for gaming wisdom and to
assist to develop the personality of the children,
elders and differently abled (Hearing impaired,
visually impaired, mentally and physically
unsound) in Sri Lanka through the commencement,
promotion, patronage and co-ordination of
educational creative activities, vocational activities
and performing activities;
(b) to make a background which is suitable for the
development of both mental and physical conditions
of the children, youth, elders and differently abled
as to fit to their requirements;
(c) to train children, youth and the community to
become balanced persons who are contended and
conversant with their own cultural heritage and
identity;
(d) to establish peace among the multiple ethnic groups
in Sri Lanka and to join and to do acts in
collaboration with the other institutions having
similar objects to those of the Corporation including
the object of providing facilities in order to
exchange ideas, knowledge and experience;
(e) to open a National Centre for studies in various fields
for conducting Research, Professional trainings,
workshops and for improving of the creative and
professional performing skills. And either along or
in collaboration of local and International
institution (Approved by University Grant
Commission ) award certificate, diploma and degrees
and prizes in connection therwewith;
5
10
15
20
25
30
General
objects of the
Corporation

<!-- page 4 -->

3Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) to conserve the forklore, to organize the programmes
for exchanging of local and foreign knowledge and
experience which are essential the improvement of
knowledge of children, young and differently abled;
and
(g) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to attainment of the
above objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any engage, employ and
dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Management Council consisting of five
members as may be, provided for in the said rules who shall
be elected in accordance with such rules. The term of office
of the Management Council shall be two years.
(2) Three family members of the late Mr. Wimalasiri de
Mel, the Founder of this Foundation, shall be included in
the above Management Council consisting five members.
(3) The first Management Council shall consist of the
members of the Management Council holding office on the
date of commencement of this Act. An elected or appointed
member of that Management Council shall hold office in
accordance with the rules for the time being.
6. (1) Membership of the Corporation shall consist of
ordinary members and associate members.
HJ
General
powers of the
Corporation
Management
of the
Corporation
Membership
of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
(2) However, those who are not qualified for the
admission as ordinary members and associate members with
some privileges which may be stipulated by the Management
Council subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, may be admitted as collective members;
(3) A separate register shall be maintained for the
associate members and notwithstanding they shall not be
qualified for casting votes at the meetings of the Corporation,
they shall enjoy some privileges as ordinary members do.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members who are qualified for casting
votes, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other written law for the management of the
affairs of the Corporation such as holding meetings, carrying
out its business at such meetings and preparation of Anual
Reports etc. and the accomplishment of its object.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of operation of this
Act shall be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made
under this section in so far as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law and such
rules when made in like manner under the subsection (1), be
altered, amended or rescinded.
(3) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded in like manner under
subsection (2).
(4) The members of Corporation shall always be dubject
to the rules of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law—
(a) to acquire and hold, any property, movable or
immovable which may be conveyed by way of any
purchase, donation, transfer gift, testamentary
disposition or to acquire or hold;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation
Corporation
may hold
movable or
immovable
property

<!-- page 6 -->

5Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
(b) to construct a building in any immovable property
which was transferred to, acquired by or held by the
Corporation; and
(c) to sell, grant, transfer, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same,
subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the time being.
9. It shall be lawful for the Corporation to change any
amount of fee or contribution from its members for the
service, rendered by the Corporation as it deems fit.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor.
(4) In this connection “Qualified Auditor” means –
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such
Institute.
5
10
15
20
25
Power to
charge
contribution
and fees
Accounts of
the
Corporation

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
11. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to  the  Foundation  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.
12. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray and
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act.
13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
14. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the  Corporation and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their  members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation
Limitation of
liability of
members
Property
remaining on
dissolution

<!-- page 8 -->

7Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and a  member of the Board who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
16. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
Seal of the
Corporation

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Shaili Edutainment Foundation (Incorporation)
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING