

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1870$8 - 2014 cQ,s ui 07 jeks i÷od - 2014'07'07
No. 1870/8  -  MONDAY ,  JULY  07,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
UV A   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Pre-childhood Statute of Uva Provincial Council bearing No. 2 of 2014 of the
Provincial Council of the Uva Province
THE above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 19th June 2014 has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 01st of July 2014 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the Public.
R.  A.  H.  A.  S
AMARASINGHE,
Secretary,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
King Street,
Badulla.
27th of June 2014.
PRE-CHILDHOOD  STATUTE  OF  UV A   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  BEARING NO.  2  OF 2014
M
INISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING, LAW AND ORDER, EDUCA TION, LOCAL GOVERNMENT, CULTURAL AFFAIRS, TRANSPORT, LAND,
IRRIGATION, ECONOMIC PROMOTION AND RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITIES DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTIONS
PRE-CHILDHOOD STATUTE OF UV A PROVINCIAL COUNCIL BEARING NO. 2 OF 2014
This is a statute to register, Supervise administer and conduct the day care centers, pre-schools, pre-childhood
development center or with the objectives regarding physical and mental development and security of children below five
years old, that are in function at present or will be started in future in the Uva Province in accordance with the powers vested
to provincial councils through the 13th amendment to the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Also, it’s a statute providing provisions to 2 the Pre-childhood statute of Uva Province bearing No. 05 of 2011.
5 — PG  2095

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
2A
ENACTED BY THE UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
01. This statute may be cited as pre-childhood statute No. 2 of 2014, of the Uva Province whilst it
shall come into operation, with effect from the date of approved of the Governor of Uva Province here-in
after called as “Governor” in this statute.
SECTION  I
OBJECTIVES
02. The common objectives of this charter are the development of childhood during the period
from the age of 3 years to completion of the age of 5 years’ time limit which is considered as the
Pre-schooled period and to guide and show the correct path while the objective of this charter is to fulfill
the aims indicated below :
(1) To enable to obtain experience in association with the faculties and establish an appropriate,
fruitful and a secured environment.
(2) To get used to pleasant speech and to get organized with a good, polite and a complaisant
style of conduct through the day to day activities.
(3) To train good health habits and to give appropriate nourishment to children.
(4) To Supply an environment to grow up and inculcate good qualities.
(5) To give suitable education and render appropriate security to children below 5 years old.
(6) To safe quard the children and secure the rights of the children and execute the laws pertaining
to them.
(7) To develop the mentality and personality of children.
(8) To render an opportunity to physical and cyclometer skill development of children.
(9) To develop wise and creative skills.
(10) To guide in conserving the environment and to appreciate the environnment and to love and
enjoy the environment through it.
(11) To render the ability to face challenging occasion.
(12) To build a friendly environment to get trained to work in mutual life.
(13) To allow the child to live happily and in enjoyment during the basic childhood.
(14) To enthuse and wake up the talents and skills of the children of this age and to effect an
environment to their future education.
(15) To render a strong foundation to their future education.
Title in brief and
date of
operation.
Objectives.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
PART  II
ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION
03. (1) Uva Provincial pre-childhood development authority shall be appointed called here-in-
after as “The Authority” to executive the provisions of this statute.
(2) The authority shall be a cooperation that will have continuous life and a general rubber seal,
and it can file cases by its name give to it the section (1) and cases can be filed against it vice-versa.
(a) The intention of the authority will be, to develop the pre-childhood education in the Uva
Province through evaluation and management of the pre-childhood education.
(3) The following duties should be carried out by the authority to achieve the objectives.
(a) To provide guidance and donations to promote development procedures of Uva Provincial
Pre-childhood education.
(b) To Register pre-childhood education centers, to supervise and to manage the procedures
of them.
(c) To enact rules and regulations regard charges of the students of pre-childhood education
centers.
(d) To decide educational qualifications for teachers of pre-childhood education centers.
(e) To train the teachers of the pre-childhood education development centers.
(f) To form up teacher training institutions to train the teachers of pre-childhood education
centers and to issue with certificates to those who completed the training programme
successfully.
(g) To hold in service seminars relevant to reformations of pre-childhood education.
(h) To decide the qualities regarding administration and management of pre-childhood
education centers conducted by local government authorities and other special
organizations.
(i) To give information to the public about the importance of the pre-childhood education
development.
(j) To take necessary steps to promote the procedures of pre-childhood education in the Uva
Province even though it is not mentioned strictly as above.
(4) The authority might have powers normally needed to perform its duties and the powers
mentioned below too.
(a) To collect rates or money for the service rendered by the authority.
(b) To provide fund, utensils and other donations to enable to perform the duties of the
authority.
Appointment of
a Competent
authority.
Aim of the
authority.
Duties of the
authority.
Powers of the
authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
4A
(c) To decide the qualities of performing duties of the officers and employees of the authority,
performing duties according to the decided qualities and to evaluate them.
(d) Sign the necessary contracts to do authorities work.
(e) To enact regulations regarding the general administration of the authority.
(f) To do everything that needed or effected to perform the duties of the authority.
04.  (a) A competent authority shall be appointed a person under the name or official name, here-
in-after revered as the competent authority.
(b) Such person must have a degree of an university and a post graduate degree too.
(c) Implementing the rules and regulations and performing the tasks mentioned therein to
achieve the intention of this statute is the responsibility of the competent authority.
05.  (a) The competent authority shall carry out his duties according to the general and special
orders of the secretary of the education ministry of Uva Province herein after called as
“The Secretary” and the minister in-charge of the education ministry of Uva Province
hereinafter called as “The Minister”.
(b) The competent authority who is appointed under the section shall hold the post for a
period of three years from the date of appointment unless passed away, resigned or due to
the dismission from the post.
(c) The competent authority has to implement and fulfill the tasks could be assigned by the
advisory board.
(d) The competent authority could be dismissed from the post by the minister, showing
reason under sections 4(a).
(e) Under the Hon. Governors approved and the assent of the Chief Minister a compensation
decided by the minister could be paid to the competent authority for the service he
rendered.
(f) The post of the competent authority will be vacated by death, or dismissed from the post
or resigning by submitting a letter to the minister.
(g) Unless dismissed from the post under section 5(b), the particular person could be appointed
as the competent authority.
(h) If any vacancy raised a member of the advisory board could be appointed by the minister
to perform duties in the post till appointing a person under sections 4(a).
06. Under mentioned duties and tasks and other relevant duties and tasks mentioned in this
statute should be carried out by the competent authority and the ought to be provided with powers to
implement them by this statute regarding pre-childhood development centers, early childhood development
centers pre-schools, day care centers or a center conducted for physical and mental development and
security of children below five years old in the Uva Province.
(a) To enter into the Pre-childhood development centers, examine the premises and relevant
letters and documents, during reasonable house.
(b) To introduce teaching methods and instruments in the centers on behalf of children.
Appointment of
a competent
authority.
Tasks of the
competent
authority.
Evaluation and
administration
Duration of the
Post.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
(c) To question and obtain explanation from owners or those who are maintaining them or
anyone who is connected to the Pre-childhood development center at the time in
administrative work and to ask to provide details.
(d) To requester any Pre-childhood development centers on request or to turn down (reject)
such request by showing cause.
(e) To examine and if required to take into custody all documents, registers, books, notes
reports and files etc., in any Pre-childhood development center.
(f) To take steps to suspend dismiss from or stop the services of those who are engaged in
teaching in any Pre-childhood development center who fail to prove, their required
qualifications.
(g) To order the institution or the owner or such Pre-childhood development center to grant
the minimum facilities ordered through this statute to children studying in such
Pre-childhood development centers.
(h) To suspend or stop any, maintained Pre-childhood development center after an
investigation being held if not maintained according to the Provisions enacted in this
charter.
(i) To grade the Pre-childhood development centers considering the services, service facilities
and staff maintained by such Pre-childhood development center.
(j) To hold training programmes, seminars and workshops to teachers who teach in such
Pre-childhood development centers and the staff and to order the Pre-school teachers
who teach in Pre-schools and there connected personnel there to participate in them.
(k) To register private educational institutions those are conducting training programmes for
teachers of the centers and order the institutions when necessary.
(l) To collect charges for services rendered under this statute.
(m) To subject Pre-childhood development centers to supervision and investigation from time
to time.
(n) To introduce and order to use the books, documents and forms that should be maintained
by Pre-childhood development centers.
07. The Authority duties, tasks vested to him under any provision out of the provisions enacted
in this statute.
08. Any powers duties, tasks vested to self or powers apportioned can be vested to any other
officer of the local governemnt services under the approval of the governor, by the competent authority
after obtaining the approval of the secretary.
P
ART  III
UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL PRE-CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT FUND
09. The authority has to form up a fund named “Uva Provincial Pre-childhood development fund”
and it is to be maintained as a separate account of the Uva Province Provincial Council.
1. (a) The provisions of part three of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987 shall effect with
said fund.
(b) All money granted time to time to the authority by the provincial council, money received
by the authority while implementing the powers, duties and tasks of the authority other
donations and grants should be deposited into the account of the authority.
Competent
authority can
vest powers.
Fund can be used
for

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
6A
2. The fund can be utilized to achieve the intention of the authority or under any provisions of
this statute or to implement the powers duties and tasks vested to it or for the progress of the
authority.
3. Keeping accounts regarding al1 correspondence and income and expenditure for every
financial year should be maintained by the authority and an account statement should be
prepared including every details with complete statistics according to the orders given by
the minister.
4. The financial year of the authority would be from 1st January to 31st December.
(1) Within 03 months after ending the financial year, all accounts of the authority should be
produced to the auditor general for auditing.
(2) The auditor general has to audit the accounts of the authority every year.
(3) Also, the Auditor General has to submit a report including the following facts after auditing.
that is to say whether —
(a) All the details received by him.
(b) The report is prepared enable to understand correctly and impartially and
(c) Important matters found while auditing that could be taken into consideration of the
provincial council regarding any matter or the activities and accounts of the authority
in accordance with the opinion of the auditor general.
5. The auditor general has to send the audited accounts to the Chairman of the authority along
with his report.
6. Soon after the authority received the aforesaid audited accounts, auditors report and the
report regarding duties and tasks performed in the year relevant to the report should be
forwarded to the minister and then the minister has to take action to submit the copies of them
to the board of ministers and to the provincial council before the completion of twelve
months of the relevant financial year.
S
ECTION  IV
APPOINTING OF ADVISORY COMMITTEES IN RESPECT OF PRE-CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTER
10. (1) An advisory committee of a Pre-childhood development center consisting of the following
members and hereinafter called as the advisory committee shall be appointed by the Governor.
(a) The Pre-childhood development Center advisory committee herein after identified as members
appointed as ex-officio.
1. Uva Province Provincial secretary of Education as the chairman.
2. Uva Province Provincial Director of Education or delegate.
3. Provincial Director of Health service.
4. Provincial Commissioner of Probation and child -care services.
5. Commissioner of Local Government of Uva.
6. Provincial Director of Social Services.
7. The competent authority as the secretary and
Fund can be
utilized for
Accounts of the
authority.
Financial year.
Auditing.
Audit and
account reports
to be submitted
to the minister.
Advisory
committee of
Pre-childhood
development
Center.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
(b) Hereinafter appointed and called as delegates the personnel named.
1. A delegate of the office of National children’s Secretariat recommended by the director.
2. Two Pre-school teachers named by the Local Government Commissioner.
3. Two Delegates who work relevant to the subject of Pre-childhood development
belonging to voluntary organizations to represent as one delegate from each
organization who are selected by the District secretary is way of representing the two
districts.
4. Two delegates who have enough experience related to the subject of Pre-childhood
matters.
5. A delegate who has an experience or qualified or else a skillfull person in the legal field.
11. (1) Out of the members appointed as ex-officio the Provincial Secretary of education should be
the president of the Committee, while the competent authority appointed by the governor should be the
secretary of the Committee.
(2) The term of office should be limited to three years.
(3) The quorum for the meeting of the advisory committee should consist of seven members.
(4) Unless a member vacates the earlier post due to death, resignation or dismissal, such member
shall function in the post for 3 years.
(5) If an appointed members is absent for three consecutive meetings without a reason, considered,
as valued by the advisory committee, such member shall be Resignation treated as vacated his post and a
performing officer should be appointed by the Governor on the information given by the secretary of the
committee.
(6) An appointed member of the advisory committee can be ejected from his post at any time by
the Governor, by issuing a written notice.
(7) Any appointed member is able to resign from is by means of a letter addressed to the Governor
stating that he needs to resign from his post. and if the Governor accepted the letter he can do so.
(8) In an instance where a member shall demise, released or ejected from the post and/or the post
fallen vacant due to other reasons, the Governor shall take    into consideration the provisions enacted in
paragraph 7(1) (A) of the charter and shall appoint a successor. A successor appointed in lieu of such
member shall hold the post for the unexpended balance period of the post held by his predecessor.
(9) A member nominated once for the committee could be nominated once again.
12. (1) The advisory  committee shall prepare the work procedures in regard to maintenance of the
committee according to the other provisions of the statute.
(2) The advisory committee shall meet at least once in three months.
That the
Competent
authority can
delegate powers.
Duration of the
post.
Losing the post.
Ejecting from
the post.
The advisory
committee shall
prepare the work
procedures.
Meetings of the
committee.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
8A
13. If any person —
(A) Is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or ceases being a citizen.
(B) Is stated being bankrupted or insane under any laws or regulations of Sri Lanka or any
other country.
(C) Is stated too have been punished or is being punished with a term of imprisonment by the
jurisdiction of Sri Lanka or any other country.
(D) Is subject to any monetary or any other connection which is harmful in execution of his
duties as a member of the advisory committee.
(E) Has been punished in respect of any punishable offence under this statute or ineligible to
be appointed as a member of the advisory committee.
14. Any decision or action taken by the advisory committee shall not be cancelled owing to the
fact that a vacancy or a deficiency in appointing a member exists thereon.
15. Members of the committee should be paid with an allowance decided by the chief minister with
the approval of the Governor.
16. The advisory committee shall perform the following duties and tasks.
(a) Providing needed assistance and guidance to promote the quality of the pre-childhood
development education.
(b) Take relevant decision on principle in connection with the Pre-childhood development
centers, preparation of orders to execute them and submit such orders to the Governor.
(c) Identify the duties that shoud be fulfilled by all section relevant to the work of the
Pre-childhood development centers and prepare a work strategy, advise review and
supervise and issue instructions from time to time.
(d) Supervise the activities of the registered Pre-childhood development centers situated in
the administrative area of Provincial Council order a syllabus relevant to the subjects in
the Pre-childhood development centre recuse and take decisions on principle relevant to
them.
(e) Deciding the minimum educational qualification, the teachers of the development centers
should have.
(f) Identity the children who need special education prepare future programmes to suit them
make aware of the parents of those children and take steps to perform the required action
for the development of the children.
(g) Take decision on the action to be taken in respect of the Pre-childhod development centres
which perform activities contrary to the provisions of this charter.
(h) Find out about the appeal received in regard to the registration Pre-childhood development
centres and submit recommendation to the competent authority.
(i) Preparing needed provisions and issuing instructions to achieve the goal of this statute.
(j) Deciding procedures in regard with responsibilities of the government officers who perform
duties in the province connected with the subject of Pre-childhood.
Disqualifications.
The duties and
tasks of the
advisory
committee.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
17. The Advisory committee should prepare a syllabus to be utilize by all Pre-childhood
development centres of Uva Province on accordance with the guidance of the National Education institute
and it should be activated in all Pre-childhood development centre of the province after it being accepted
by the Governor.
S
ECTION  V
STANDARDS FOR THE PRE-CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS
18. (1) The Pre-childhood development centres in function and to be opened newly should
consist of the under mentioned basic and minimum standards.
(a) Location of the centre should be without any natural disturbances and destructions.
(b) Allocating of at least 10 square feet of space in the building for one child Should.
(c) There should be latrine system constructed to consist at least one latrine for every 25
children.
(d) Out of the extent of room square feet of the building the doors and windows should
consist of at least 1/7 of the extent of ventilation provided and electrical fittings should be
fixed assuring the security.
(e) The precincts of the Pre-childhood development centres should be well secured by means
of security fences or security parapet walls and security arrangements should be made on
behalf of children.
(f) Maintain a first aid box on instruction of the competent authority and the utensils and
goods should be with quality and health care.
(g) A play compound should be there with sufficient space for chidren to play in every
Pre-childhood development centre.
(h) There must be pure drinking water and sufficient water for other needs two.
(i) There should be a teaching staff according to the proportion of 20 : I in case of general
children and 5 : I in respect of special children in each and every Pre-childhood development
centre.
(j) The garden or the ground of every Pre-childhood development centre should be prepared
in a pleasant environment consisting of basic sports facilities as ordered by the competent
authority.
(k) Should possess required furniture sufficiently and maintain them in a way to bring about
the mental pleasure of the children.
(l) There should be an approprite place prepared to perform religious rites.
(2) A Pre-childhood development centre would not be established in a harmful or dangerous
environment or in a place within 100 meters from a harmful and dangerous area.
6 — PG  2095

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
10A
19. Owners or the administrators of the cetres in function in the province on the date this statute
is effective, should take action to conduct the centers according to the standards mentioned in the section
17 above within period of one year.
20. Quality of facilities in a premises should be devided by regulations for the centers in function
or to be established in future.
P
ART  VI
REGISTRA TION OF CENTRES
21. After enforcing of this statute, it is treated as all the registrations of the centers functioning in
the Uva Province were cancelled and those centers should be re-registered under the authority.
22. No pre-childhood development centres or day care centres or any other centers conduced for
the physical and mental development and security of children below give years old, unless having a permit
issued under the statute after the enactment of the same.
23. Within there months after the enactment and gazette this statute the owners or managers or
administrators of every centres must request the competent authority to get registered their centres
maintained in the province.
24. If  any manager or an owner of a Pre-childhood development center or Day Care centre has
failed to apply for registration within three months after this charter in being declared as a gazette notification
such Pre-childhood development centre of the Day Care Centre should be registered by the competent
authority on application submitted with reasons which seem to be justifiable and fair and taking into
consideration the expended time any by charging an additional fee.
25. Centres begining after the implementation of the statute should be applied to the competent
authority and get registered.
26. (1) The registration fee decided by the competent authority should be paid by the applicant for
registration.
(2) The required qualification and other needs relevant specimens and rate should be declared by
the competent authority from time to time.
(3) Private institutions established in the province those conduct courses or training programmes
regarding Pre-childhood development should be registered under the competent authority according to
the regulations.
(4) The competent authority should have powers to extend the time of registration and to collect
an additional fee or penalty for the delayed period of registration.
27. (1) All institutions maintained in the province with an intention of executing any kind of
education activity for the children below five years old are considered as a Pre-childhood development
centre or a Day care centre.
(2) Day care centers for special children below five years old conducted under the social service
department and Pre-childhood development centres conducted under the department of probation should
be get registered under this statute.
Standards of
centres
established
before the
effective date of
the statute.
Re-registration
of centers.
Requesting
within three
months
It is required to
apply for
registration of
Pre-childhood
development
centers or Day
Care Centres.
Registration of
new centers.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
28. After the consideration of any request and detail or document submitted to the competent
authority under the sub section (22).
(a) If the applicant has the needed qualifications to conduct center and,
(b) Only if satisfied with the facilities mentioned in the section (17) are supplied for the
premises maintained at present or expected to maintain in future the applicant should be
registered by him.
29. Any Pre-childhood development center or a Day Care Center that is established or maintained
by any one violating or contrary to the above maintained provisions of this charter shall be treated as an
offence under this statute while such offender or misdemeanor shall pay a fine not more than Rs. 500/-
(Rs. Five Hundred) every month such offence is committed.
30. If and when an application is tendered for registration of any educational institute which is not
maintained under the name of the Pre-childhood development center according to the provisions contained
in the statute by the date of enactment of the statute and in accordance with the item 21 of this statute the
competent auhority has the power to refuse or reject registration after informing the reason for such refusal
or rejection.
(1) In every instance of such refusal or rejection, the reason for such refusal or rejection shall
be informed to the applicant of such owner or manager within a month of such application
has been tendered.
(2) The owner or manager of such Pre-childhood development center can submit an appeal
too the secretary within 10 days of such refusal or rejection.
(3) On receipt of such an appeal the government should forward it to the advisory committee
for obtaining their observations and recommendations to take a decision about the appeal.
(4) The decision of Pre-childhood development center taken by the advisory committee shall
be the final decision.
31. A register should be maintained of all Pre-childhood development center with the details of the
names of the Pre-childhood, addresses and the names and addresses of those who maintain such Pre-
childhood development center with any other details decided as required by the competent authority of
the Pre-childhood development center with any there details decoded as required by the competent authority
of the Pre-childhood development centre established by the time this statute being enacted by the competent
authority and registered under the provisions contained in the statute after the effective date of the
provisions contained in the statute and newly registered Pre-childhood development centre after the
effective date of the provisions contained in the statute.
P
ART  VII
QUALIFICATIONS AND TRAINING FOR RESOURCE PERSONS OF PRE-CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTER
32. (1) The teachers instructors administrators, assistants and others who perform duties relted to
knowledge skill, attitude and intelligence of children in centers on the effective date of this statute and
herein after called as “Resource Persons” should have passed at least six subjects including Mother
Language and Mathematics at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) examination held by
the department of examination and should have followed a training course of Pre-childhood development
education in an institute accepted by the advisory committee.
(2) All “Resource Persons” serving in Pre-childhood development center statute after the effective
date of this statute should have passed the G.C.E. (Adv. Level) examination held by the department of
examinations.
Rejecting the
registration.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
12A
33. All resource persons who serve in Pre-childhood development centers at the effective date of
this statute but have not completed the above qualification in the G.C.E.(O/L) examination must pass the
said examination within two years from the effective date of the statute and must follow and pass course
(recommended by the competent authority) and conducted by an accepted establishment regarding.
34. The competent authority has the power to order to relinquish or quie from the duties of
Pre-childhood development centers who do not possess the required qualifications and who ail  to acquire
the basic qualification during the required time ordered by the competent authority. Breaking such an order
by any resource person in an effect wonder this statute.
35. On the reason that unable to render his/her service parralally to the physical and mental
development of chidren in the age, of pre-childhood or completing 55 years in age the advisory committee
can ask resource person to resign the post or to go on pension.
36. (1) all reserve persons who are engaged in educational duties in any Pre-childhood development
center by the effective  date of this statute should apply for registration within 6 months of the effective
date of this charter.
(2) The reserve persons on Pre-childhood development center who apply thus shall be registered
in the relevant register provided they have fulfilled the qualifications according to the provisions contained
in the statute while an identity card should also be issued to them.
(3) Any person who is not registered under the competent authority must not work as a resource
person in any center  and a person who breaks this rule considered as an offender.
37. All training institutions which are engaged in duties pertaining to training reaches of Pre-
childhood development centres in the Uva Province (except the national level government institution)
should get registered while they should obtain a certificate of registration from the competent authority.
Maintaining such an institution without a certificate is an offence.
38. The competent authority should prepare a systematic way of work every year relevant to
teacher training in Pre-childhood development centres and submit it to the provincial advisory committee
for approval.
39. The competent authority has the power to order resource persons in Pre-childhood development
centers conducted by the Provincial advisory committee who do not participate in training programmes, to
preclude serving in Pre-childhood development centers and make them to relinquish their work or post.
40. The resource persons in Pre-childhood development centers should follow and participate in
training courses continuously which are scheduled according to time frames ordered by the advisory
committee.
41. The competent authority should prepare a systematic plan with the instruction of the advisory
committee for awareness of the parents of children of Pre-childhood development centers.
S
ECTION  VIII
GENERAL  RULES / PROVISIONS
42. (1) If it is scheduled through this statute that orders should be made or powers should be
vested by this statute to make or on all matters that may be required by the statute or in that regard, the
Minister is able to make orders.
Registration of
vesture persons.
If not registered
no one can be a
resource person.
power to dismiss
untrained
persons.
Training is a
must.
The minister is
able to make
orders.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'07
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.07.2014
(2) Each and every order made by the Minister should be effective from the date of publishing in
the gazette notification or at a later date genuinely indicated in that order.
(3) Each and every order made by the Minister and published as a gazette notification shall be
submitted to the Provincial Council as soon as possible for approval. Any order that is not approved by the
Provincial Council can be treated as cancelled without being subject to any harm for the actions taken prior
to such approval or cancellation.
(4) Any order treated as cancelled shall be published in the gazette as a notification.
(5) After approved by the provincial council any regulation or order prepared by the minister
under the sub-section (1) above should be empowered as enacted by this statute.
43. Officers and staff of the authority should be considered as government servants according to
the code of penal.
44. The authority should be considered as a scheduled authority under the regulations of the Act
of bribery and it must perform duties according to the regulations.
45. If the minister considers that performance of a particular person fulfill the duties contained in
this statute his service can be obtained for a scheduled and limited period whild an allowance ordered by
the Governor can be paid.
46. On the recommendations of the advisory committee and the approval of the competent authority
an annual allowance can be paid registered Pre-childhood development centers.
47. If the Governor or the Ministry or the advisory committee of the secretary has given any order
instruction or any guidance the competent authority should comply to such work and if any report or
documents is requested to be given the competent authority should also take action to supply them.
S
ECTION  IX
OFFENCES  AND  PUNISHMENTS
48. It shall be an offence to violate, misconduct, or breach orders or provisions contained and
provided under this charter and disturb and interrupt in performing duties of persons who have the power
to effect such provisions or orders also shall be an offence under this statute.
49. Anyone who commits such offence and found to be quality after a brief court case such
person shall be subject to a fine not exceeding Rs. 10,000/- (Rs. Ten Thousand) in valid Sri Lanka Currency
and/or a term of imprisonment a period not more than 6 months subject to one or both punishments.
50. The competent authority or the officer who has been vested powers in writing by him can be
appeared in presence a courts or to give evidence while implementing regulations (or any sub-Section
enacted under it) or trying to achieve the fool of this statute.
51. Person or persons who is/are implementing the tasks of this statute or appointed or nominated
for should be considered as government servants.
52. At the same time of implementation of this statute the Pre-childhood statute No. 05 of 2011 will
be cancelled.
07-637
Centers can be
paid an
allowance
annually.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Violating
regulations and
disturbing duties.
Punishments for
offenders.