

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2088$49 - 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 12 jeks nodod - 2018'09'12
No. 2088/49 -  WEDNESDAY  SEPTEMBER  12,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
CENTRAL   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG  4214 — 87  (09/2018)
Co-operative Societies Statute No. 06 of 2018 of the Central Provincial Council
 
A statute to provide for the development of co-operative societies, and matters relating to the establishment, registration
and administration of Co-operative Societies and to provide for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto and to
withdraw the amended Co operative Society Statute No. 10 of 1990 amended by the Central Provincial Cooperative
Society Statute (Amendment) No. 04 of 1993. This Statute is in compliance with the Co-operative Societies law No. 05
of 1972
Be it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of the Republic of Sri Lanka as follows
01. This statute may be cited as the Co operative Societies Statute No. 06 of 2018
CHAPTER  I
Appointments of Registrar, Deputy, Senior Assistant, and Assistant Registrars and their
powers
02. (1) There may be appointed a registrar of Co-operative Societies for Central Province, Sri
Lanka and such number of Deputy, Senior Assistant, or Assistant Registrars as may be
necessary
(2) The Minister of Co-operative Development, Central Province, may by general or special
Order, confer on any Deputy, Senior Assistant or Assistant registrar all or any of the
powers of a Registrar under this Statute or under any rules made there under
(3) The person appointed by the Governor of Central Province to be or to act for the time
being as, the Commissioner of Co-operative Development shall have and may exercise
the same powers as are vested in the Registrar of Co-operative Societies by this Statute and
by any rules made or deemed to be made there under.
Short title
Appointments of
Registrar, Deputy,
Senior Assistant,
and Assistant
Registrars and
powers of
Commissioner of
Co-operative
Development and
the persons
appointed to
assist the
Commissioner.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
2A
(4) Each of the persons appointed to assist the commissioner of Co-operative Development
shall have and may exercise such of the powers of the Registrar under this Law and under
any rules made or deemed to be made there under as may be specified by the Minister in any
general or special order made under this Section.
CHAPTER II
Registration
03. (1) Subject to the provisions hereinafter contained,
(a) a society which has as its object the providing of specific services for the economic,
social or cultural welfare of its members in accordance with co-operative principles,
(b) A society consisting of registered Societies as members established for the purpose
of facilitating the operations of a Society referred to in paragraph (a) ,
May be registered under this Statute with or without limited liability. Provided that
the liability of a society of which a member is a registered Society shall be limited.
04. (1) (a) No society shall be registered,
when in a members only situation, if it does not consist of at least twenty five
persons each of whom is above the age of eighteen years and resides or is employed
or owns immovable property within the proposed area of operations of the Society
seeking registration and are capable of utilizing the services rendered by the Society,
or
(b) If it consists only of registered Societies and if it does not have at least five members,
(c) If the Society has not acquired a report and a recommendation as ordered by the
rules
(i) as to the activities proposed to be engaged by the society are economically
appropriate,
(ii) as to the proposed by-laws of the Society does not comply with this statute
or the provisions of the rules made there under,
(d) If the proposed by-laws have not been approved at a general meeting duly summoned
for the said purpose in the presence of the Registrar or his representative,
(e) If the proposed by-laws does not include a provision that at least two of the
committee members should be in between the ages of eighteen to thirty five years
and that once elected to the committee, one is not eligible to continue as a committee
member on exceeding 35 years of age within the term of office mentioned in by-
laws,
(f) If each member signing the application for registration has not completed his dues
regarding his membership,
Societies which
may be registered
Conditions of
Registration

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(g) If the society has failed to provide all information ordered by the Registrar for
registration purposes,
(h) If have failed to pay the registration fee as required by rules,
(i) If other qualifications to be fulfilled to contest for elections and to get appointed
for posts at the completion of membership process as mentioned in the by-laws are
not prescribed in by-laws,
(j) If it is not indicated in the by-laws that the committee shall act according to the
National Co-operative Policy Statement and utility codes on good governance,
(2) (a) If the rules and conditions stated under sub Sections e, I and j of Subsection 1 has
not been included in a by-law registered under a previous Act or Statute, the Registrar
shall order the Secretaries and Committees of Societies to include them in by-
laws, and the Secretaries and Committees shall act accordingly.
(b) The Registrar may decide whether the conditions stated in the provisions for the
duties under this Section has been fulfilled where there is an ambiguity, and his
decision shall be considered final.
(c) The Sinhala name of each limited liability Society registered under this statute
shall begin with the Sinhala word for word ‘Limited’. The respective word in Tamil
or English shall be a part of the Tamil or English name.
05. (1) For the purpose of registration an application shall be made to the Registrar.
(2) The application shall be signed -
(a) In the case of a society of which no member is a registered society, by at least
twenty five persons qualified in accordance with the requirements of Section 4 (1);
and
(b) In the case of a society of which a member is a registered society, by a duly
authorized person on behalf of every such registered Societies,
(3) The application shall be accompanied by
(a) two copies of the proposed by laws;
(b) a capability report relevant to the economic activities proposed to be involved by
the Society as per the 4.1 (c);
(c) Certified copies of the minutes of the meeting at which the proposal to register the
society was approved, attendance sheet, minutes of the meeting in which the by-
laws was approved
(d)  A letter from the committee upholding the payment of membership fees by the members
signing the application and that money is in the possession of the committee.
Application for
registration

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
4A
06. (a) If the Registrar is satisfied that a Society has complied with the provisions of this Law
and the rules, that the activity in which the society proposes to engage is economically
feasible, and that its proposed by-laws are not contrary to this Law or to the rules, he
may, if he thinks fit, register the society and its by-laws. An Appeal in accordance
with such rules as may be made in that behalf shall lie to the Minister against the
refusal of the Registrar to register any society.
(b) The Societies shall conduct financial services and gold pawning services according
to co-operative regulations or as ordered by the Registrar under the laws and regulations
existing at the time If the provisions have been made to conduct above services by
the registered by-laws.
07. (1) A Certificate of registration signed by the registrar shall be conclusive evidence that
the society therein mentioned is duly registered, unless it is proved that the registration
of the society has been cancelled.
(2) A certificate of registration should be issued by the registrar once a society is
registered under Section 6.
08. (1) Any registered Society may, subject to this Statute and the rules made there under,
amend its by-laws, including the by law which declares the name of the society.
(2) (a) No amendment which changes the name of a society shall be valid until that amendment
has been registered under this statute for which purpose two copies of the amendment
shall be forwarded to the Registrar.
(b) Any amendment regarding by-laws of a registered society shall not be registered
unless accompanied by a report stated in section 4 (1) (c), (ii)
(3) If the Registrar is satisfied that any amendment of the by-laws is not contrary to this
Statute or to the rules, he may, if he thinks fit, register the amendment. An appeal in
accordance with such rules as may be made in that behalf shall lie to the Minister
against the refusal of the Registrar to register any amendment of any
by-law.
(4) An amendment, which changes the name of a society shall not affect any right or
obligations of the society or of any of its members or past members, and any legal
proceedings pending may be continued by or against the society under its new name.
(5) Where the Registrar registers an amendment of the by-laws of a registered society, he
shall issue to the society a copy of the amendment certified by him, which shall be
conclusive evidence of the fact that the amendment has been dully registered.
(6) In this section “amendment” includes the making of a new by-law and the variation or
rescission of a by-law.
09. (1) A registered society may, with the previous approval of the Registrar and by a
resolution passed by a two-thirds majority of the members or delegates present and
voting at a general meeting of the society -
(a) transfer its assets and liabilities in whole or in part to any other registered society; or
(b) Divide it into two or more societies.
Registration
Evidence of
registration
Amendment of
the by-laws of a
registered Society
Amalgamation,
division and
transfer of assets
and liabilities of
registered
societies

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(2) Any two or more registered societies may, with the previous approval of the Registrar
and by a resolution passed by a two-thirds majority of the members or delegates
present and voting at a general meeting of each such society, amalgamate themselves
and form a new society.
(3) The resolution of a registered society under Subsection (1) or Subsection (2) shall
contain all particulars of the transfer, division or amalgamation as case may be.
(a) If a recommendation report on the economic feasibility of proposed transfer,
division or combining has not been obtained from a person or institution specified
by the regulations;
(b) When the certificate of registration has been divided among certain societies, or
has been combined with other societies, if a report has not been obtained from an
institution for the duties of Section 4 or a designated person stating that the by-
laws of those societies are compliant with a regulation made under the provisions
of  this statute;
The Registrar shall not give permission to a society to transfer its assets and liabilities
to another society, divide the society into two or more societies, or combine with
another society.
(4) Where a registered society has passed any such resolution, it shall give notice
thereof in writing to all its members and creditors and, notwithstanding any by-laws
or contract to the contrary, any member or creditor shall during the period of one
month of the date of service of the notice upon him, have the option of withdrawing
his shares, deposits or loans, as the case may be.
(5) Any member or creditor who does not exercise his option within the period specified
in Subsection (4) shall be deemed to have assented to the proposals contained in
the resolution.
(6) Where a resolution passed by a registered society under this section involves the
transfer of any assets and liabilities, the resolution shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in any law for the time being in force be a sufficient conveyance to vest
the assets and liabilities in the transferee without any further assurance.
10. (1) Where the whole of the assets and liabilities of a registered society are transferred
to another registered society in accordance with the provisions of Section 9, the
registration of the first mentioned society shall stand cancelled and that society
shall be deemed to have been dissolved and shall cease to exist as a corporate body.
(2) When two or more registered societies are amalgamated into a new society in
accordance with the provisions of Section 9, the registration of each of the
amalgamating societies shall stand cancelled on the registration of the new society
and each such society shall be deemed to have been dissolved and shall cease to
exist as a corporate body.
(3) Where a registered society divides itself into two or more societies in accordance
with the provisions of Section 9, the registration of that society shall stand cancelled
on the registration of the new societies, and that society shall be deemed to have
been dissolved and shall cease to exist as a corporate body.
Cancellation of
registration
certificates of
registered
societies in
certain cases.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
6A
CHAPTER III
Members of registered societies and their rights and liabilities
11. (1) No member of a registered society shall exercise the rights of a member unless or until
he has made such payment to the society in respect of membership or acquired such
interest in the society, as may be prescribed by the rules or by - laws.
(2) When the liability of the members of a society is limited, liability of any member who
is not a registered society shall be limited to a maximum of one fifth of the share capital
of the society as ordered by the regulations.
(3) The minimum value of a share of a registered society shall be not less than Rs.100.00.
The value of a share may be increased as agreed at a general assembly. A share may
be purchased with a single payment or by paying not less than ten percent of the
share price and paying the balance within one year.
(4) (a) A member who has paid the value of a share in full and whose membership is more
than one year shall be considered a full member. A member shall not exercise the
right to vote and right to be elected to an office until he receives the full membership.
(b) However this shall not effect persons applying to the Registrar for registering a
society a new under the procedure specified by Sections 4(1)(a), 4(1)(b), 5(1) and
(2) of this statute.
(5) A member receives the right to vote in any meeting and to be elected to an office,
only after obtaining the full membership.
(6) A person who is elected as a member of the Parliament, Municipal Council, Town
Council or Provincial Council becomes non-eligible to be elected as a member of
the Committee or to hold the membership of the committee any longer.
(7) If a person, at the date of appointment, holds the position of Chairman in another
registered society that has other societies as its members, becomes ineligible to
be appointed to the post of the chairman of a society which has different objectives
to the objectives of the aforesaid society.
12. (1) A registered society may admit any individual who enters in to an agreement to
carry out commercial activities as per the by-laws of the society as an associate
member
(2) An associate member shall not be entitled to any share, in any form whatsoever, in
the assets or profits of the society, or any vote in the conduct of the affairs of the
society.
13. The minority or non-age of any person duly admitted as a member of any registered
society shall not debar that person from executing any instrument or giving any
acquaintance necessary to be executed or given under this Law or the rules made
there under, and shall not be a ground for invalidating or avoiding any contract
entered into by any such person with the society.
And any such contract entered into by any such person with the society, whether as
principal or as surety, shall be enforceable at law by or against such person
notwithstanding his minority or non-age.
Members not to
exercise rights till
due payments
made
Method of
Payment for
Buying Shares
Qualifications for
Voting
Disqualifications
Disqualifications
for being
appointed as
Chairman
Associate
members
Contracts made
with societies by
members who are
minors

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
14. The subsequent discovery, of any defect in the appointment of, or of any
disqualification for election of, any officer of a registered society shall not be a
ground for invalidating or avoiding any contract entered into by such officer on
behalf of such society.
15. No member of any primary society shall have more than one vote in the conduct of
the affairs of the society:
Provided that in the case of an equality of votes the chairman shall have a casting
vote.
16. (1) No member of any primary society shall at any meeting of the society exercise his
vote except in person:
Provided, however, that voting through delegates at any meeting of the society may
be allowed where it is so provided under the by-laws of the society.
(2) A registered society which is a member of any other registered society may appoint
any one of its members for the purpose of voting in the conduct of the affairs of
such other registered society.
(3) the elections of registered Co-operative societies shall be conducted according to
the regulations of this statute imposed by the Minister.
17. (1) The transfer of the share or other interest of a member or past member or deceased
member in the capital of a registered society shall be subject to such conditions as
to maximum holding as may be prescribed by this statute or by the rules.
(2) In the case of a society registered with unlimited liability, a member shall not transfer
any share held by him or his interest in the capital of the society or any part thereof,
unless
(a) he has held such share or interest for not less than one year; and
(b) the transfer is made to the society, or to a member of the society, or to a person
whose application for membership has been accepted by the committee
CHAPTER IV
Duties of Registered Societies
18. Every registered society shall have an address registered in accordance with the
rules, to which all notices and communications may be sent, and shall within
seven days of any change of that address notify the Registrar of such change.
19. (1) Every registered society shall keep 5 copies of this statute and of the rules and of
its by-laws and a list of its members open to inspection, free of charge, at all
reasonable times at the registered address of the society.
(2) The list must include the member’s
(a) Name, Membership No.,N.I.C. No.,address and occupation
(b) Date of registration
(c) Date of loss of membership
(d) Reasons for the loss of membership
Contracts by
officers of
societies
V otes of members
Manner of
exercising votes
Restrictions on
transfer of share or
interest
Address of
society
A copy of the
statute, rules,
by-laws, etc. to be
open for
inspection

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
8A
CHAPTER V
Priviledges of registered societies
20. The registration of a society shall render it a body corporate by the name under
which it is registered, with perpetual succession and a common seal, and with power
to hold property, to enter into contracts, to institute and defend suits and other legal
proceedings, and to do all things necessary for the purpose of its constitution.
21. (1) A registered society which has as one of its objects the disposal of any article
which is the produce of agriculture or animal husbandry or any other industry, may
provide in its by-laws or may contract with its members.
(a) that every such member who produce any such article, shall dispose of the whole or
of any specified amount, propotion or description thereof to or through the society,
and
(b) that any member who is proved or adjudged in such manner as may be prescribed by
rules, to be guilty of a breach of the by-laws or contract, shall pay to the society as
liquidated damages a sum ascertained or assessed in such manner as may be prescribed
by rules, or by its by-laws.
(2) A contract made by a registered society under subsection (1) shall create in favor
of the society a first charge upon all articles, whether produced or about to be
produced, to which the contract relates.
(3) In any legal proceedings arising out of a contract under subsection (1), it shall not
be a defence that the contract is in restraint of trade.
(4) A member of a registered society shall be deemed not to have contravened any by
law of the society, if the failure to deliver such produce was due to the fact that he
had, prior to becoming a member of the society, contracted to deliver the produce
to some other person.
(5) Every person who applies for membership of a registered society shall, if required
so to do, disclose in his application particulars of all contracts made by him for the
delivery of any produce to any other person.
22. (1) Where the Minister is satisfied in the case of any registered society that the members
of the society or any section hereof are producers of any article in Sri Lanka, or in
any province, district or area in Sri Lanka, the Minister may in his discretion, by
order, direct each producer of that article in Sri Lanka, or in such province, district
or area in Sri Lanka, as the case may be. Whether such producer is or is not a
member of the society, to sell to or through the society such part of the total quantity
of that article produced by him as is not required for his own use or consumption.
(2) Every Order made by the Minister under sub-section (1) shall be published in the
Gazette and shall specify the article, the area in which the Order shall operate and
the basis on which the producer of such article shall be paid.
(3) Every Order shall come into operation on the date of its publication in the Gazzette
and shall subject to the provisions of subsection (5) continue in operation until it is
rescinded.
Societies to be
bodies corporate
Disposal of
produce to or
through society
Compulsary sale
of produce
through a
registered society
in certain cases.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(4) Every Order shall, as soon as may be after it has come into operation, be brought
before the National State Assembly for approval.
(5) Every order which the National State Assembly refuses to approve shall be deemed
to be rescinded, but without prejudeice to the validity of anything previously done
or suffered to be done there-under. The date on which an Order shall be deemed to
be rescinded shall  be the date on which the National State Assembly refuses to
approve the Order, and such date shall be notified in the Gazette.
(6) (a) The Minister may at any time by Order published in the Gazette (Such Order being
hereinafter referred to as an “amending Order”) vary any Order previously made
under subsection (1). Every amending Order shall come into operation on the date
of its publication in the Gazette.
(b) An Order made under subsection (1) which is varied by an amending Order shall
continue in operation, as so varied, for the period during which it would have been
in operation if it had not been so varied, and no longer.
(c) Every amending Order shall be brought before the Central Provincial Council for
approval:
Provided, however, that where an Order made under subsection (1) is varied by one
or more amending Orders before it is approved by the National State Assembly
under subsection (4), the Order when it is brought before the Central Provincial
Council for approval under that subsection, shall have incorporated therein all
variations effected by such amending Order or Orders, and it shall not be necessary
in any such case to bring any such amending Order seperately before the Central
Provincial Council.
(d) The refusal of the Central Provincial to approve any amending Order which is brought
before the Central Provincial Council for approval shall be deemed to be a rescission
of that amending Order, and the Order made under subsection (1) shall, from the
date of such rescission, continue in operation as though that amending Order had
not been made.
(e) The Minister may at any time rescind any Order previously made under subsection
(1). Notification of the recission of any such Order shall be published in the Gazette
and such Order shall be deemed to be rescinded upon the date of such publication.
(7) Every order, after being approved by the Central Provincial Council, shall be valid
and in effect  as if enacted under this statute.
(8)  Every Notice to be published in the Gazette under this section should be published
under the signature of the Minister.
(9) The provision of any Order made under this section shall, notwithstanding that they
are inconsistent with or in conflict with the provisions of any other written Law,
prevail over such other written law for the period during which the Order is in force.
(10) Every producer who is directed by Order under subsection (1) to sell any article to
or through a registered society of which he is not a member, shall, in respect of any
matter or transaction arising out of such sale, be subject to the same conditions and
obligations to which he would have been subject if he were a member of the society.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
10A
(11) Where any producer in respect of whom an Order is made under subsection (1), and
who is not a member of the registered society, applies for admission as a member
of the society, the society shall -
(a) if he so desires deduct from any funds received or held by the society on his account,
the whole or any portion of the subscription for membership, and
(b) admit him as a member upon payment in full of such subscription subject to any
such deduction as aforesaid.
23. (1) Any person who, having knowledge or notice that any other person has contracted
under section 21 or is bound by an Order under section 22 to sell any article produced
by such other person to or through a registered society, solicits or persuades such
other person to sell or deliver such article, in violation of such contract or in
contravention of such Order, as the case may be, shall be gulity of an offence and
shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistatre be liable to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees.
(2) Where the person convicted of an offense under subsection (1) is a body corporate,
every person who at the time of the commission of the offence was a director or
officer of the body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he
proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he excercised
all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.
24. (1) Subject to any prior claim of the Republic on the property of a debtor and to the
lien or claim of a landlord in respect of rent or any money recoverable as rent, and
in the case of immovable property, to any prior registered charge thereon-
any debt or outstanding demand payable to a registered society by any member or
past member shall be a first charge-
(a) upon crops or other agricultural produce raised in whole or in part with a loan taken
from the society by such member or past member:
(b) upon any cattle, fodder for cattle, agricultural or industrial implements, or raw
materials for manufacture, or workshops, godown, or place of business, supplied to
or purchased by such member or past member in whole or in part from any loan
whether in money or goods given to him by the society.
(2) any outstanding demands or dues payable to a housing society by any member or
past member in respect of rent, shares, loans, or amounts payable to such society
shall be a first charge upon his interest in the immovable property of the society.
25.  A registered society shall have a charge upon the shares or other interests in the
capital and on the deposits of a member or past member or deceased member and
upon any dividend, bonus, or profits payable to a member or past member or to the
estate of a deceased member in respect of-
(a) any debt due to the society,
(b) any debt due to any other registered society, or
Persons soliciting
others to violate
contracts
Rights of
registered society
over crops,
agricultural
produce, cattle,
implements, raw
material and
manufactured
article belonging
to any member
Charge and set-
off in respect of
shares or interest

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(c) any amount due to the liquidator of any registered society,
from such member or past member or estate, and may set off, or pay to such other
society, or liquidator, as the case may be, any sum credited or payable to a member
or past member or estate of a deceased member in or towards payment of any such
debt or amount.
26. Subject to the provisions of section 25, the share, contribution or other interest of
a member in the capital of a registered society shall not be liable to attachment or
sale under any debt or liability incurred by such member, and neither his assignee in
insolvency nor a receiver appointed under Chapter L of the Civil Procedure Code,
shall be entitled to, or have any claim on, such share, contribution or other interest.
27. (1) On the death of a member, a registered society may transfer the share or other
interest of the deceased member to the person nominated in accordance with the
rules made in that behalf, or, if there is no person so nominated to such persons as
may appear to the committee to be the heir or legal representative of the deceased
member, or may pay to such nominee, heir, or legal representative, as the case may
be, a sum representing the value of such member’s share or other interest, as
ascertained in accordance with the rules or by-laws:
Provided that-
(a) in the case of a society with unlimited liability, such nominee, heir, or legal
representative, as the case may be, may require payment by the society of the value
of the share or other interest of the deceased member ascertained as aforsaid: and
(b) in the case of a society with limited liability, the society may transfer the share or
other interest of the deceased member to such heir or legal representative, as the
case may be, who is qualified in accordance with the rules and by-laws for
membership of the society, or on his application within six months of the death of
the deceased member to any person specified in the application who is so qualified.
(2) A registered society shall pay all other moneys due to the deceased member from
the society to such nominee heir, or legal representative, as the case may be.
(3) All transfers and payments made by a registered society in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall be valid and effectual against any demand made
upon the society by any other person.
28. (1) A registered society may receive deposits from or for the benefit of minors and it
shall be lawful for a registered society to pay to such minors the interest which may
become due on such deposits. Any deposits made by a minor may, together with the
interest accrued thereon, be paid to that minor: and any deposit made on behalf of a
minor may, together with the interest accrued thereon, be paid to the guardian of
that minor for the use of the minor.
(2) The receipt of any minor or guardian for money paid to him by a society under this
section shall be a sufficient discharge of the liability of that society in respect of
that money.
shares,
contributions and
other interests not
liable to
attachment or sale
Transfer of
interest on death
of member
Deposits by or on
behalf of minor¡

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
12A
29. (1) The liability of a past member for the debts of a registered society as thay existed
on the date on which he ceased to be a member shall continue for a period of two
years reckoned from that date.
(2) The estate of a deceased member shall, for a period of two years reckoned from the
date of his decease, be liable for the debts of the society as they existed on the date
of his decease.
30. Any register or list of members kept by any registered society shall be prima facie
evidence of any of the following particulars entered therein: -
(a) the date on which the name of any person was entered in such register or list as a
member
(b) membersip number
(c) the date which any person cease to be a member
31. (1) A copy of any entry in a book of a registered society regularly kept in the course of
business shall, if certified in such manner as may be prescribed by the rules, be
received in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, as prima facie evidence of the
existence of such entry, and shall be admitted as evidence of the matters, transactions,
and accounts therein recorded in every case where, and to the same extent as, the
original entry itself is admissible.
(2) No officer of any registered society shall in any legal proceedings to which the
society is not a party, be compelled to produce any of the society’s books, the
contents of which can be proved under subsection (1) or to appear as a witness to
prove any matters, transactions or accounts therein recorded, unless the court for
special reasons so directs.
32. Notwithstanding any written or other law for the time being in force, a registered
society may -
(a) pledge as security for a general balance of account any securities held by it; and
(b) authorize the creditor, in the event of default of payment on the date of the
terminatiuon of a notice issued to the society, to sell any or all of such securities,
without recourse to court, and to credit the proceeds to such balance of account.
33. A registered society shall obtain prior approval of the Registrar in addition to the
approval of the general assembly when buying, selling, pawning, leasing exchanging
or using any other instrument of disposition of any movable or immovable property
other than goods for trading of over a value of Rs.250,000/- if related to the field
of cooperative banks and financial services or Rs.500,000/- if related to another
businesses, for a purpose related to objectives of that society.
34. (1) Where any land or building is required for any purpose connected with the objects
of a registered society, that purpose shall be deemed to be a public purpose and that
land or building may be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act by the Government
for that society.
Liability of past
member and estate
of deceased
member for debts
of society
Register of
members
Proof of entries in
books of society
Deposits of
securities as
pledged by a
society
Right to acquire
and sell property
Compulsary
acquisition of
lands and
buildings

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(2) Where any land or building is to be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act by the
Governemnt for a registered society, that society shall, before an Order relating to
that land or building is made under section 38 of that Act, pay to the Government
the amount determined under that Act as the compensation payable in respect of
that land or building is made under section 38 of that Act, pay to the Government
the amount determined under that Act as the compensation payable in respect of
that land or building and also the costs incurred by the Government in the acquisition
proceedings:
(3) Provided, however, that where it becomes necessary to take possession of any land
or building on the ground of any urgency before the amount of compensation is
determined under that Act, that society shall pay to the Government before such
Order is made such amount as in the opinion of the acquiring officer is likely to be
determined as the compensation payable in respect of that land or building, and
shall pay the balance amount, if any, after the amount of compensation is determined
under that Act.
CHAPTER VI
General Provisions related to by-laws
35. (1) Every by-law of a registered society shall, upon registration, be binding upon the
society shall, upon registration, be binding upon the society and the members thereof
to the same extent as if the by-law was signed by each member of the society and
contained a covenant by each such  member to observe the provisions of the by-law.
(2) Any dispute arising out of the interpretation of a by-law of a registered society
shall be referred to the Registrar for his decision, and his decision shall be final and
conclusive in law.
36. No by-law made by a registered society in respect of any matter for which by-laws
are authorized by any rule to be made, shall be called in question in any court of law
on the ground only that such by-law constitutes a contract in restraint of trade.
37. The by-laws made by any registered society may, subject to any rules, provide for
the imposition of fines on the members of the society for contravention of its by-
laws:
Provided, however, that no such fine shall be imposed on any member unless-
(a) notice in writing of the intention to impose such fine and the reasons therefor have
been given in writing to him by the society; and
(b) he has failed to show, within such time and in such manner as may be prescribed by
rules, sufficient cause against the imposition of the fine.
By-laws of a
society to bind
members
Power to make
by-laws in
restraint of trade
Power to make by-
laws for the
imposition of
fines on members

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
14A
CHAPTER VII
Properties and Funds of Registered Societies
38. (1) A registered society shall not lend a loan to any person other than a member.
However a registered society may lend a loan to a society that has associate
membership of the said society, or supply goods on credit to an associate member
on conditions laid out by the Registrar provided that the prior permission of the
Registrar has been obtained and with the approval of the general assembly.
(2) Except with the permission of the Registrar, a registered society shall not lend
money on the security of any movable property other than agricultural produce.
39. (1) A registered society shall accept deposits and loans from persons other than
members only up to an amount stipulated by Regulatory laws for Cooperative Banks
imposed under the Chapter XIV and Financial affairs and regulations on Cooperative
societies or by-laws and the conditions stipulated such.
(2) Where a loan is granted to a registered society by a bank on the mortgage of any
immovable or movable property, such property shall from and after the date of the
registration of Documents Ordinance, be charged with the payment of the moneys
due under such mortgage in priority to every other debt of such registered society
whatsoever and to every mortgage or charge affecting such property, except a
mortgage or charge affecting such property which is secured by a mortgage duly
registered under the Registration of Documents Ordinance prior to such date.
40. Save as provided in sections 38 and 39, Transactions of a registered society with
persons other than members shall be subject to such prohibitions and restrictions
as may be prescribed by the rules.
41. (1) A registered society may deposit or invest its funds in any of the securities other
than a first mortgage of immovable property specified in section 20 of the Trust
Ordinance, or with any banker or person acting as a banker approved for this purpose
by the Registrar, or in the shares or on the security of any other registered society,
approved for this purpose by the Registrar, or in any other mode permitted by the
rules.
(2) Any deposit or investment made before the commencement of this Law which would
have been valid if this Law had been in force is hereby ratified and confirmed.
42. (1) Every registered society shall, out of its net profits in any financial year as
ascertained by the audit under section 44-
(a) transfer an amount not being less than twenty five per centum of the net profits to
the reserve fund of the society; and
(b) contribute such portion of the net profits as may be prescribed by rules to the Co-
operative fund established under the rules.
(2) The balance of the net profits may be utilized for all or any of the following purposes
(a) payment of dividends to members on the value of the business done by them with
the society to the extent and in the manner specified in the by-laws;
Loans made by
Registered
Societies
Deposits and
Loans received by
Registered
Societies
Restriction on
other transactions
with non-members
Investing Funds
of the Society
Disposal of profit

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(b) payment of rebates to members on the value of the business done by them  with the
society to the extent and in the manner specified in the by-laws;
(c) contributions to such funds as may be prescribed in the by-laws;
(d) payment of bonus to employees of the society;
(e) Contributions of an amount not exceeding ten per centum  of the net profits to a
Common Good Fund for expenditure on any Social, cultural or recreational purpose,
or the advancement of any other object of local or public utility.
(3) No distribution of profits of a registered society as mentioned in sections 1 and 2
shall be made without general or special order of the Registrar of the society.
CHAPTER VIII
Audit, Inquiry, Inspection or Investigation
43.  (1) Each registered society shall maintain accounts on income of the society assets
and liabilities and all other transactions in accordance with the standards given by
the registrar and each society shall act accordingly.
 (2) Each registered society shall prepare an annual report on accounts, schedules and
statistics pertaining to the activities of the society as per ordered by the registrar or
the person authorized by him. Such financial report shall be submitted to registrar
or the person authorized by him within three months after the end of the financial
year concerned.
 (3) If a registered society defaults the provisions of this section, all the members of
the committee of such society shall be convicted for such offence, and on conviction
after a summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to be subjected under a fine not
exceeding four thousand rupees.
 (4) In an instance the society fails to obey provisions of the section 43(2), the registrar
shall provide a relief period of extra two month to prepare the annual report of the
society. If it fails, the registrar shall cause the accounts of the society to be prepared
by a person nominated by him and the registrar shall be able to levy such expenses
from the defaulter as stipulated by the rules.
 (5) (a) Each registered society shall prepare budget estimation for each financial year
including income targets, recurrent and capital expenditure, financial and finance
resources, financial investments, budgeted profit and loss account, income and
expenditure account and balance sheet.
(b) The budget estimation shall be presented to the general assembly of the society for
approval at least two months prior to the commencement of the financial year
concerned.
(c) A copy of such budget estimation shall be submitted to the registrar at least one
calendar month prior to the commencement of the financial year concerned.
(d) The format and the structure of, and the minimum information to be included in,
such budget estimation shall be as determined by the registrar.
Audit
Preparation of
Budget
Estimations¡

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
16A
44.  (1) The accounts of all registered societies shall be audited by the registrar or made to be
audited annually by a government officer, cooperative development officer, chartered
accountant, chartered accounting firm, authorized by him by a general or special
written order.
 (2) The audit under subsection (1) shall include;
(a) an examination of overdue debts;
(b) a valuation and verification of the assets and the liabilities of the registered societies;
(c) An inspection whether the organization methods, operational procedures, books
reports and other documents are properly and adequately designed to ensure a
continuous assessment of proper financial management and activities of the society
and whether those methods, operational procedures, books reports and other
documents are implemented effectively.
(d) An inspection on whether the conduct of the society complies with the rules,
regulations or provisions of by-laws of this statute or made under this statute, and
whether the administration of activities of the society complies with the rules,
regulations or provisions of by-laws of the statute.
(e) An inspection on whether the funds are utilized efficiently and economically.
(f) An inspection on whether proper operational procedures are prepared to ensure the
safety of cash and properties owned by and under the management of the registered
society.
(g) An inspection on whether the audited accounts are designed to present a true and
accurate account of activities of the society in the period concerned with proper
attention to principles of accounting, utilization of monies and estimation.
(h) An inspection on whether an internal audit has been conducted such that the accounts
of the society can be updated and corrected, and whether action has been taken to
correct the defects and omissions indicated by such audits.
(i) An inspection on whether a regulation of cooperative banks and financial activities
as in chapter XIV with other specific facts.
 (3) For the purposes of an audit under subsection (1), the registrar or any person
authorized by him to audit the accounts shall have the power;
(a) to summon any past or present officer, agent, servant, or member of the society or
any other person who, in the opinion of the registrar, or the person authorized by
him to audit, can give material information about any transactions of the society or
the management of its affairs;
(b) to require the production of any book, or document relating to the affairs of the
society, or any cash, security or other property belonging to the society, by any past
or present officer, agent, servant or member of the society or any other person in
possession of, or having the custody of such book, document, cash, security or
other property and;
Auditing

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(c) to take into his custody books of accounts or the documents of the society where he
discovers a fraud in the process of such audit.
 (4) The registrar, or any person authorized by general or special order in writing in that
behalf by the registrar, shall at all times have access to all the books, accounts,
papers and securities of a registered societies, and shall be entitled to inspect the
cash in hand: an every officer or member of the society shall furnish such information
in regard to the transactions and working of the society as the person making an
audit may require.
 (5) Or else information related to transactions and works of the societies shall be
provided as ordered by the registrar or the person authorized to audit.
 (6) The registrar and every person authorized by him to audit the accounts of a registered
society shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code.
(a) i A payment has been made or some funds of the society has been used against any
rules of this statute or any other law, or rules pertaining to cooperative societies or
regulations related to financial procedure approved by the registrar, or circulars
issued by the registrar or the Cooperative Employees Commission or any general
provisions or by-laws of the society or provisions of working rules of the society
by a person who is, or was in charge of organizing or management of a society, who
is, or has been at any time an officer or an employee of the society.
ii If, in the course of, or at the conclusion of, an audit under subsection (i), any
irregularity or misuse of funds or properties of the society is found, the registrar
shall disallow every such payment and every such use of funds and surcharge the
same on the person making or authorizing the making of such illegal payment or
such use of funds, and shall charge against any person, the amount any deficiency or
loss incurred by the negligence or misconduct of that person and any amount which
ought to have been, but is not, brought into account by that person, and shall in each
case certify the amount due from such person and communicate his decision in
writing to such person.
(b) Before making any disallowance or surcharge against any person, the registrar, or
any person authorized by general or special order in writing in that behalf by the
registrar, shall offer an opportunity to such person to be heard or to make any
representations with regard to the matters which he may think fit, and shall in the
event of his making such disallowance or surcharge, furnish such person in writing,
on application being made to him for that purpose with the reasons for his decision
in respect of such disallowance or surcharge.
(c) The provisions of section 66(2) shall apply in a case where the decision made by
the registrar is not complied with.
45.  (1) If on an audit held under section 44, any defects in the working of a registered
society are disclosed, the registrar may bring the defects to the notice of the society
and if the society is a member of another society, also to the notice of that other
society.
 (2) The registrar may make an order directing the society or its officers to take such
action as may be specified in the order within the time mentioned therein to remedy
the defects disclosed.
Communication of
Defects in audit
to Societies

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
18A
46.  (1) The registrar may of his own motion, hold an inquiry into the constitution, working,
and financial condition of the registered society.  In addition, he shall, on the
application of a majority of the committee, or of not less than one third of the members
of a registered society, or in case the general assembly consist of representatives, on
the request of not less than one third of the such representatives, hold an inquiry into
the composition, working, assets and financial condition of the registered society.
The registrar may also direct some person authorized by him for such duty by order in
writing in that behalf, to hold an inquiry into the composition, working, assets and
financial condition or an inspection of books of the registered society.
 (2) For the purposes of an inquiry under subsection (i), the registrar or any person
authorized by him to have an inquiry, shall have the power;
(a) to summon any past or present officer, agent, servant, or member of the society or
any other person who, in the opinion of the registrar, or the person authorized by
him to inquire, can give material information about any transactions of the society
or the management of its affairs;
(b) to require the production of any book, or document relating to the affairs of the
society, or any cash, security or other property belonging to the society, by any past
or present officer, agent, servant or member of the society or any other person in
possession of, or having the custody of such book, document, cash, security or
other property and;
(c) to summon a general meeting of the members of the society at such time and place
as may be specified by him to determine such matter as may be directed by him; and
(d) to take into custody the books of accounts or the documents of the society where
he discovers a fraud in the cause of such inquiry.
 (3) The officer or officers appointed under this section to hold an inquiry or inspection
shall complete and submit the report of such inquiry or inspection to the registrar
on the date specified by him.
 (4) The registrar and every person authorized by him to hold an inquiry or inspection
under this section shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the
Penal Code.
47.  (1) The registrar may investigate the cash, books, properties, accounts and any other
documents or affairs of a registered society. Or else he can order a person authorized
by him to conduct such inquiry or investigation.
 (2) The registrar or a person authorized by him under subsection (1), shall have powers
vested under sections 46(2)(a),(b),(c),(d) and 46(4) of this statute.
Inquiry and
inspection
Inspection and
investigation of
cash, books,
properties,
accounts and
documents

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
CHAPTER IX
Suspension of Service and Removal of Officers and Dissolution of the Committee of a Registered
Society
48. (1) If the registrar is of the opinion after an inquiry under section 46(1) or an inspection,
that the committee of any registered society is not performing its duties properly,
he may, after considering objections of the committee to its dissolution, summon
a general meeting of the society as stipulated by the regulations, and by order in
writing -
(a) Dissolve the committee. The members of such dissolved committee are ineligible
to be appointed to an office of any registered society for a period of five years
from the date of dissolution.
(b) The registrar shall appoint a board of control of not exceeding five suitable and
proper persons to manage and administer the affairs of the society, out of which at
least two persons shall be officers of department of cooperative development.
(c) Any appointment for the board of control by the registrar under subsection 1(b)
above shall have effect for a period of not exceeding two years, provided, however,
that the registrar in his discretion from time to time amend the order for the purpose
of extending the period during which the direction shall have effect, so however
that the aggregate period during which the direction regarding a board of control
shall so have effect shall not exceed three years.
(d) The quorum for a meeting of such board of control shall comply with the regulations
of subsection 67(3).
(e) The suitable persons appointed under the provisions of 48(1)(b) shall be appointed
for a period determined by the registrar to manage and administer the affairs of the
society.
(2) If the registrar is of the opinion that an allegation against the committee has been
confirmed before an inquiry under section 46(1) or an inspection has been
completed, he shall have the power to suspend the committee for a period of six
months and appoint an interim board to manage and administer the affairs of the
society. The registrar shall finish the inquiry or inspection within six months from
the date of suspending the committee, and take a final decision on dissolving the
committee under subsection 1.
(3) Subject to the general direction and control of the registrar, any person or persons
appointed under this section to manage the affairs of a registered society may
exercise all the powers, rights, and privileges of a duly constituted committee of
the society. In addition, when required, the registrar may, by way of a special order,
grant the board of control the powers of the general assembly required to efficiently
manage the affairs of the society.
(4) Persons appointed under this section to manage the affairs of a registered society
shall be jointly and severally responsible for any loss sustained through any such
acts committed by them as are contrary to the law or the by-laws of the society.
Dissolution of the
Committee of the
Society

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
20A
(5) The registrar may fix the remuneration payable to any person or persons appointed
by him under this section to manage the affairs of a registered society. The amount of
such remuneration and other expenses, if any, incurred in the management of the
society shall be payable from the funds of the society.
(6) It shall be the duty of the person or persons appointed under this section to manage
the affairs of a registered society and holding office immediately prior to the date
on which the direction under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) ceases to have effect,
to arrange, prior to the date aforesaid, for the appointment of a new committee in
accordance with the by-laws of the society.
(7) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to affect the power of the registrar to
cancel the registration of the society under section 49.
CHAPTER X
Dissolution of a registered society
49. (1)  if the registrar after an inquiry under section 46 or an inspection or investigation
or on receipt of an application for its dissolution made by three- firths of the
members of a registered society, and to the creditors of such society to state their
objections, is of opinion that the society ought to be dissolved, he may by order
under his hand cancel the registration of the society
(2) Any member or credit or of a registered society may, within two months from the
date of an order made under his section (1), appeal from such order to the minister
(3) Where no appeal is presented within two months from the making of an order
cancelling the registration of a society the order shall take effect on the expiry of
that Period. Where an appeal is presented within the two months, the order shall
take effect until it is confirmed.
(4) Where the Registrar cancels the registration of a society under sub-section 49 (I),
he may appoint one or more persons to be in charge of the books, Documents and
other property of the society and to manage the affairs of the society until the order
cancelling take effect or until such order to reversed in an appeal by the Minister
On the appointment of such person or person the committees of the society or any
other person in charge the books. Documents and other property of the society
shall hand over such books documents or property to the first mentioned person or
persons and such committee shall until the order cancelling the registration takes
effect or until such order is reversed in appeal by- the Minister cease to function
50. The registrar may by order in writing cancel the registration of any registered society
(a) Where it is a condition of the registration of the society that the society shall
consist of at least numbers of members if the number of members of such society
has been reduced to less than the least number or
(b)  If a registered society has not commenced working during one year from the date
of registration of such society or has ceased to work for a period of two years
period the date of making the order of cancellation under this sections, after a
special investigation done by a person who is appointed by the registrar or by his
will power.
Dissolution
Cancellation of
registration of
Society

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
5l. where the registration of a society is cancelled by an order under Section 49 or under
section 50 the society shall cease to exist as a corporate body from the date on which
the order takes effect, here in after referred to as the date of dissolution.
But the privileges which the society has can be submitted to a special person whom
is appointed by the society & recognized by the registrar.
52. Where the registration of a society is cancelling under Section 49 or Section 50
the Registrar may appoint one or more persons to be the liquidator or liquidators of
the society.
All the property of the society shall vest in the liquidator or liquidators on the date
on which the order of cancellation under Section 49 or Section 50 as the case may
be takes effect.
53. (1) Liquidator appointed under Section 52 shall, subject to the guidance and control of
the registrar and to any limitations imposed by the Registrar by order under Section
54, have Power to
(a) determine from time to time the contributions to be made by the members and the
past members or by the estates of deceased members of the society to its assets.
(b) Appoint a day by proclamation or notice before which creditors whose claims are
not ready recorded in the books of the society, shall state their claims for admission
or to be excluded from any distribution made before they have proved them;
(c) decide in accordance with the provisions of this stature any question of priority
which arises between creditors;
(d) Refer for arbitration under section 58 any dispute of any description mentioned in
that section (reference therein to the society being construed as references to the
liquidator) and institute and defend suits and together legal proceedings on be of
the society by his name office;
(e)  decide by which persons and in what proportions the cost of liquidation are to be
borne;
(f)  give such direction in regard to the collection and distribution of assets as may be
necessary in the course of winding of the society;
(g) compromise any claim try or against the society provided the sanction by of the
registrar has first been obtained;
(h) call such general meetings of members as may be necessary, for the proper conduct
of the liquidation;
(i)  take possession of the books, documents and assets of the society;
(j) Sell the property of the society;
(k) at the time of the dissolution of the society the total collection of cash should be
banked or kept under the supervision of the registrar.
Effect of
Cancellation of
registration
Liquidation after
cancellation of
registration of
Society
Liquidators Power

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
22A
(l) Arrange for the distribution of the assets of the society in a convenient manner when
a scheme of distribution has been approved by the registrar.
(m) Carry on the business of the society so far as may be necessary for winding it up
beneficially; provided that nothing herein contained shall entitle the Liquidator of a
credit society to issue any loan; and
(2) Where there is any debt payable by any member or past member to a society whose
registration is cancelled under Section 49 or Section 50 and such person is a member
of any other society registered under this statute after the date of such cancellation,
then the liquidator of such first mentioned society appointed under Section 52
shall, subject to the guidance and control of the Registrar and to any other limitation
imposed by the Registrar by order under section 54. Have power to require that
such other society shall recover, from any Sum of money due from such society to
such person a sum not exceeding such debt in like manner as if it was a debt due
from such member to such other society and transmit the same to the liquidator.
(3) Subject to such rules as may be made in that behalf, any liquidator appointed under
this Statute shall, in so far as such powers are necessary for carrying out the purposes
of this section, have power to summon and enforce the attendance of parties and
witnesses and to compel the production of documents by the same means and (sofar
as may be) in the same manner as is provided in the case of a District Court under
the Civil procedure Code.
54. (1) liquidator shall exercise his powers subject to the control and direction of the
Registrar, who may-
(a) Rescind or vary any order made by a liquidator and make whatever new order is
required;
(b) Remove a liquidator from office;
(c) Call for all books, documents and assets of the society
(d) By order in writing limit the powers of a liquidator under section 53
(e) Require accounts to be rendered to him by the liquidator at his discretion
(f) Procure the auditing of the liquidators accounts and authorize the distribution of
the assets of the society
(g) Make order for the remuneration of the liquidator; or
(h) Refer for arbitration any dispute (not being a dispute as referable under Section 53
(I) (d)) between the liquidator and any third party, if such party consents in writing
(to be bound by the decision of the arbitrator.
(2) A fund to be created under the title of “SURPLUS FUND” & all the funds which are
collected by the liquidator should be deposited to that account. This account should
be maintained by the registrar under the rules & regulations.
55. (1) The decision of an arbitrator on any matter refer to him under Section 54 shall be
binding upon the parties and shall be enforceable in like manner as an order made
by the Registrar under that section.
Power of
Registrar’s to
control
Liquidations

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(2) An order made by a liquidator or by the registrar under section 53 or section 54 shall
not be called in question in any civil code, and shall be enforced by any civil code
having jurisdiction over the place where the registered office of the society is situated
in like manner as a decree of the court.
Provided that any bank which is a credit or of a society whose registration has been
cancelled shall be entitled to appeal to the minister from an order made by a
liquidator or by the registrar under section 53 or section 54 within two months
from the date of such order of the liquidator or the registrar.
(3) Where no appeal is presented to the minister within two months of the making of an
order by a liquidator or by the registrar under section 53 or section 54, such order
of the liquidator or the registrar shall take effect on expiry of that period. Then an
appeal is presented to the minister within the two months. The order of the liquidator
or the registrar shall not take effect until it is confirm by the minister.
56. Save in so far as herein before expressly provided, no civil court shall have any
jurisdiction in respect of any matter concerned with the dissolution of a registered
society under this statute.
57. (1) In the liquidation of a society whose registration has been cancelled , the funds,
including the reserve fund, shall subject to the provisions of the section 39 (2) be
applied first to the costs of liquidation, then to the repayment of government loans
and government guaranteed loans. Provincial council loans and provincial council
guaranteed loans, then to the discharge of the other liabilities of the society, then to
the payment of a dividend at a rate not exceeding six per centum per annum for any
period for which no disposal of profits has made where such period is immediately
preceding the date of dissolution.
(2) When the liquidation of a society has been closed and any creditor of that society
has not claimed or received what is due to him under the scheme of distribution,
notice of the closing of the liquidation shall be published in the GAZETTE; and the
respect of any claim against the funds of such society, no action shall be maintainable
unless it is commenced within the three months from the date of the publication of
such notice in the GAZETTE.
(3) Any surplus remaining after the application of the funds to the purposes specified
in Subsection (l) and the payment of any claims for which an action is instituted
under sub-section(2), may be applied to such subject of local or public utility as
may be selected, subject to the approval of the Registrar, by the persons who were
officers of the society at the date of the dissolution thereof.
If such persons fail within three months after the date on which the liquidation of
the society is closed to select as aforesaid an object approved by the registrar, the
registrar shall deposit the surplus in a bank or with a registered society.
The surplus so deposited may be paid in to such surplus fund as may be constituted
for the purposes of this statute. Disbursement out of such surplus fund may be
made at the discretion of the registrar for such purposes and in such manner as per
the instructions given by the secretary of the respective Ministry which is an
approved estimate or   maybe provided in the rules;
Provided, however, that any interest accruing on the surplus may he paid into the co-
operative Fund.
Limitation of the
Jurisdiction of the
civil court
Closure of
Liquidation

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
24A
CHAPTER XI
Disputes
58. (1) if any dispute touching the business of a registered society arises.
(a) among member, past members and persons claiming though members, past member
and deceased members, or among officers or the society, whether past or present,
or among heirs or legal representatives of deceased officers or  employees: or
(b)  between a member, past member or person claiming through a member, past member
or deceased member, and the society, its committee or any officer of employee of
the society, whether past or present, or any heir or legal representative or any
deceased officer of employee : or
(c) between the society or its committee and any officer or employee of the society,
whether past or present, or any heir or legal representative of any deceased officer
or employee: or
(d) Between the society or its committee; and
(i) Any person who was a member or an officer or employee of any other society
whose business or part thereof was transferred to the society; to
(ii) Any person who claims through any member or past member or deceased. Member
or the society referred to in Sub-paragraph (1)
(iii) Any person who is the heir or legal representative of any officer or employee
of the society referred to in Sub-paragraph (1) ; or
(e) Between the society and any other registered society. Such disputes shall be referred
to the Registrar for decision.
(f) A claim by a registered society for any debt, demand or damages due to it from a
member, officer or employee, whether past or present, or any nominee, heir or
legal representative of a  deceased member, officer employee, whether such debt,
demand or damages he admitted or not,  shall he deemed to the a dispute touching
the business of the society within the meaning of this subsection.
(2) The Registrar may, on receipt of a reference under Sub- section (I)
(a) Decide the dispute himself, or
(b) Refer it for dispose to an arbitrator or arbitrators.
(3) Any party aggrieved by the award, of the arbitrator or arbitrators may appeal there
from to the Registrar within such period and in such manner as may be prescribed
by rules. The re appealing procedure should be done within 30 days of judgment
(except weekends and public holidays)If the re appealing procedure is done by a
Settlement of
Disputes

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
party which the decision was given agenized (accused) a payment of 500/= or 10%
from the said value should be deposited, If the re appealing procedure is done by a
party who is requesting an amount a payment of 500/= or 10% from the said value
should be deposited. The greater value of the above said values should be deposited.
If the request amount is greater than 25000/= at least a deposit amount of 25000/=
should be deposited,
(4) No party to-any appeal made to the Registrar under Sub-section (3) shall be entitles
either by himself or by any representative, to appear before and he heard by the
Registrar on such appeal
(5) A decision of the Registrar under Sub-section (2) or in appeal under Sub. Section
(3) Alton be final and shall not be called to question in any Civil Court.
(6) The award of the arbitrator or arbitrators under Sub-section (2) shall, if no appeal is
preferred to the Registrar under Sub-section (3) or if any such appeal is abandoned
or withdrawn, be final snit shell not be called let question in any Civil Court.
(7) The provisions of the Prescription Ordinance shall not apply to any claim which is
the subject of a dispute kinder this section.
(8) If any question arises whether a dispute referred to the Registrar under this section
is a dispute touching the business of a registered society, the decision thereon of
the Registrar shall he final and shall not be called in question in any Civil court.
(9) In this section “member” includes associate member.
59. (1 ) Where a decision of the Registrar on a dispute or an appeal referred ear made to
him under Section 58, here after in This section called “decision” or an award of an
arbitrator on a dispute referred to hint tinder that section, from which award no
appeal has been duly made to the Registrar under that section, hereafter in this
section called an “award” is that a sum of money is due from .any party to the
dispute to another party to the dispute, and such suns together with costs and interest,
if any, has not been paid, the Registrar may in respect of the party front whom such
sum is due, hereafter in this section called the “defaulter”-
 (a)  issue a certificate to a District Court having jurisdiction in any district where the
defaulter resides or in which any property movable or immovable owned by the
defaulter is situate containing particulars of the sun due together with costs and
interest, if any, and the name of the defaulter. : or
(b) issue a Certificate containing particulars of the amount due together with cost and
interest and the name and last known place of business or residence of the defaulter
to a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in which such-place is situate.
(2) Where a certificate is issued to a District Court under paragraph (b), of Sub-section
(1), the Court shall whereupon direct a writ of execution to issue to the Fiscal
authorizing and requiring him to seize and sell all or any of the property movable
and immovable of the defaulter, or such part thereof as he may deem necessary for
the recovery of such sum, and the provisions of Sections 226 to 297 of the Civil
Procedure Code shall mutatis mutandis , apply to such seizure and sale and
Enforcement of
On Award

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
26A
(3) Where a certificate is issued to a Magistrate under Paragraph (c) of Sub-section (1),
the Magistrate shall thereupon summon such defaulter before him to show cause
why further proceedings for the recovery of the amount should not be taken against
him, and in default of sufficient cause being shown, the Amount shall be deemed to be
a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on such defaulter for an offence
punishable with fine only or not punishable with imprisonment, and the provisions of
Section 291 (except Paragraphs (a) and (d) of Sub-section (1) of that section) of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall there upon apply, and the
Magistrate may make any direction which, by the provisions of that section, he could
have made at the time of imposing such sentence.
(4) Where the Registrar issues a certificate under this section, he shall issue to the
defaulter a notification thereof by personal service, registered post or telegraph; but
non-receipt of such notification by the defaulter shall not invalidate proceedings
under this section.
(5) Nothing in this section shall authorise or require a District Court or Magistrate in
any proceedings there under to consider, examine or decide the correctness of any
statement in the certificate of the Registrar.
(6) (a) Sub-section (2)Any sum realized by a sale, under Sub-section (3) and any sum paid
or levied as fine, shall be transmitted by the District Court or the Magistrate, as the
case may be, to the Registrar who shall dispose of such sum in accordance with the
relevant decision or award.
(b) Until the interest amounts of the funds to be invested in a suitable business the
amount is kept under the supervision of the secretary of the respective Ministry.
(c) Investing the interest funds for the investments is fully controlled by the Minister
of the respective Ministry. Also it is fully authorized by the secretary to the said
Ministry.
60. (1) Where the application for a membership of a registered society made by any person
is refused by the society, such person may appeal to the Registrar against the refusal
and the decision of the Registrar on such appeal shall be final and binding on the
society.
(2) Where any question arises as to whether a member of a registered society has been
duly elected to any office in the society or whether a member has ceased to be a
member or officer of the society, or whether any general meeting of the society
had been validly held, that question shall be decided by the Registrar whose decision
shall be final.
CHAPTER XII
RULES
61. (1) The Minister of Co-operative for Central Province  may make all such rules as may
be necessary for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Statute.
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by
Sub-section (1), such rules may
Registrar to
decide certain
other matters

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(a) Prescribe the conditions to be complied with in applying for the registration of a
society and the procedure in the matter of such applications;
(b)  Prescribe the conditions to be complied with any persons applying for admission
or admitted as members, and provide for the election and admission of members,
from time to time and the payment to be made and interest to be acquired before
exercising rights of membership;
(c) Provide for the withdrawal and expulsion of members and for the payments to be
made to members who withdraw or are expelled, and for the liabilities of past
members;
(d) Prescribe the extent to which the registered society may limit the number of its
members;
(e) Provide for the mode in which the value of a deceased member’s interest shall be
ascertained, and for the nomination of a person to whom such interest may be paid
or transferred;
(f) subject to the provisions of Section (2). Prescribe the maximum number of shares
or portion of the capital of a registered society which may be held by a member;
(g) Prescribe the payments to be made, the conditions to be complied with. and the
forms of the bonds, instruments or other documents to be executed, by members,
applying for loans or cash credits, the period for which loans may be made or credits
granted, and the maximum amount which may be lent and the maximum credit which
may be allowed to individual members ,
(h) Prescribe the conditions under which profits may be distributed to the members of
a society with unlimited liability, and the maximum rate of dividend which may be
paid by societies;
(i) regulate the manners in which funds may be raised by means of shares or debentures
or otherwise and the rate of interest which may be paid on deposits;
(j) Provide for general meetings or the members, and for the procedure at such meetings
and the powers to be exercised by such meetings;
(k) To prescribe the disqualifications of a member of a registered society from being
elected as a member of the committee of management or of a regional or branch
committee;
(l) Provide for the appointment, suspension, and removal of the members of the
committee and other officers, and for the procedure at meetings of the committee,
and for the powers to be exercised and the duties to be performed by the committee
and other officers,
(m) Prescribe the matters in respect of which a society may or shall make by laws, and
for the procedure to be followed in making, altering and rescinding the by - laws
under conditions to be satisfied prior to such meeting alteration, or rescission;

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
28A
(n) Prescribe the accounts and books to be kept by a registered society, and for the
periodical publication of a balance sheet showing, the assets and liabilities of a
registered society;
(o) provide for the audit of the accounts of registered societies, and for the charges, If
any, to he made for such audit and provide for the levy of contributions from all or
any registered societies to a fund to be known as the Co-operative Fund, of the
central province  provincial Council, to be used for the audit and supervision of and
assistance to the existing societies and Co-operative propaganda, for Co-operative
education and training, and provide for the administration of that Fund :
(p) Prescribe the returns to be submitted by registered societies to the Registrar, and
the persons by whom and the form in which the same are to by mad.
(q) Provide for the persons by whom, and the form in which copies of entries in books
of registered societies may be certified;
(r) Provide for the formation and maintenance of a register of members and, whose
the liability of the members is limited by shares of a register of shares.
(s) Provide for the formation and the maintenance of reserve funds and the objects to
which such funds May he applied, and for the Investment of any funds under the
control of any registered society:
(t) Prescribe the manner in which any question as to the breach of any by-laws or
contract relating to the disposal of produce to or through a society may be
determined, and the manner in which the liquidated damages for any such breath
may be ascertained assessed
(u) Prescribe the mode of appointing an arbitrator or arbitrators, and the procedure to
the followed in proceedings before Registrar or such arbitrator or arbitrators and
the enforcement of the decisions of the Registrar or the awards of arbitrators
(v) Prescribe the conditions to be observed by a registered society applying for the
financial assistance of Government;
(w) Determine the cases, not expressly provided for in this Statute, in which an appeal
shall He in the Minister of the Central Province Provincial council against orders
made by the Registrar,
(x) Prescribe the procedure to be followed by a liquidator appointed under Section 52,
and time cases in which appeals shall lie from the eiders of such liquidator;
(y) Provide for the establishment and maintenance of the Surplus Fund referred to in
Section 57 and prescribes the manner and purposes fin which the moneys of such
Fund may be disbursed,
(z) Under the section 59, registrar can handle the fines which were issued by the courts
and the under the supervision of the secretary of the respective ministry.
(Aa) the cooperative development fund which was established under the section 42
(A) should be controlled with the rules and regulations under the supervision of the
secretary of the respective ministry and should be handled by the registrar

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(Ab) Prescribe the forms to be used, the fees to he paid, the procedure to be observed,
and all other matters connected with or incidental to be presentation, hearing and
disposal of appeals under this Statute or the rules made thereunder.
(Ac) in the term of conclusion of a registered society creditors should forward
their ownership details and the repayment period should be finalized.
(Ad) the areas amounts which were not paid by the creditors should be collected
and deposited, the expenses also should be collected from the above said creditors
under the section 43(4)
(Ae) for the cooperative banks and financial institutes, the rules and regulations
should be amended under the section 63.
(3) (a) No rules shall have effect unless it has been approved by the Provincial Council of
the Central Province Nonfictions of such approval shall be published in the Gazette.
(b) Every rule shall, upon the publication in the Gazette of the Notification refereed in
Sub-section (3), be as valid and effectual as though it were herein enacted.
(c) If there any rules or regulations which were not approved by the provincial council
from the date of approved it can be commented, the date of the commencement
should be GAZETTED
After gazzetting the above the regulation is valid and powered under the
sub-section 3
CHAPTER XIII
Debts Due to the Government and Provincial Council
62. (1) all sums due from a registered society or from an officer or member or past member
of a registered society as such, to the Government, including sums due on
Government loans and Government guaranteed loans. Provincial Council loans and,
provincial Council Guaranteed loans and any costs awarded to the Government under
Section 46 may be recovered in a manner provided for the recovery of debts due to
the Republic by the Crown Debtors Ordinance, and shall, subject to the provisions
of Section 40 (2), he entitled to a preference of payment over sums due to any
other person or persons.
(2) Sums due from a registered society to Government and recoverable under Sub-
section (1) may be recovered, first from the property of the society; secondly in
the case of registered society of which the liability of the members is limited,
from the members, subject to the limit of their liability; and thirdly, in the case of
other societies from the members.
CHAPTER XIV
Regulatory of cooperative bank and finance sector
63. (1) Not withstanding anything contained in this Statute the Minister may by special
order in each case, and subject to such conditions as he may impose, exempt any
society from any of the requirements of this Statute as to registration.
Recovery of Sums
Due to
Government
Special Power of
Minister to
exempt any
Society from
requirements as to
registration

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
30A
(2) (A) there should be committee with seven members under the above section (1)
(I) commissioner for cooperative development and registrar should be the
president of the committee
(II) Includes a Chartered accountant
(III) Specialized in a Banking Sector
(IV) Assistant commissioner of the cooperative department
(V) Three members representing from cooperative banking and financial sector
(B) (I) in the event of a committee meeting the number of members should be greater
than four.
(II) In case of death of a member or in case of resignation a new recruitment
should be done by the minister.
(III) Any member of the committee could be removed any time after issuing the
letter by the subjected ministry.
(3) Responsibilities of the regulatory committee;
(a) Having a proper control on financial matters in the cooperative banks in the central
province
(b) Confirming and developing of the financial strength
(c) The security of the deposits
(d) Human resource management of the cooperative banks
(e) Managing the banks according to the government rules and regulations / auditing /
advising and regulation with the supervision of the minister to the commission of
the cooperative and the registrar.
(4) Collected membership fees, monthly of yearly should be deposited in a fund where
the register orders and the account should be maintained in a provincial bank, when
spending the amounts it should be approved from the secretary to the subjected
ministry and supervised by the registrar
(5) A payment could be arranged under the approval from the secretary of the subjected
ministry for the regulatory committee members.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
CHAPTER  XV
Miscellaneous
64. The Minister may by general or special order exempt any registered society or
class of society from any of the provisions of this Statute or may direct that such
provisions shall apply to any society or class of societies with effect from such
date or with such modifications as may be specified in the order.
65. A society could be released by a special order by the cooperative minister by the
central province under proper rules and regulations.
66. (1) Where in the course of an audit under Section 44 or an inquiry under Section 46, or
inspection of books and investigation of affairs of a society under section 47, or in
the course of the liquidation of a registered society, it appears that any sum of
money or other property is due to the society from any person or group of persons
who or which has taken part in the organization or management of the society or
from any past or present officer or employee of the society. Who has utilized the
funds of the society contrary to the provisions of this Statute or any other law or
rules or regulations made there under or the by-laws or the working rules of the
society or financial procedure approved by the Registrar or any general directions
issued by the Registrar or the Co-operative Employees Commission the Registrar
may of his own motion or upon the application of the committee or any creditor or
contributor of the
Societies, as the case may be, examine the conduct of such person group of persons
or employee and make an order requiring him or such group
a)      to repay with such interest as the Register thinks fit such money or part thereof;
b)      to restore such other property or part thereof ; or
c) to contribute such sum as the Register fit to the assets of the society by way of
compensation. Before making any such order against any person or group of persons
the Registrar shall give that person or group of persons an opportunity of being
heard and of showing cause such order should not be made.
(2) Where an order under Subsection (1) for the repayment of any sum to a registered
society, or for the contribution of any sum to its assets by way of compensation,
has not been completed with, such sum may be recovered by the Registrar on
application to the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in which the registered
place of business of the society is situated or in which the person or group of
persons or officer or employee against whom the order was made resides or carries
on business as though it were a fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate, on
such person or group of persons or officer or employee for an offence punishable
with fine only or not punishable with imprisonment, and the provisions of section
291 (except Paragraphs) (a) and (d) of sub section (1) of that section) of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall thereupon apply, and the Magistrate
may make any direction which, by the provisions of that section he could have made
at the time of imposing such sentence. Nothing in this section shall authorize or
require the Magistrate in any proceedings thereunder to consider, examine or decide
the correctness at any order made by the Registrar.
Special Power of
Minister to
exempt Societies
from provisions
of this statute
Registration of
use of word “Co-
operative”
Register may
order repayment
or restoration of
money or other
property due to a
society

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
32A
(3)  In case of collecting amounts under above section 2 the amounts should be sent to
commissioner for cooperative developments and registrar, the register should send
the collected amounts to the respective cooperative societies.
(4) Neither the preceding provisions of this section nor the making of any order
thereunder may be deemed or construed to preclude or otherwise effect the
institution or maintenance of a prosecution against any person or group of person,
or officer or employee referred to in Sub-section (1) in respect of any offence
under any other written law.
67. (1) Where the Registrar is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient to do so for the
purpose of ensuring efficient management of the affairs of registered society or
for purpose of safeguarding any investments or advances in  money or goods made
to such registered society by the Government or any State Bank or State Co-
operation, he may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this statute or any
other law or in the by - laws of such registered society nominate such number of
persons to be member of the committee of such registered society as are in his
opinion necessary or expedient for such purpose;
(2) (1)Provided that the number of such nominated members shall be less one half of
the total number of member of such Committee.
(3) (1) under the above section 1, five committee members could be appointed at least
two members should be officers from department of cooperative developments. In
case of a committee meeting members shall be less one half of the total number of
member of such Committee.
68. (1)  anasset and liability report of the registered society should be sent to the
commissioner for cooperative development in every financial year before the 31
st
of March,
(a) Full detail of his asset and liability report
(b) Full details of the wife/ husband asset and liability report
(c) Asset and liability report of his children
(2) The reports under the section 1 should be provided within the period of three month
of the appointment and the report after the first report could be handed over before
first of July of each year.
(3)  If the report was not handed over, the appointment could be removed due to the
non-handing over of the report
69. Notwithstanding anything in any other written law, the Registrar may, where he
considers it necessary to do so, require any bank
a)     to furnish any information regarding the transactions of any registered society with
the bank
b)     to produce a copy showing the amount of the society with the bank from the ledger
kept by the ban or
Nomination of
Members
Liability of
Officers etc. for
breach of trust
Project fund rules
and regulations

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
c)     to produce any cheques paid to the credit of the society or endorsed by the society.
70. It shall be lawful for the Registrar after accounts of a registered society have been
audited as provided in section 44 or after an inquiry under section 46 or an inspection
of books and investigation if affairs of a registered society has been held under
section 47, to require any person, being a person who is or has at any time been
entrusted with or being a person having, or at any time having had the dominion of,
any money, or any goods or property, in his capacity as an officer or a member or a
servant of the society, to pay over or produce such amount of money or balance
thereof or pay the value of such goods or property which is shown in the books of
accounts or statements kept or signed by such persons as held by or due from him
as such officer, member or servant ; and if such person upon being so required, fails
to pay over or produce such amount of money of balance thereof forthwith or the
value of such goods or property or to duly account thereof, he shall be guilty of the
offence of criminal breach of trust and shall on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding the years and shall also be liable to a fine, notwithstanding that such
punishment exceeds the ordinary jurisdiction of a Magistrate.
71. Notwithstanding anything in any other written law, the Registrar may, where he
considers it necessary to do so, require any bank
(a) To furnish any information regarding the transactions of any registered society
with the bank.
(b) To produce a copy showing the amount of the society with the bank from the ledger
kept by the ban or to produce any cheques paid to the credit of the society or endorsed
by the society.
CHAPTER  XVI
Remove and interim provisions
72. (1) Every society registered or deemed to be registered under Co – operative Societies
Law, No.05 of 1972, shall be deemed to be registered under this Status and the by –
laws of such society shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with the express
provision of this status, continue in force until altered or rescinded.
(2)  All rules made under Co – operative Societies Law, No. 05 of 1972, and in force at
the time of the commencement of this statue shall, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this statue, be deemed to have been made this
statue and shall continue in force until new rules are made under Section 61 in
substitution for those rules.
(3) All appointment and orders made, notification and notices issued, awards made by
arbitrators and decisions made by the Registrar, Co – operative Societies appointed
under Section 2, and suits and other proceedings instituted or deemed to have been
made, issued or instituted and all disputes that have arisen under Co – operative
Societies Law, No. 05 of 1972, shall be deemed to have been respectively made,
issued and instituted and to have arisen under this statue.
Responsibility of
the officers
forBreach of trust
Ordering details
from the banks by
the registrar
Remove and
interim provision
and ongoing
societies

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
34A
73. Where any registered society carrying on banking business of any kind has insured
under Part II of Chapter V B of the Monetary Law Act, the assets relating to the
deposits insured that Part, shall notwithstanding anything in any other provisions of
this statute not be utilized for any purpose other than to meet the liabilities relating
to such deposits.
74. If an investigation being made agenized a registered society under the section 1975
No. 15 of the Criminal cases under section XVII the registrar or a person who is
under registrar’s authority should be done.
75. (1) Every registered society or an officer or employee or member there of which or
who willfully neglects or refuses to do any act or to furnish any information required
for the purpose of this statute by the Registrar or other person duly authorized by
him in that behalf, and every person who willfully or without any reasonable excuse
disobeys any summons, requisition or lawful written order issued under the
provisions of this statute, or fails to furnish any information lawfully required from
him by a person authorized to do so under the provisions of this statute, and every
registered society or officer or employee or member there of which or who willfully
makes a false return or furnishes false information, shall be guilty of an offence
under this statute.
(2) Every person who commits any offence referred to in Sub – section (1) shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment of
either description for a period not exceeding two years or a fine not exceeding
twenty five thousand rupees (25,000/=), or to both such imprisonment and fine,
notwithstanding that such punishment exceeds the ordinary jurisdiction of a
Magistrate.
(3) Where any offence under this statue is committed by a registered society, every
officer of the society bound by the by – laws or the rules to perform any duty there
of the offence is a breach, or if there is no such officer, then every member of the
Committee, unless that member is proved to have been ignorant of or to have
attempted to prevent the commission of the offence, shall be liable to the same
penalty as if he had committed the offence.
76. The Minister may, by order published in the Gazette, exempt from the succeeding
Provisions of this statute.
    a)   Any such class of co – operative societies as shall be specified therein ; or
b) Any such co – operative society as shall be so specified.
And accordingly the expression “ Co – operative society ” where ver it occurs in
such provisions,shall be read and construed to mean a co – operative society in
respect of which any such order is not for the time being in force.
77 (1)  No persons other than a registered society shall, Without the sanction of the Minister
trade or carry on business under any name or title of which the word “Co-operative”,
or in Sinhala the words “Eksath Sahakara”(tlai;a iyldr) or “Samupakara” (iuqmldr)
or in Tamil the word “Aikkiya” (If;fpa) or “Kutturavu” ($l;LwT) from part:
Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to the use by any person or his
successor in interest of any name or title under which he traded or carried on business
prior to the twenty-second day of September. 1921.
Assets relating to
deposits insured
under monetary
law act not to be
utilized except for
meeting liabilities
Penalty for non-
compliance with
this statute
Penalty for non-
compliance with
rules and
regulations
The Protection of
the registrar and
the powered body
of the registrar
Regulations for
using the word
co-operative

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 12.09.2018
(2) Whoever contravenes the provisions of this section shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate Court to a fine which may extend to twenty five
thousand rupees (25,000/=), and in the case of a continuing offence, which a further
fine of thousand rupees (1,000/=) for each day on which the offence is continued
after conviction there for.
78. Company Acts and Trade union Acts are not according to a registered society.
79. After the approval of the governor of the central province and the date of the
validation of the said convention, the 1990/10 of central province convention and
1993/04 central province convention will be cancelled.
80. If this convention differs between the languages Sinhala / Tamil / English, the Sinhala
convention will be validated
81. “By-laws” means the registered by-laws for the time being in force and includes a
registered amendment of the by-laws.
”Committee” Means the governing body of a registered society to whom the
management of its affairs is extracted and includes the board of directors of a
registered society and persons appointed by the registrar under Sections 48.
”Officer” includes every person who is the President, Chairman, Vice Chairman,
Secretary, treasurer or Manager of a society or any other branch there of or a member
of a committee of a society and any other person who is duly empowered to give
directions in regard to the affairs of the society.
In this statute unless the context otherwise requires “Bank” means
(a) any person or body of persons corporate or incorporate which carries on in Sri
Lanka the business of accepting from the Public or creating, demand deposits.
(b) any agency or institution acting on behalf of the Government (whether established
any written law or otherwise) which make loans, advances or investments or accepts
deposits of money from the public:
(c) The Development Finance Corporation under the Development Finance Corporation
of Ceylon Act” and.
(d) Any other person or body of persons declared by the Minister in charge “Primary
Society” means are registered society not being a society established with any object
or for any purpose referred” to in paragraph (b),(c) of Section 3 (1).
“Registered Society” means a society registered or deemed to be registered under
this statute.
“Registrar” means the person appointed to perform the duties of the registrar of
co-operative societies of the Central Province Provincial Council under this statute.
“Rules” means rules made r deemed to have been under this statute “Minister” means
the Minister of the Central Province Provincial Council in-charge of Co-operative
development and other affairs connected with the same.
Company Acts
and Trade union
Acts are not
according to a
registered society
Cancellation of
convention act
no 1990/10 of Co-
operative
societies central
province
Definition
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.