

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1921$5 - 2015 cqks ui 29 jeks i÷od - 2015'06'29
No. 1921/5  -  MONDAY   JUNE  29,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
CENTRAL   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Statute  No. 04 of 2014 Pawn Brokers of the Central Province Provincial Council
I, do hereby append below to the notice of all,
The above statute passed on 07.04.2015 by Central Provincial Council of the Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka which was
sanctioned by H. E. Governor of the Central Province on 20.05.2015.
SARATH EKANAYAKE,
Chief Minister and  Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Local Government and Provincial Administration, Manpower,
Education, Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Lands, Cooperative Development,
Trade & Commerce, Food Supplies and
Distributional Affairs and Investment Coordination of the
Central Province Provincial Council.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Central Province Provincial Council,
03rd June, 2015.
PAWN  BROKERS  STATUTE  No.  04  OF  2014  OF   THE  CENTRAL  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
A statute for delegation of powers to the Commissioner of Revenue of the Central Province for registration and for
regulation of pawnbroker business and for making provisions for matters connected therewith or for matters incidental
thereto, except for the pawnbrokers business carried out by a Bank of  the Central Province. This statute is inconsistent with
the Pawnbrokers Ordinance No. 13 of 1942.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
2A
Be it passed by the Provincial Council of the Central Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka as follows:-
CHAPTER - I
GENERAL
1. This Statute may be cited as the Pawnbrokers Statute No. ............... of 2014 of the Central
Province Provincial Council and shall come and date into operation from the date of receiving
the assent of the Governor of the Central Province.
CHAPTER - II
PAWN BROKERS
2.(1) Pawn broker means a person, an institution, a joint company, a limited company, except a
bank registered under Finance Act, that keeps a shop for the purpose or sale of goods or for
taking in goods by way of security for money advanced thereon and purchases or receives
goods and pays or advances or lends thereon any sum of money, with an agreement or
understanding expressed of implied or to be from nature and character of the dealing inferred
reasonably that those goods may be afterwards redeemed or repurchased on any terms and
conditions.
(2) No person shall carry on the business of a pawnbroker on and after the determined date if
such person:-
(i) is an individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or
(ii) is a foreign company or
(iii) is a foreign firm
and accordingly any license to carry on such business, which was issued to any such
individual, foreign company, or foreign firm and was in force on the day immediately prior to
the determined date shall on and after such date be deemed to be null and void.
CHAPTER - III
REGISTRATION
3.(1) Every person who desires to obtain a licence of a pawnbroker under this statute shall apply
for registration and shall obtain the registration from the Commissioner of Revenue of the
Central Province prior to commencing such business. The provisions of Section 62 are
applicable for ongoing business to date.
(2) The first application for licence shall be treated as the first registration to carry on the
pawnbroker business according to provisions made under the succeeding Chapter iv called
''obtaining license.''
CHAPTER - IV
OBTAINING THE LICENCE
4.(1) No persons shall carry on a pawnbroker business or a place to carry on pawnbroker business
unless he holds a separate licence issued by the Commissioner of Revenue for each business
center or branch in respect of every business center or branch where pawnbroker business
is to be carried on.
(2) Every licence to be issued under above sub-Section (1) shall be according to the prescribed
form shown in schedules ''A" herein.
Short title and
date of
operation.
Certain persons
prohibited from
carrying on the
business of
Pawnbroker
Registration
before carrying
the business
Pawnbroker
shall obtain a
licence

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
(3) Every licence to be issued under above sub-section (1) shall be valid for the premises
mentioned therein and for  a period of one calendar year.
5.(1) The Commissioner of Revenue shall forward a copy of each and every licence issued under
above Section 4(1) to the Superintendent of Police in charge of the area within which such
business is to be carried on.
6. The hoder of a licence issued under Section 4(1) herein shall not transfer such business, to
which such licence relates without the written approval of the Commissioner of Revenue and
a transfer of such business without approval of the Commissioner shall be for all purposes null
and void.
7. No person shall be issued a licence to carry on the pawnbroker business unless such person
forward an affidavit to the Commissioner of Revenue to the effect that he has not committed
any illegal or unlawful act or that he has not been convicted in respect of such as offence and
if so he has no right to obtain a licence.
8.(1) Every person who desire to obtain a licence to carry on pawnbroker business in any premises
shall forward an application to  the Commissioner of Revenue accompanied by:
(a) Affidavit that he has not committed an illegal act or unlawful act or that he has not
been convicted of such an offence or default.
(b) A document prepared according to Section 44(1) of this Statute.
(c) Certificate of business registration joint business agreement certificate of registration
as a limited company.
(d) Where a pawnbroker maintains more that one pawnbroker center having more than
one branch of the same, he shall forward a separate application to the Commissioner
of  Revenue according to the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Revenue in
respect of each center or each branch separately.
(2) A pawnbroker shall forward an application to obtain a licence for pawnbroker business in
respect of succeeding calendar year prior to two (02) months of the date on which the
current licence is due to expire.
(3) First application for carrying out a pawn business is the initial registration to carry on the
pawn business and for this purpose a registration fee as determined by the Minister and
published in the Gazette shall be payable. In addition the amount specified under
sub-Section 10(2) shall also be payable subject to provisions under sub-Section 10 (3).
(4) Where a annual license is issued to a pawnbroker, who carries on a pawnbroker business
without renewing the annual license on the due date, the relevant license fee for every year
that he carried out the pawnbroker business and a detention fee of 50 percent (50%) of the
annual licensing fee shall be levied for every month that such person carried out the business.
(5) Where a annual license is issued to a pawnbroker, who carries on a pawnbroker business
without a license, the relevant licensing fee for every year that he carried out the pawnbroker
business and a detention fee of 50 percent (50%) of the relevant licensing fee shall be levied
for every year that such person carried out the business.
(6) Where an applicant has fulfilled the requirements in terms of this Statute and under the
regulations enforced under the same for obtaining a licence and it has not disqualified, the
Commissioner of Revenue shall not refuse to issue him a licence.
Copies of licence
to be sent to the
Supdt. of Police
Transfer of
licence without
prior approval
Revenue
Commission
Persons having
right to obtain a
licence

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
4A
Making appeal
to the Chief
Secretary
Forward annual
accounts when
applying for a
licence
Prohibition of
licence to certain
persons
Payments
security before
issue of licence
(7) Where a person forwards an application to carry on a pawnbroker business the
Commissioner of  Revenue shall be informed such applicant of his decision to
refuse the issue of licence with reasons within a period of 30 days.
(8) A person carries in a pawnbroker business is entitled to make a written
representation to Chief Secretary regarding any injustice caused to him in the
exercising the powers mentioned under Section 8(4) and 8(5), above with in a
period of 14 days. The decision of the Chief Secretary shall be final in this regard.
9. A pawnbroker when applying for a licence in respect of any calendar year shall be
forwarded to the Commissioner of Revenue 
an annual account of revenue of this
pawn business for the financial year immediately preceding.
10.(1) Any person who is prohibited from carrying on his pawnbroker business due the
implementation of provisions in this statute, a licence to carry on a pawnbroker
business shall not be issued on the due date or thereafter and any licence issued
to such person due to an error shall be treated as null and void for all purposes.
(2) Annual licence fee payable for a licence to be issued, and security amount to be
deposited by the  licence and the manner in which the security to be deposited, shall
be determined by a regulation published time to time in the gazette by the Minister.
(3) Amount or amounts of security payable by a licence as intimated to him by the
Commissioner of Revenue shall be deposited in an account of the National Savings
Bank to the credit of Commissioner of Revenue. Amount in deposit and or interest
thereon shall not be paid to the depositor except on closure or conveyance of
business. However
 if there is any amount payable to a pawner or pawners of
articles by the licencee, such amount shall be deducted from the security deposit
and its interest.
11. No person shall be issued a licence to carry on a pawnbroker business
(1) (a) If such person is convicted on any offence punishable under provisions of
this Statute and/or under provisions of Chapters xi, xiii, xvii or xviii of the Penal
Code, in any occasion, within five years immediately prio r to the date of
making an application to carry on a pawnbroker business and/or,
(b) If a licence issued to any person under this Statute or under Pawnbroker
Ordinance is cancelled under Section 12 of this Statute; and/or
(c) If he is a person whose name is published in the Government Gazette according
to Section 13(2) herein; and /or
(d) If the annual statement of accounts required under section 9 is not furnished
and/or
(e) If  documents required under provisions in Section 8 are not furnished and/or
(f) If he is an auctioneer.
12.(1) If the Commissioner of Revenue is satisfied that a person holding a licence under
Section 4, has acted in contravention of this Statute or regulations imforced under
this Statute, in respect of this business as a pawnbroker, during the period of
validity of licence, such person's licence may be revoked or cancelled.
However, the licencee shall be informed of such action before cancelling the licence
and he should be given two weeks time to represent matters against the same.
(2) Any one dissatisfied with the decision of the Commissioner of Revenue may
forward an appeal to the Chief Secretary within one month and the Chief Secretary
shall communicate his decision to the applicant within three months.
Cancellation of a
licence

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
Cancellation of a
licence
Publishing the
name and address
of licence in the
Gazette and
Newspapers
Notice of
Pawnbroker’s
absence from Sri
Lanka
Business hours
Languages to be
used in entering
particulars
(3) The Commissioner of Revenue shall be cancelled the licence of a pawnbroker, when a
pawnbroker or when he is not present, any of his employee or agent is convicted of an
offence in respect of this Statute, or in respect of a fraud in his business or in respect of
knowingly accepting stolen articles.
(4) Where a person holding a licence issued under Section 4 has violated this Statute or a
regulation imforced under this  Statute, as a pawnbroker, in respect of his business during
the period of validity of such licence, the Commissioner of Revenue is empowered to
suspend such licence if he is so satisfied.
13. The Commissioner of  Revenue shall be annually published in the Government Gazette and
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English news papers, a notice containing,
(1) Name of licenced pawnbroker, name of the business and the address of the premises where
the business is carried on
(2) Every occasion when convicted under Section 39 such person's name, private address,
name of business and the address where the business was carried out and if the period of
validity of a licence has expired and a licence for the following year is not issued.
CHAPTER - V
CONDITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LICENCEES
14. Every pawnbroker who intends to be away from Sri Lanka during any period exceeding
03 months shall be-
(a) Given a written notice of the intention to go abroad to the Commissioner  of Revenue
and further
(b) Nominated a person who is entitled under this Statute to carry out that pawnbroker
business and to act for him on his behalf during his absence in Sri Lanka and shall
obtain written approval of the Commissioner of Revenue for such absence.
15. No pawnbroker shall be accepted an article on pawn before 8.00 a.m. or after 8.00 p.m. on any
date.
16. No pawnbroker carrying out pawnbroker business shall act as or carry on the business of an
auctioneer.
17. Every pawnbroker shall -
(a) Displayed in legible characters over the outer door of his shop or place of business,
the name of his business, licence registration number and the word ''Pawnbroker" in
Sinhala Tamil and English and
(b) Displayed in a conspicuous place of his business place, so as to be clearly visible to
and be legible by every person visiting such place, a notice in Sinhala, Tamil and
English containing particulars set out in the 2nd schedule herein.
18. Where any particulars are required to be entered by this Statute, in any book, form or document
such particulars shall be entered in all the three languages namely, in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
19. Every pawnbroker shall be maintained and used in his business a pledge book, as in the form
"B" and a sale book of pledge as in the form "C" as set out in the first Schedule therein, and
shall enter therein in all relevant particulars time to time in a clear and legible manner when ever
as envisaged in terms of which provisions is made available in such forms and he shall make all
inquires necessary for the period in this regard.
Pawnbroker not
to act as an
auctioneer
Notices to be
exhibited by
Pawnbroker
Books to be kept
by Pawnbrokers

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
6A
Pawn receipt
Pawn receipt
20.(1)Every pawn receipt shall be written and signed in original and counterfoil as in the form "D" in
the first schedule shown herein in accordance with the directions contained in the said form.
(2) The particulars mentioned in the second Schedule shall be printed legibly in Sinhala, Tamil and
English on the reverse of the every pawn receipt.
(3) Where a pledge is pawned the foil of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge shall bear the
stamp duty to the prescribed value in the receipt. The expense incurred in providing such
stamps shall be borne by the pawnbroker.
(4) No any articles shall be or considered to be accepted in pawn unless and until-
(a) The pawner has signed the counter foil of the pawn receipt.
(b) The pawnbroker has signed the original foil of the pawn receipt, has given the foil to the
pawner and accepted by him.
(c) The pawner has received and accepted the original foil of the pawn receipt from the
pawnbroker and,
(d) annual interest is indicated in the pawn receipt.
21. No pawnbroker shall, in respect of a loan on a pledge, charge interest at a rate exceeding the
rates specified in the second Schedule.
Provided however, that where business turnover tax is payable in respect of a loan given on a
pledge, nothing included in the preceding provisions of this Section shall be deemed to
prohibit the pawnbrokers from recovering such tax from the pawner.
In this section ''pledge" includes a pledge which has been pawned and which has not been
redeemed before the due date.
 CHAPTER - VI
PLEDGES
22. Every pledge shall be redeemable within a period of 12 months (hereinafter in this Statute
referred to as the "period of redemption") from the date of pawning exclusive of the said date.
23. Notwithstanding anything in this Statute to the contrary, every pledge shall continue to be
redeemable until it is disposed of as provided under Section 32 of this Statute, although the
period of redemption has expired.
24.(1)The pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge, if he surrenders to the Pawnbroker original of
the foil of the pawn receipt  relating to the pledge and prove his identity and signs the foil in the
presence of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.
(2) A person other than the pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge, if such person surrenders to the
pawnbroker the foil of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge, duly signed by the pawner, and if such
person proves his identity and signs the foil in the presence of the pawnbroker, or his agent or servant.
(3) Where by reason of the death or a disability of the pawner, the holder of the original foil of  the
pawn receipt relating to the pledge, claims to be entitled to redeem the pledge, but is unable to
surrender to the pawnbroker the original foil of the pawn receipt duly endorsed and signed by
the pawner the pawnbroker shall permit the pledge to be redeemed, if such holder of the foil,
Pledges
redeemable
within 24
months

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
Keeping pawn
tickets illegal
manner
Compensation
for depreciation
of pledge.
Protection of
owners and of
pawners not
having tickets
Pawn ticket to
be retained by
the Pawnbroker
after redemption
of sale of Pledge
surrenders to him, the said foil of the pawn ticket relating to that pledge together with a
declaration in the form ''E" set out in the first Schedule, duly signed before a Justice of Peace
or a Commissioner of Oaths by such holder and by the person identifying him.
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-Sections (1), (2) and (3), the pawnbroker shall on payment of
loan, the interest due thereon and the tax if any payable in respect of such loan appropriately-
deliver the pledge to the pawner or holder of the pawn receipt relating to the pledge; the
pawnbroker is hereby indemnified in respect of such delivery of the pledge.
(5) Provided however, if  the pawn broker has reason to suspect that such holder has obtained the
possession of the pawn receipt illegally and by theft, or otherwise, the pawnbroker shall
immediately seize such person and the ticket, and hand over them to the police officer in charge
of the area where the pawnbroker centre is situated or to the Grama Niladhari as soon as
possilbe. If such person is delivered to the Grama Niladhari, he shall immediately produce such
person before the Police Station where the pawnbroker center  is situated along with the ticket.
Any person delivered in the above manner with the receipt shall forth with be produced before
a court of law having jurisdiction by the Police Officer in charge of the Police Station.
25. If a person entitled to redeem a pledge or a person offering to redeem a pledge shows to the
satisfaction of a civil court having jurisdiction that the pledge has become or has been rendered
of lesser value than its value at the time of pawning, by or through the default neglect or willful
misbehavior or by all these reasons, of the pawnbroker, the court, if it discuss to be fit, award
a reasonable compensation, to the satisfaction of the owner of the pledge and the amount of
compensation shall be deducted from  the amount payable to the pawnbroker, or shall be paid
by the pawnbroker is such manner as the court may direct.
26.(1)Any person claiming to be the owner of a pledge, but not holding the foil of the pawn ticket, or
any person claiming to be entitled to hold the foil of the pawn ticket, but alleges that the foil of
such ticket has been lost, stolen, misslaid, destroyed or fraudulently obtained from him, may
furnish to the pawnbroker a declaration in the form “E” set out in the first Schedule herein duly
declared before a Justice of Peace by himself and by the person identiying him as a witness,
and shall thereupon have as between himself and the pawnbroker, all the same rights and
remedies as if he produced the foil of the pawn ticket.
Provided however, that for the purpose of redeeming a pledge he shall sign the counterfoil of
the pawn ticket and not the foil thereof as required by Section 20.
(2) The pawnbroker is hereby indemnified from the responsibility being assigned under provisions in
Section of 26 (1) of delivering the pledge or acting in confirmation with the declaration, unless he is in
receipt of actual or convincible notice that the declaration is fraudulent or false in any material particulars.
27.(1)Where the foil of a pawn receipt is surrendered to the pawnbroker for the purpose redeeming
a pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession the foil and counterfoil of the pawn
ticket for a period of 24 months reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge.
(2) Where a pledge is redeemed without the surrendering of the foil of the pawn ticket relating to
the pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession for a period of twenty four months
reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge the counterfoil of the pawn ticket
relating to the pledge and the declaration furnished to him under Section 26(1) for the purpose
of such redemption.
(3) Where a pledge is sold under the provisions of this Statute, the pawnbroker shall retain in his
possession the counterfoil of the pawn tickets relating to the pledge for a period of 12 months
reckoned from the date of sale.
9 – PG  002133

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
8A
Application and
return of security
furnished by
Pawnbroker
Liquidations of
business and
payment balance
amount after
retaining the
interest
Liability of
Pawnbroker in
case of fire
Insurance Cover
Receipt of
Pawnbroker
Pledges to be
sold by auction
Notice of Sale
Procedure at sale
of Pledge for
more the amount
of the loan
interest and tax.
28.(1)Where in any circumstances any pledge is lost while in pawn with any pawnbroker, the present
market value of such pledge shall be payable to the pawner or to any other person entitled to
redeem such pledge, by the pawnbroker from the security retained with him.
(2) The amount payable under Section (1) above, the deficit amount from the security under
Section 10(2) shall be paid back by pawnbroker as an amount of security deposited. If the
amount payable under sub-Section exceed the security deposit, such amount which so exceeds
shall be paid in order to make payment to the pawner or to the person who is entitled to redeem
the pledge and in addition the security deposit under Section 10(2) shall also be deposited.
(3) Where a person ceases to carry on the business of a pawnbroker the amount of security
furnished by him and the accrued interest thereon shall be payable to such pawnbroker, after
deducting any amount due for payment of any sum mentioned under Section (1).
29.(1)Where a pledge is destroyed or damaged on consequence of fire, natural disaster or any other
consequence, the pawnbroker shall be liable on demand within the period of redemption to pay
the name of the pledge, after deducting the amount of loan and interest, and business turnover
tax if any, payable in respect of such loan.
30.(1)Every pawnbroker shall insure his business with full liability insurance cover, showing the full
value of the articles pawned with him and all articles and pledge intended to be pawned with
him in future.
(2) Every pawn broker is liable to take necessary steps to store the pawned articles in a safety
manner, assuring the standard of the articles without any harm to it.
31. Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of redemption of the pledge issue a receipt for the amount
of  loan and interest paid to him and the taxes if any recovered by him and a copy such receipt
shall be returned with here in the form “G” shown herein.
32.(1)Every pledge which is not redeemed within the period of redemption may be disposed by sale
through in a public auction; but shall not be disposed of otherwise and regulation in the third
schedule shall be adhered to in such sale.
(2) where a pledge is to be sold by public auction, under preceding provisions of this Section the
pawnbroker with whom such pledge has been pawned, shall give at least 60 days notice in
writing to the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, of the date and time fixed for such auction
sale and the place where-such auction sale is to be held. The Commissioner of  Revenue after
the lapse of a period of 15 days from the receipt of such notice shall inform his decision to the
pawnbroker before 21 days of the date remitted to hold the auction.
(3) where a pledge of a pawnbroker is to be sold under this statute, the pawner shall be informed
by registered post before 14 days of the date time and place of sale by through auction by the
pawnbroker, in terms of permission granted by the Provincial Commissioner of  Revenue.
33.(1)In every occasion where a pledge is sold under this Statute for a sum more than the amount of
the loan and interest due on the date of sale, added to any tax payable in respect of such loan,
the pawnbroker shall -
(a) forthwith inform the pawner of such pledge, the amount for which the pledge was sold,
and of the amount lying to the credit of the pawner after deducting the necessary costs
and charges of the sale and,
(b) Such amount shall be paid to the pawner, if he makes a demand within one year from the
date of such notice.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
Method of
notice under
Section 31 the
loan
Money deposited
in the Provincial
Council to the
credit of a
Pawner
Power of
inspecting sale
book and
accounts
Procedure to be
followed when
pawners do not
give a good
account of
themselves
(c) If no such demand is made within a period of one year as provided under section (b)
above, immediately after expiry of such period, the amount lying to the credit of the
pawner shall be entrusted to the Provincial Commissioner of  Revenue to be credited to
the Provincial Council Fund.
34.(1)The pawner shall forthwith be informed if any amount is deposited to credit of a pawner by the
Commissioner of Revenue under provisions of Section 33.
(2) where a request is made to the Commissioner of Revenue for the payment of the amount is
such notice within two years from the date of issue of the said notice, by the Commissioner of
Revenue under Section (1) above, such amount shall be paid to the person makes the request
within 30 days of receipt,
(3) If no request is received within the two year period as provided under Section (02), the
Commissioner of Revenue shall credit such amount that was to be payable to a pawner to the
Provincial Council Fund.
35. A pawnbroker may bid and purchase at a sale by auction, held or purporting to be held under
provisions of this Statute, a pledge pawned with him, and when so purchased he shall deemed
to be the absolute owner of such pledge.
CHAPTER - VII
INSPECTION - EXAMINA TION AND SEIZURE
36.(1)On any occasion within two years from the date on which a pledge is sold under provisions of
this statute, the holder of the pawn receipt may inspect the entry of the sale in the pawn
broker’s book and in the catalogue containing information about the auction sale authenticated
by the signature of the auctioneer, or either of the entries. The pawnbroker shall permit the
holder of the pawn receipt to inspect the entries of the sale in such book and in the catalogue
or either of them.
2. The Provincial Commissioner of Revenue of Deputy Commissioner of Revenue or/ and an
assessor authorized by him in writing shall here the authority to inspect accounts of business
of a pawnbroker.
37.Where any person -
(1) Not producing the National Identity Card, passport or driving licence when offering an
article on pawn or,
(2) Refusing or unable to provide a satisfactory account of the means by which he became
in possession of it, or
(3) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered on
pawn by such person is his own property or not, or as to his name and address; or
(4) Attempts and tries to redeem a pledge he is not entitled to redeem; or
(5) The pawn broker has reason to suspect that when an article is offered on pawn, the
same has been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained -
The pawnbroker may seize and detail the pawner and the pledge and hand them over to the
custody of a police officer or Grama Niladari as soon as possible. If an individual is handed
over for custody of a Grama Niladari he shall forthwith produce the person to the Police Station
where the pawnbroker business centre is situated, together with the pawn ticket.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
10A
Power to search
Pawnbroker’s
shop or centre
Offences by
Pawnbrokers.
Any person delivered to Police custody in any manner shall be produced before a court of law
having jurisdiction by the officer in-charge of the Police Station.
38. It shall be lawful for an officer of teh Provincial Public Service, or group of officers authorize by
the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, to enter  any pawnbroker’s shop or place of business
at any hour of the day time and examine and take necessary notes fo any article pledge with the
pawnbroker or any books an documents maintained by him. If the Commissioner fo Revenue
decides that the assistance of Police is necessary, a Police Officer may accompany the officer
or officers so authorized and attend to any matters or all matters herein mentioned.
No person shall resist any such officer or group of such officers in the execution of such
duties.
C
HAPTER - VIII
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
39. Every person who -
(a) Offers to a pawnbroker an article on pawn, but refuses or is unable to provide a
satisfactory account of the means by which he became in possession of such article; or,
(b) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker as to whether an article offered by him
on pawn to the pawnbroker is his own property or not, and as to his name address or as
to the name and address of the owner of such article; or
(c) Pawns with a pawnbroker, without any lawful excuse, the property belonging to another
person; or
(d) Attempts to redeem a pledge not being a person entitled to redeem such pledge.
(e) The pawnbroker has reason to suspect that when an article is offered on pawn, the same
has been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained and willfully and knowingly gives false
information regarding the same; or
(f) Contravenes any provisions of this Statute or fails to perform any act which is required
to be performed under provisions of this Statute shall be guilty of an offence.
40. Every pownbroker who -
(a) Accepts an article on pawn from any person appearing to be under the age of sixteen
years or be intoxicated; or
(b) Accepts an article on pawn without giving the pawner foil of the pawn receipt; or
(c) Purchase, take on pawn or exchange the foil of a pawn ticket issued by another
pawnbroker; or
(d) Employs any servant under the age of eighteen years to accept an article on pawn; or
(e) Purchase, except at a sale by auction under this Statute, any pledge when, in pawn with
the pawnbroker; or
(f) Make room for redemption of an article while in pawn with him with a view to purchasing
it; or
Offers by
Pawners and
other persons

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
Prohibition of
taking on
Pawn linen
clothing,
unfinished
goods
Offences
committed by
Pawnbrokers
Offences by
servant or
agent of
Pawnbroker
(g) Come into agreement with any person, pawing or offering to pawn any article, to sell or
to dispose such article within the period of redemption; or
(h) Come into agreement with any person, pawing or offering to pawn any article, to sell or
to dispose such article within the period of redemption; or
(i) Sell or otherwise dispose of any pledge pawned with him, except in such manner as is
authorized by this Statute or;
(j) Make any false entry in any book required to be kept by him under this Statute or
neglect to enter therein any entry which is required by this Statute; or
(k) Seize or detain any person under Section 22 or 24 (5) of this Statute without any
reasonable or justifiable cause; or
(l) Fail to have his business insured to the full extent of the liabilities of all pledge and
articles pawned and intended to obtain in pawn in future by him; or
(m) Contravene any provision of this Statute or neglects to carry out anything which he is
required to perform under this Statute; or
(n) Fail to forward the annual report on accounts to the Commissioner of Revenue under
provisions of Section 06 of this Statute -
(o) Contravene any of the provisions of this Statute - shall be guilty of an offence-
41. Every pawnbroker who knowingly accept on pawn any linen or apparel, or unfinished goods
or materials entrusted to any person to wash to clean, iron, mend, manufacture, workout, finish
or decorate shall be guilty of an offence. Where any court convicts any pawnbroker of an
offence under this Section, the court may in addition to any other punishment which such
court may impose for that offence, order the pawnbroker to restore the pledge to the owner in
the presence of court or in any other manner as the court may directs.
42. Every pawnbroker who neglects to deposit with the Provincial Commissioner of  Revenue the
amount lying to the credit of a pawner as required by Section 33(1) shall be guilty of an offence
and where any court convicts any pawnbroker for such offence, the court may, in addition to
any other punishment which it shall impose for that offence, order a sum equal to such amount
to be recovered from the pawnbroker as though in the form of a fine imposed by the court.
Every such sum of money when recovered by the court, should be deposited in the Provincial
Council fund to the credit of the pawner.
43. Anything done or neglected to be done by the servant or agent of a pawnbroker in the course
of carrying out the business or in relation to the business of a pawnbroker, shall be deemed to
be done or neglected, as the case may be, by the pawnbroker.
Provided however, where in the absence of a pawnbroker, from shop or place of business,
anything is done or neglected by any servant or agent of the pawnbroker contravening any
provision of this Statute, such servant or agent himself shall be guilty of an offence.
44.(1)Every person who is guilty of an offence under this Statute, when convicted after a trial before
a magistrate, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding Rs. 200,000/- or imprisonment for a period
not exceeding six months or both the fine and imprisonment. All amounts charged by a Court
under this sub paragraph, should be credited to the Provincial Council fund.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
12A
Articles
unlawfully
possess by a
pawnbroker
The need for
forwarding a
legal document
when
conveying a
business
(2) Court of law shall order, in respect of a pawnbroker who carry out his pawn business without
obtaining a licence, to pay arrears of annual licence fees and a sum equal to ten per-cent (10%)
of interest from such arrears as a fine, in addition to the punishments imposable under Sub-
Section (1) All sums of money charged by a court of law shall be credited to the Provincial
Council fund.
(3) Court of law shall order, in respect of a pawnbroker who carry out his pawn business without
renewing his annual  licence, to pay arrears due of annual licence fees and a sum equal to ten
per-cent (10%) of interest from such arrears as a fine, in addition to the punishments imposable
under sub-Section (1) All sums of money charged by a court of law shall be credited to the
Provincial Council fund.
(4) Where a pawnbroker is convicted for an offence committed - under Section 40, in addition to
any other punishment imposed for such offence, the court should order such pledge to be
delivered to the owner in the presence of court or in any other manner which the court may
direct in addition to the punishment under sub-Section (1) above.
(5) When convicted for an offence under Section 41 in addition to any other punishment imposed
for such offence, the court should order to pay an equal amount of such sum of money, in the
manner of recovering a fine from such pawnbroker, in addition to any punishment imposed
under sub-Section (1).
(6) The court has the authority to order the closure of pawn business of a pawnbroker in addition
to punishments imposable under sub-Section (1).
45. Whenever it is reported to a court of law that in any legal action filed under this Statute that a
pawnbroker is in unlawful possession of an article or several articles, then the court of law shall
order such article or articles to be produced before the court and make suitable orders that may
be considered necessary and under such orders if any, the court in empowered to order such
article or articles to be delivered to any person named by such court
CHAPTER - IX
TRANSFER AND CLOSURE OF BUSINESS
46.(1)Where a business of a pawnbroker is carried out by a single person, and if he intends to
convey it to someone after his death a legal document shall be prepared containing obligations
and be produced when applying for registration for lecence. However such person shall be
qualified to the issues a licence to carry on a pawn business under this statute.
(2) Where a business of a pawnbroker is carried out by a single person, and after his death when
the person entitled to carry on the business is found to be dead, a legal document containing
obligatory conditions, signed by the other person for and on behalf of deceased person, shall
be forwarded to the Commissioner of Revenue for registration.
(3) When no conveyance is made or the proposed conveyance person does not possess the
necessary requirements to do so, under sub-Section (1) the Commissioner of Revenue shall
appoint a person to liquidate the business.
(4) Where a pawnbroker is unable to carry on his business owing to any disability or any other
reason, person who safisfies  the Commissioner of  Revenue that he is qualified to be issued a
licence to carry on the business shall be conveyed with the assets and liabilities of such
business after obtaining the prior approval of the Chief Secretary.
When a pawnbroker business is conveyed accordingly the licence issued by the Commissioner
of Revenue which is currently valid, shall be treated as a licence having been issued to the
person to whom the assets and liabilities have been conveyed.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
Further such person shall be subject to all determinations under this Statute with effect from
the date of such conveyance.
(5) Where a pawn business is to be carried out on partnership basis, there shall be provisions in
the partnership agreement to protect the rights of pawners, when liquidating such business. If
the Commissioner is of opinion that such provisions have not been included in the partnership
agreement the issue of licence shall be refused.
47.(1)Where any person who carry on a pawn business intends to transfer such business a written
request shall be forwarded to the Commissioner prior to three months.
(a) When any person makes a written request to the Commission under sub-Section (1)
within seven days of such request, a public notice, mentioning the name and address
along with the National Identity Card number of the person intended to be conveyed
with the business shall be published in the business place and in the daily newspapers
in all the three languages.
(b) Wherever a written request is received for conveyance of a business the Commissioner
shall within seven days, inform the pawnbroker in writing -
(i) to stop accepting articles on pawn from a specific date;
(ii) to obtain and forward from the officer in charge of the police station where the
business place is situated, and from the officer in charge of the Police Station where
they permanent reside, certificates to the effect that there are no complaints against
the pawnbroker and the conveys.
(iii) to forward an affidavit that there is no legal action filed in courts against the pawnbroker
and the conveyer.
(iv) to forward all information in respect of all pledges remain to be redeemed and any
other information considered necessary.
(v) to forward an affidavit that the conveyer shall perform his functions according to
provisions of this statute from the date of conveyance of such business to him.
(c) If a person who is bound to make a request from the Commissioner of Revenue under
this Section is physically and mentally in a disabled condition and if such business is a
single individual owned business such request may be made by an authorized agent of
such person. If it is in case of a partnership business, any other partner, and in the case
of a limited company other Director or the Secretary may make such request.
(2) The Commissioner of Revenue shall inform his decision in writing to the person who make the
request for conveyance of a pawn business under sub-Section (1) above within three months
from the date of receiving such request.
48.(1)Any person carrying on a pawn business, intends to liquidate his business, a written request
shall be forwarded to Commissioner of Revenue before three months.
(2) When a person makes a written request to the Commissioner of  Revenue under sub-Section
(1) within seven days of such request, a public notice, mentioning such persons’ name and
address, number of the National Identity Card and numbers of the licence of the pawn business
shall be published in his business place and in the daily news papers in the all the three
languages regarding the liquidation of his business.
Conveyable of
a business
Liquidation of
business

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
14A
(a) Where a written request is received for liquidation of busines the Commissioner of
Revenue shall within seven days inform the pawnbroker -
(i) to stop taking articles on pawn from a specific date;
(ii) to obtain and forward from the officer in charge of the Police Station where the
business place is situated, and from the officer in charge of the Police Station where
they permanent reside, a certificate to the effect that there are no complaints against
him.
(iii) to forward all information in respect of all pledges remain to be redeemed and any
other information considered necessary.
(iv) to forward an affidavit that he will carry on the business until the date of redeeming
the last pledge.
(b) Where a person who is bound to make a request from the Commissioner of  Revenue
under this Section is physically and mentally in a disabled condition, and if such business
is a single individual owned, business, such request may be made by an authorized
agent of such peroson. If it is in case of a partnership any other partner, and in the case
of a limited company, other Director or the Secretary may make such request.
(3) The Commissioner of  Revenue shall inform his decision in writing to such person, for  liquidation
of pawn business under sub-Section above within three months from the date of receiving
such request.
49.(1)Whereupon the death of a person who carries on a pawn business under a licence issued upon
this Statute, all money and charges payable in respect of all time periods immediately before his
death, he had been living, shall be executed by his executors who shall be responsible for all
actions, matters and things of the deseased under this Statute.
Provided however -
(a) No legal action shall be filled against executors in respect of any action or default of the
deceased person.
(b) An executor shall not be ordered to pay any sum money payable in respect of any
period before the death of such person after the expiry of three years from the date of
his death.
(c) The responsibility of an executor under this section shall be limited to -
(i) Estate of the deceased person which the executor possessed and was under his
control at the date of delivery of such notice to him regarding any binding arising
under the provisions of this statute.
(ii) To an amount of any share a beneficiary may receive from such property estate.
CHAPTER - X
MAKING REGULA TIONS
50.(1)The Minister may make regulations to activate the provisions of this statute from time to time
in respect of the under mentioned matters.
(a) Registration fees to carry on a pawn business under sub-Section 8(3)
Death of  a
owner of a
business
Enforcing
regulations

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
(b) Annual licensing fees, and security deposit to be furnished by a licencee, and the manner
of depositing security fees under sub-Section 10(2).
(2) All regulations made under sub-Section (1) shall be effective from the date of publication in the
Gazette or from a later date which may be specifically mentioned in that regulation and such
order shall be forwarded to the Provincial Council by a proposal as soon as possible from the
date it is published in the Gazette.
(3) Any regulations when refuses to be approval by the Provincial Council, such regulation shall
be considered null and void from the date of such refused without any harmful effect to the
same up to the date of such refusal; and there shall be published a notification in the Gazette
in respect of the date on which such regulation is considered null and void.
CHAPTER - XI
RECOVERY OF AMOUNTS IN ARREARS
51.(1)For the purpose of this chapter “Arrears of money” includes any amount of security payable
by a pawnbroker or any arrears of fees under Section 8 (4) (5) or any sum of money payable
under sub-Sections 10(3), 28(1) (2) and Section 31.
(2) Commissioner of Revenue shall inform the pawnbroker by registered for payment of an amount
in arrears before a date specifically mentioned in the notice and action shall be taken to recover
such an unpaid amount as a defaulted amount in arrears.
(3) (a) When there is a default of payment an amount under sub-Section (2) the Commissioner
of Revenue before taking action to recover such amount in any manner according to
foregoing provisions a letter or a notice shall be issued to the defaulter under registered
post stating -
(i) the details of the amount in arrears.
(ii)the intention of taking action to recover the amount in arrears.
(b) Such person in receipt of a notice issued by the Commissioner of Revenue under
sub-Section (3) (a) may forward any objection if any within two weeks of the date of
receipt of such notice and the Commissioner shall consider such objection and shall
inform his decision in writing such decision shall be final and conclusive.
52.(1)For the purpose of  recovering any amount of arrears payable under this Statute, the
Commissioner of Revenue may issue a certificate, to the magistrate of the court having
jurisdiction over the division on which the place is situated, showing the amount of arrears and
the name of person who defaulted the payment of arrears and his last place of residence. Then
the magistrate shall summon before him the person who defaulted such payment to show
cause why legal proceedings shall not be taken against him and to present any such reasons
if any. If such person fail to show ample reasons for defaulting such payment, for an offence
punishable by imposing only a fine or by imprionment, or for an offence not punishable by
imprisonment, it shall be considered as a fine imposed upon defaulted person by the magistrate
and provisions of sub-Section (1) of Section 291 except paragraph (a) (b) of the Penal Code No.
15 of 1979, there-upon shall apply in respect of defaulting payment of a fine imposed upon
such person. And the magistrate may make any direction which by the provision of that
section, he could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
16A
(2) Nothing under sub-Section (1) shall authorize or require the magistrate in any proceeding there
under to question the correctness of a certificate or statement of the Commissioner of Revenue.
Accordingly anything in that section shall not be understood as having empowered the
magistrate to consider or decide the correctness of such certificate or statement.
(3) Any provision of sub-Section (2) to (5) of Section 291 of the Penal Code No. 15 of 1979, shall
not apply to any situation mentioned under sub-Section (1) herein.
(4) In any situation where a defaulter is sentenced to imprisonment of account of non-payment of
a fine considered imposed under such sub-Section upon a person who has defaulted payment
as mentioned under sub-Section (1), the magistrate can give time to pay the amount or order
that such sum of money to be paid in installments.
(5) As provided under Section (1) when a defaulted person is given time to show cause under that
Section or ordered to keep security as a pre-condition for giving him time for payment of a fine
under sub-Section (4) the provisions of chapter XXXIV of the Penal Code No. 15 of 1979 shall
apply.
(6) Where a magistrate has made an order that a payment of an amount in default be paid in
installments under sub-Section (4) and upon defaulting payments of such an installment legal
proceeding shall be instituted as having defaulted all installments that remains unpaid.
(7) In any legal proceedings under sub-Section (1) the certificate of the Commissioner of Revenue
shall be an ample evidence, that a proper order has been made to pay the rate and had defaulted
payments of such amounts; and any type of answers filed 
 to showing that fees are excessive
and false and such appeals made against shall not be considered or accepted.
53. Where the Commissioner is of opinion that the recovery of an amount in arrears  as provided
under Section 53 is not practicable or in not suitable, a certificate containing details of arrears
name or names of persons from whom payments are due, shall be issued to the District Court,
having jurisdiction, over the area where the said defaulter resides or where a movable or
immovable property belonging to such person is situated. Then the District Court shall direct
and authorize the fiscal officer to issue a writ order and enter a caveat to prohibit and seize all
movable or immovable properties or any one of them owned by him, which the court shall
consider shall be necessary to recover such defaulted amount. Provisions in sections 226 to
297 of Civil Procedure Code with necessary changes shall apply in respect of such prohibition
and sale.
For the purpose of this Section movable property includes equipment and machinery.
CHAPTER - XII
GENERAL CONDITIONS
54.(1)For the purpose of this Statute the Commissioner of Revenue by written notice require any
person to -
(i) Produce specified books, accounts trading lists stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque
books, pawn tickets, pledge books, audit reports or any other documents mentioned
in such notice, owned by such person, within a specified period of time.
(ii)Supply any information
(iii) Be present at a time, date and place mentioned in the notice, by himself or to be
represented by an authorized person to check any matter or any matters.
Authority for
requiring
information

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
(2) When a notice is served upon any person to furnish any information mentioned under
sub-Section (i) and (iii) such person shall act in accordance with such directions contrary to
whatever is mentioned under any other written law.
(3) Any books, accounts, trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque books, pawn
tickets, pledge books, audit reports, or other documents when produced to the Commissioner
of Revenue, or when being produced or taken into his possession by any other manner, as and
When required to be kept in his possession for a certain period, for purposes of this Statute
they may be kept in his possession in terms of such requirement.
(4) Any notice sent by post shall be considered as having after handed over the laps of after 3
days from the date of posting.
55. Filling any legal action for any offence under this Statute shall not be done without the
approval of the Commissioner of Revenue.
56.  The Commissioner of Revenue shall determine from time to time the forms to be used for the
purpose of performing duties under this statute. The Commissioner may amend or alter from
time to time the forms and or registers so determined or substitute any other forms or registers
so determined.
57. Every person appointed under this Statute or considered to have been appointed so, or every
person employed or being employed to assist any person for the purpose of carrying out or to
carry out the functions and provisions under this Statute, shall protect and safeguard the
secrecy in respect iof all matters known to him concerning any person’s duties and activities
performed under provision of this Statute, except when, in the performance of his own duties
and such fact or information shall not be conveyed to anyone except to the person to whom it
is relevant or to his authorized representative, or to the Minister, or to the Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance, or to his authorized representative and shall not allow and keep room, or
permit any person to obtain any document whatsoever in the possession, custody and in the
control of the Commissioner of Revenue.
58. Any function or anything whatever is authorized to be exercised by a pawnbroker, under this
Statute may be so exercised by a servant or an agent of a pawnbroker with his permission.
59. Any authority function or duty stipulated under this Statute may be carried out and exercised
by a Deputy Commissioner, Assessor and Public Officer with the written authority granted
under the signature of the Commissioner of Revenue any authority, function or duty delegated
to the Commissioner of Revenue as mentioned  is this Statute may be withdrawn an acquired
back to him.
60. For the purpose of issuning alicence 
to any person to carrying on the business of  pawnbroker
or any prosecution instituted against any person for any offence unde this Statute the
responsibility of proving that such person is a citizen of Sri Lnka, or is not a foreign companion,
foreign firm, shall be vested with such person.
61. For the purpose of this Statute any person who, purchases or receives or takes in goods and
pays, or advances or lends thereon any sum of money under an agreement or understanding
repressed or implied, or be form the nature and character of the transaction reasonably inferred
that those goods may be redeemed or purchased on any conditions; or who maintain a shop
for the purchase or sale of goods or for taking goods by way or security for money advanced
thereon; shall be considered as a person carrying on the pawn business and further every
such transaction, article payment advance and loan shall be deemed a pawning, pledge and
loan within this Statute.
Delegation of
powers under
this Statute
Burden of
proving
Shop keepers
deemed to be
as Pawn
brokers

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
18A
62. Not withstanding anything contained adversely in this statute,
(a) It shall be considered that any licence issued under the Pawn Brokers Ordinance (Chapter
99) is within the Central Province.
(b) It shall be assumed that the provisions complied under this Statute shall be treated as
the substitute provisions in case of detachment of any provisions in the said Ordinance.
(c) It shall be assumed that any case filed in a court under the Ordinance, prior to the date
of proceed or in case of an order delivered by a Magistrate shall be treated as the case
filed under the Statute and the order delivered under this Statute.
CHAPTER - XIII
INTERPRET ATIONS
63. In this Statute, unless the contest otherwise requires -
“Governor” means the Governor of Central Province.
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in the Central Provincial
Council.
“Chief Secretary” means the Chief secretary to the Central Province.
“Central Province Revenue Commissioner” mean the Commissioner of Revenue of the Central
Province, appointed for the purpose of this Statute and the interpretation in the Finance
Statute No. 17 of 1990 applies.
“Police Officer” means the officer in charge of the Police Station in the area where the business
place is situated.
“Deputy  Commissioner” means the interpretation mentioned in the Finance Statute No. 17 of
1990, of the Central Province.
“V aluer” means the interpretation mentioned in the Finance Statute No. 17 of 1990 of the
Central Province.
“Foreign Company” means any company or board of individuals incorporated outside Sri
Lanka and is any company or board of individuals that -
(a) Establish a business place within Sri Lanka after specified date.
Establish a business place within Sri Lanka before specified date and continuously
maintain a business place in Sri Lanka.
“Specified date” means the date of enforcing this Statute.
“Sri Lankan Citizen” means any individual who by birth or prevailing law becomes a citizen of
Sri Lanka.
“District” means the administrative District.
“Foreign Firm” means a firm -
(i) Consisting of two partners, one of whom is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or both of whom
are not Sri Lankans; or
(ii)Consisting of more than two partners at lease one of whom is not a citizen of Sri
Lanka.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
“Month” means a period of  30 days for the purpose of charging profits and interest.
“Calender Year” means period commencing from 1st January and ending on 31st December of
every year.
“Financial Year” means period commencing from 1st April and ending on 31st March of every
year.
“Person” means any individual Board of individuals, company or Department.
“Pawner” means a person delivering an article for pawn to a pawnbroker.
“Pledge” means an article pawned with a pawnbroker.
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Central Province.
“Provincial Council Fund” means the Provincial Council Fund of the Central Province
established under Section (19) of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
“Business Place” means a House, Store house, Shop, Company, Joint business, Partnership
business and place where business activities are carried out and any of the places where such
branches are maintained.
“Unfinished goods” includes any goods of any manufacture of branch of any manufacture,
either mixed or separate or any materials, whatsoever, intended for composing or manufacture
of any goods after such goods or materials are put into a state of manufacture, and before the
same are completed or finished for the purpose of wearing or consumptions.
“Executor” means a executor of a deceased person or an administrator and includes -
(a) A person who is in custody of a deceased person’s property or who makes use of such
property.
(b) A person who has made submission to District Court to issue a probate certificate or
administrator certificate in respect of the estate of a deceased person.
(c) Trustee who acts upon a trusteeship of a last will.
“Sub-agent” a person who is in charge of operation, administration and management of a
business for all on behalf of any other person.
“Authorized agent” means for the purpose of this Statute a person authorized in writing to act
on his behalf and an individual is -
(i) A relation of his in respect of an individual;
(ii) A partnership in respect of a partnership business;
(iii) A director or secretary in respect of company;
(iv) A member of  a board of individuals in respect of a board of individuals;
(v) A member of the Sri Lanka Chartered Accountant Institute;
(vi) An Attorney at law.
“Registered Bank” means a licensed Commercial Bank as defined means in the Banking Act, of 1988.
64. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Statute the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
in any
inconsistancy
the Sinhala text
to prevail

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
20A
(Section 04)
FIRST  SCHEDULE
Form - “A”
LICENCE
Number: .........................................................
I, the Commissioner of Central Provincial Revenue do hereby issue a licence under provisions of the Pawnbrokers Ordinance
of the Central Province, No............................... to carry-out a Pawnbrokers business at the
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................address
to ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
of .................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The validity of this licence expires on ......................................................
Date: ..........................................................                                                                   .................................................................
Commissioner of Provincial Revenue
(Rubber Stamp)
(Section 19)
Form - “B”
PLEDGE  BOOK
Pledge Book of ................................................................................. Pawn broker of .........................................................................
No. and date of the issue of pawn tickets
No. of pledge in the month
Amount of Loan upon each article
Profit of interest charged upon each article
Name of Pawner
Addresses of Pawner
Name of owner it Pawner is not the owner
Description of Each article Pawned
Weight of article it jewellery
V alue of each article Pawned
Date of redemption
Name and address of person redeeming
Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
(Section 19)
Form - “C”
SALE  BOOK  OF   PLEDGES
Pledge Book of ................................................................................. Pawn broker of .........................................................................
  Date and Place of Sale : ........................................................................................................
  Name and address of Auctioneer : ........................................................................................................
No. of Date of Name of Amount of Amount of Amount for Name &
Pledge as in Pawning Pawner Loan interest due which pledge Address of
pledge was sold by Purchaser
Book Auctioneer
Rs. Cts Rs. Cts Rs. Cts
(Section  20)
Form - “D”
PAWN  RECEIPT
Counter foil No. ........................................ Original foil No. ............................................
(to be retained by pawnbroker) Date: ............................................................
......................................................................
Date: ..................................... ......................................................................
(Name and address of pawner) has this
day pawned with the undersigned
Name and address of pawnbroker
......................................................................... ...................................................... .........
......................................................................... ...................................................... .........
......................................................................... (Name and address of pawn broker)
I, ....................................................................... ...............................................................
the undersigned holding National Identity worth Rs. ..........................................for
Card No. ......................................................... Rs. ...........................................................
of (address of Pawner)
...........................................................................
...........................................................................
.......................................................................... Signature of Pawnbroker or Servant or
have this day pawned with the aforesaid Agent of pawnbroker.
pawnbroker .................................................... Name ........................................................
......................................................................... ....................................................................
worth Rs. ........................................................ Signature .................................................
for Rs. ............................................................. (Left thumb impression if unable to sign)
..................................................
Signature.
(Rubber Stamp)

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
22A
(Section  24)
Form - “E”
DECLARA TION  WHERE  THE  FOIL  OF  THE  PAWN  RECEIPT  IS  SURRENDERED  UNDER  SECTION  24
WITHOUT  THE  SIGNATURE  OF  THE  PAWNER  ENDORSED  THEREON
I, ............................................................................... holding National Identity Card No./ Passport No. ...................... of .............
...........................................................................................(A/B) in pursuance of Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that ........................................................... pledge at the shop of ............................................. Pawnbroker, the article/articles
described below and received the foil of a pawn receipts for the same and that for the purpose of redeeming the pledge, I am
unable to surrender the foil of the pawn receipt to the Pawn broker with the signature of the said (Pawner) duly endorsed
thereon, because the said ..................................... (Pawner) is dead/Under a legal disability to wit ............................................(nature
of legal disability).
Signature of  “A” “B” .........................................
The article/ Articles above
referred to is/are .....................................................................................................................................
I, (‘‘C ”, “D”) ............................................... in pursuance of the provisions of the said Statute, do solemly and sincerely declare
that I know the person making the foregoing declaration to be (‘‘A ”, “B”) ....................................................................  of .............
.................................................................................................................................
Signature of  “C ”, “D”.........................................................
Declared before me this .............................. day of 20 .................................................................
............................................................
Justice of Peace.
(Rubber Stamp)

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
(Section  26)
Form - “F”
DECLARATION  WHERE  THE  FOIL  OF  THE  PAWN  RECEIPT  IS  LOST  ETC.
Take, if this Declaration is false the person making the Declaration is punishable.
I, ............................................................................... holding National Identity Card No./ Passport No. ...................... of .............
...........................................................................................(A/B) in pursuance of  Pawnbrokers Statute, do solemnly and sincerely
declare that ........................................................... pledge at the shop of ............................................. Pawnbroker, the article/
articles described below and received the foil of a pawn receipts for the same and that for the purpose of redeeming the
pledge, I am unable to surrender the foil of the pawn receipt to the Pawn broker with the signature of the said (Pawner) duly
endorsed thereon, because the said ..................................... (Pawner) is dead/Under a legal disability to wit
............................................(nature of legal disability).
Signature of  “A” “B” .........................................
The article/ Articles above
referred to is/are .....................................................................................................................................
I, (‘‘C ”, “D”) ............................................... in pursuance of the provisions of the said Statute, do solemly and sincerely declare
that I know the person making the foregoing declaration to be (‘‘A ”, “B”) ....................................................................  of .............
.................................................................................................................................
Signature of  ‘‘C ”, “D”.........................................................
Declared before me this .............................. day of 20 .................................................................
............................................................
Justice of Peace/Commissioner of Oath
(Rubber Stamp)
(Section  31)
Form - “G”
RECEIPT
Date: ......................................
Received on redemption of pledge No. ...................................................................................................................................................
Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.
Amount of Loan .......................... ..............................
Profit or interest .......................... ..............................
Business Turnover Tax .......................... ..............................
. ...........................................................
Pawn broker’s Signature

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'06'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.06.2015
24A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
(Section  20)
SECOND  SCHEDULE
Rate of Interest
The rate of interest on every rupee or a fraction of a rupee lent shall be two cents for every month or part thereof.
Payment of Tax
Where a tax under any written Law is payable by the Pawnbroker on a Loan granted upon a pledge, such tax may be
recovered from the pawner.
Restricting recovery of entranced interest
Where Pawnbroker is entitled to enhanced interest as from any date, such enhanced interest shall not be recoverable,
if the pawner shows to the satisfaction of a Civil Court, having jurisdiction, that he failed to redeem the pledge
before such date, on account of the reason that the pawnbroker’s shop remained closed between 8.00 a. m. and 8.00
p.m. on the day preceding such date.
If the pledge relating to the pawn ticket is not redeemed within a period of twelve months from the day of pawning
it is liable to be sold by Public auction.
If there be any surplus profit realized at the sale and is not claimed by the pawner within one year from the date of
such sale, the said profit shall be deposited to the credit of the pawner in the Provincial Council Fund.
(Section  32)
THIRD   SCHEDULE
Regulations relating to Auction of  Pledges
(1) The auctioneer shall cause all pledges to be exposed to Public view.
(2) Auctioneer shall publish catalogue of the pledges containing -
(a) The pawn broker’s name and place of  the business
(b) The month in which each pledge was pawned.
(c) The number of each pledge as entered in the pledge book at the time of pawning.
(3) The pledges of each Pawnbroker in the catalogue book shall be shown separately from any pledges of any
other Pawnbroker.
(4) The Auctioneer shall give notice of the sale by publishing advertising in at least one each of Sinhala, Tamil
and English Newspapers and notices shall be displayed in places people gather within the area where the sale
is to be held. Such advertisements shall include following particulars.
(a) the pawnbroker’s name and place of business; and
(b) the month in which the pledges were pawned.
(5) The advertisement shall be published on two days in the same news papers, and the second advertisement
shall be published at lease ten clear days before the first day of sale.
(6) Whenever a Pawnbroker bids at a sale, the auctioneer shall not take the bidding in any other form, than that
in which he takes the biddings of other persons at the same sale. And when a pawnbroker buys an article the
auctioneer shall forthwith declare audibly the name of the Pawnbroker as the purchasing the said article.
(7) The auctioneer shall within 14 days, deliver to the pawnbroker a copy of the catalogue, relating to the pledges
of that pawnbroker giving the amount for which the pledges of that pawnbroker were sold and authenticated
by his signature.
(8) The Pawnbroker shall preserve every such catalogue at lease for two years after the auction.
07 - 615