

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2123$70 - 2019 uehs ui 16 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'05'16
No. 2123/70  -  THURSDAY,  MAY 16,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT, No. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Amendments to SLFRS 3 Business Combinations (Definition of a Business)
with effect from 01
st January 2020, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Stan-
dards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Amendments shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on
or after the first day of January Two Thousand Twenty. Earlier application is permitted.
By Order of the Council,
P
RASANNA LIYANAGE,
 Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
16
th May, 2019
N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.
1A - PG 4755 - (03/2020)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'16 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2019  
 
Definition of a Business 
Amendments to SLFRS 3 
Amendments to SLFRS 3 Business Combinations 
 
Paragraph 3, the definition of the term ‘business’ in Appendix A and paragraphs B7–B9, B11 and B12 are 
amended. Paragraphs 64P, B7A –B7C, B8A and B12A –B12D, and headings above paragraphs B7A, B8 
and B12, are added. Paragraph B10 is deleted. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.  
 
Identifying a business combination 
3 An entity shall determine whether a transaction or other event is a business combination by 
applying the definition in this SLFRS, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed constitute a business. I f the assets acquired are not a business, the reporting entity shall 
account for the transaction or other event as an asset acquisition. Paragraphs B5–B12B12D provide 
guidance on identifying a business combination and the definition of a business.  
 
Effective date and transition 
Effective date 
 ...  
64P Definition of a Business , issued in November 2018, added paragraphs B7A –B7C, B8A and B12A –
B12D, amended the definition of the term ‘business’ in Appendix A, amended paragraphs 3, B7 –B9, 
B11 and B12 and  deleted paragraph B10. An entity shall apply these amendments to business 
combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting 
period beginning on or after 1 January 2020 and to asset acquisitions that occur on or after the beginning 
of that period. Earlier application of these amendments is permitted. If an entity applies these 
amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'16    3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2019  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A 
 
Defined terms 
 
...   
business An integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and 
managed for the purpose of providing goods or services to customers, generating 
investment income (such as dividends or interest) or generating other income from 
ordinary activities a return in the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic 
benefits directly to investors or other owners, members or participants. 
 
Definition of a business (application of paragraph 3) 
 
B7 A business consists of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create contribute 
to the creation of  outputs. Although businesses usually have outputs, outputs are not required for an 
integrated set to qualify as a business. The three elements of a business are defined as follows  (see 
paragraphs B8–B12D for guidance on the elements of a business): 
 
(a) Input: Any economic resource that creates  outputs, or has the ability to create, contribute to the 
creation of outputs, when one or more processes are applied to it. Examples include non -current 
assets (including intangible assets or rights to use non -current assets), intellectual property, the 
ability to obtain access to necessary materials or rights and employees. 
 
(b) Process: Any system, standard, protocol, convention or rule that , when applied to an input or 
inputs, creates outputs or has the ability to create contribute to the creation of  outputs. Examples 
include strategic management processes, operational process es and resource management 
processes. These processes typically are documented, but the intellectual capacity of an organised 
workforce having the necessary skills and experience following rules and conventions may provide 
the necessary processes that are capable of being applied to inputs to create outputs. (Accounting, 
billing, payroll and other administrative systems typically are not processes used to create outputs.) 
 
(c) Output: The result of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that provide or have the ability 
to provide a return in the form of dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits directly to 
investors or other owners, members or participants  goods or services to customers, generate 
investment income (such as dividends or interest) or generate other income from ordinary activities. 
 
Optional test to identify concentration of fair value 
 
B7A Paragraph B7B sets out an optional test (the concentration test) to permit a simplified assessment of 
whether an acquired set of activities and  assets is not a business. An entity may elect to apply, or not 
apply, the test. An entity may make such an election separately for each transaction or other event. The 
concentration test has the following consequences: 
 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'16 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2019  
 
(a) if the concentration test is met, the set of activities and assets is determined not to be a business 
and no further assessment is needed. 
 
(b) if the concentration test is not met, or if the entity elects not to apply the test, the entity shall then 
perform the assessment set out in paragraphs B8–B12D. 
 
B7B The concentration test is met if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is 
concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets. For the concentration 
test: 
 
(a) gross assets acquired shall exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, and goodwill 
resulting from the effects of deferred tax liabilities. 
 
(b) the fair value of the gross assets acquired shall include any consideration transferred (plus the 
fair value of any non -controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held interest) in 
excess of the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired. T he fair value of the gross assets 
acquired may normally be determined as the total obtained by adding the fair value of the 
consideration transferred (plus the fair value of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of 
any previously held interest) t o the fair value of the liabilities assumed (other than deferred tax 
liabilities), and then excluding the items identified in subparagraph (a). However, if the fair value 
of the gross assets acquired is more than that total, a more precise calculation may sometimes be 
needed. 
 
(c) a single identifiable asset shall include any asset or group of assets that would be recognised and 
measured as a single identifiable asset in a business combination. 
 
(d) if a tangible asset is attached to, and cannot be physically remov ed and used separately from, 
another tangible asset (or from an underlying asset subject to a lease, as defined in SLFRS 16 
Leases), without incurring significant cost, or significant diminution in utility or fair value to 
either asset (for example, land a nd buildings), those assets shall be considered a single 
identifiable asset. 
 
(e) when assessing whether assets are similar, an entity shall consider the nature of each single 
identifiable asset and the risks associated with managing and creating outputs f rom the assets 
(that is, the risk characteristics). 
(f) the following shall not be considered similar assets: 
 
(i) a tangible asset and an intangible asset; 
 
(ii) tangible assets in different classes (for example, inventory, manufacturing equipment and 
automobiles) unless they are considered a single identifiable asset in accordance with the 
criterion in subparagraph (d); 
 
(iii) identifiable intangible assets in different c lasses (for example, brand names, licences and 
intangible assets under development); 
 
(iv) a financial asset and a non-financial asset; 
 
(v) financial assets in different classes (for example, accounts receivable and investments in 
equity instruments); and 
 
(vi) identifiable assets that are within the same class of asset but have significantly different 
risk characteristics. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'16    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2019  
 
 
 
B7C The requirements in paragraph B7B do not modify the guidance on similar assets in LKAS 38 Intangible 
Assets; nor do they modify the meaning of the term ‘class’ in LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, 
LKAS 38 and SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. 
 
 Elements of a business 
 
B8 Although businesses usually have outputs, outputs are not required for an integrated set of activities and 
assets to qualify as a business. To be capable of being conducted and managed for the purposes defined 
purpose identified in the definition of a business , an integrated set of activities and assets requires two 
essential elements—inputs and processes applied to those inputs, which together are or will be used to 
create outputs. However, a A business need not include all of the inputs or processes that the seller used 
in operating that business if market participants are capable of acquiring the business and continuing to 
produce outputs, for example, by integrating the business with their own inputs and processes. However, 
to be considered a business, an integrated set of activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an 
input and a substan tive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output. 
Paragraphs B12–B12D specify how to assess whether a process is substantive. 
 
B8A If an acquired set of activities and assets has outputs, continuation of revenue does not on its own 
indicate that both an input and a substantive process have been acquired. 
 
B9 The nature of the elements of a business varies by industry and by the structure of an entity’s operations 
(activities), including the entity’s stage of development. E stablished businesses often have many 
different types of inputs, processes and outputs, whereas new businesses often have few inputs and 
processes and sometimes only a single output (product). Nearly all businesses also have liabilities, but 
a business nee d not have liabilities. Furthermore, an acquired set of activities and assets that is not a 
business might have liabilities. 
 
B10 An integrated set of activities and assets in the development stage might not have outputs. If not, the 
acquirer should consider other factors to determine whether the set is a business. Those factors include, 
but are not limited to, whether the set: 
 
(a) has begun planned principal activities; 
 
(b) has employees, intellectual property and other inputs and processes that could be applied to those 
inputs; 
 
(c) is pursuing a plan to produce outputs; and 
 
(d) will be able to obtain access to customers that will purchase the outputs.  
 
 Not all of those factors need to be present for a particular integrated set of activities and assets in the 
development stage to qualify as a business. [Deleted] 
 
B11 Determining whether a particular set of activities and assets and activities is a business should shall be 
based on whether the integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed as a business by a 
market participant. Thus, in evaluating whether a particular set is a business, it is not relevant whether 
a seller operated the set as a business or whether the acquirer intends to operate the set as a business. 
 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'16 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2019  
 
Assessing whether an acquired process is substantive 
 
B12 In the absence of evidence to the contrary, a particular set of assets and activities in which goodwill is 
present shall be presumed to be a business. However, a business need not have goodwill.  Paragraphs 
B12A–B12D explain how to assess whether an acquired process is substantive if the acquired set of 
activities and assets does not have outputs (paragraph B12B) and if it does have outputs (p aragraph 
B12C). 
 
B12A An example of an acquired set of activities and assets that does not have outputs at the acquisition date 
is an early-stage entity that has not started generating revenue. Moreover, if an acquired set of activities 
and assets was generating revenue at the acquisition date, it is considered to have outputs at that date, 
even if subsequently it will no longer generate revenue from external customers, for example because 
it will be integrated by the acquirer. 
 
B12B If a set of activities and assets does not have outputs at the acquisition date, an acquired process (or 
group of processes) shall be considered substantive only if: 
 
(a) it is critical to the ability to develop or convert an acquired input or inputs into outputs; and  
 
(b) the inputs acquired include both an organised workforce that has the necessary skills, knowledge, 
or experience to perform that process (or group of processes) and other inputs that the organised 
workforce could develop or convert into outputs. Those other inputs could include: 
 
(i) intellectual property that could be used to develop a good or service;  
 
(ii) other economic resources that could be developed to create outputs; or 
 
(iii) rights to obtain access to necessary materials or rights that enable the creation of future 
outputs. 
 
Examples of the inputs mentioned in subparagraphs (b)  (i)–(iii) include technology, in -process 
research and development projects, real estate and mineral interests. 
 
B12C If a set of activities and assets has outputs at the acq uisition date, an acquired process (or group of 
processes) shall be considered substantive if, when applied to an acquired input or inputs, it:  
 
(a) is critical to the ability to continue producing outputs, and the inputs acquired include an 
organised workforce with the necessary skills, knowledge, or experience to perform that process 
(or group of processes); or 
 
(b) significantly contributes to the ability to continue producing outputs and:  
 
(i) is considered unique or scarce; or 
 
(ii) cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay in the ability to continue 
producing outputs. 
 
B12D The following additional discussion supports both paragraphs B12B and B12C:  
 
(a) an acquired contract is an input and not a substantive process. Nevertheless, an acquired contract, 
for example, a contract for outsourced property management or outsourced asset management, 
may give access to an organised workforce. An entity shall assess w hether an organised 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'16    7A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 16.05.2019  
 
 
workforce accessed through such a contract performs a substantive process that the entity 
controls, and thus has acquired. Factors to be considered in making that assessment include the 
duration of the contract and its renewal terms. 
 
(b) difficulties in replacing an acquired organised workforce may indicate that the acquired 
organised workforce performs a process that is critical to the ability to create outputs.  
 
(c) a process (or group of processes) is not critical if, for example, it is ancillary or minor within the 
context of all the processes required to create outputs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 
 