

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
SRI LANKA CULTURAL FOUNDATION FOR THE
BUILDING OF CULTURE AND MORALS
 (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 248]
————————
Presented by Hon. Dilip Wedaarachchi, M. P. for Hambantota District
 on 06th June, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on May 27, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building of
Culture and Morals
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2—PL 007327—850 (06/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
2—PL 007229—  75 (05/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA CULTURAL FOUNDATION
FOR THE BUILDING OF CULTURE AND MORALS
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as “ Sri Lanka
Cultural Foundation for the building of Culture and Morals”
has been established for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed
to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Sri Lanka Cultural
Foundation for the Building of Culture and Morals
(Incorporation) Act, No.      of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of
this Act, such and so many persons as now presently are
members of the 
 “Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the
Building of Culture and Morals” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted  as members
of the Corporatio hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“
Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building of Culture
and Morals” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts with full power and authority to have and  use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Sri Lanka
Cultural
Foundation
for the
Building of
Culture and
Morals
.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to resolve and encourage member unions for the
promulgation of relief services functions, and to
prevent the poverty stricken situations from which
men suffer;
(b) to form and foster a union for cultural services in
every country and to provide for incentives and
promotion and to establish the policies of the main
organization within this union;
(c) to create and assist the projects for pre-disaster
preparation, at the national, regional and
international level;
(d) to establish and utilize the required resources for
social services, cultural restoration activities and
personality development;
(e) to treat all nationals with equality, respecting their
cultures, protecting all wayward artists and
providing relief work to them, as much as possible;
(f) to organize with close cooperation of the national
unions and member unions in accordance with the
common aims of the Corporation as well as
coordinating and operating;
(g) to provide an efficient organizational framework
and information distribution infrastructure facilities
at the national and regional level;
(h) to present certificates of skills esteemed certificates
of incentives, esteemed incentives, honorary consol
awards, training artists and conducting programmes,
creating the required background for them and its
continuous maintenance;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(i) to conduct cultural programmes with national and
regional organizations and to form and conduct a
web site;
(j) to obtain the cooperation of philanthropists and to
develop relationships with other organizations and
solicit their help and assistance;
(k) to issue of an identity card to those members of the
Foundation for social and cultural services
enriching them to conduct matters as privileged
citizens;
(l) to develop friendship, inter action and coordination
among national members of organizations in
keeping with the common aims of the Corporation;
(m) to inculcate the importance of mankind to the varied
human groups, to re-enliven and proclaim the
culture of our past glory, and thereby contribute to
the growth of a humble and righteous society;
(n) to legislate, promote and popularize people friendly
laws when ever required; and
(o) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary,
conducive or incidental to the attainment of the
objects of the Corporation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Superior
Committee consisting of the Chairman / Director General,
Administrative Secretary, Senior Vice Chairman, Vice
Chairman, Regional Organizer and Deputy Director General
to be elected in accordance with such rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
sub-section (1) of this section Mr. Nimal Chandana
Weeratunga shall be the Director General of the Corporation
and shall be the Director General for life, and he shall
nominate a successor who shall also hold office for life.
(3) The successor so nominated shall consist of the
members of the Superior Commettee of the Foundation
holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the powers—
(a) to borrow and raise money for the purpose of the
Corporation;
(b) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory Notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts;
(c) to invest any funds which are not immediately
required for the purposes of the Corporation in such
manner as the Superior Committee may think fit;
(d) to solicit and receive subscription, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds;
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons;
(f) to undertake, accept, exeute, perform and administer
any lawful trusts and conditions affection any
movable or immovable property;
(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or  terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determind by the Corporation;
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(h) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for
purposes of the Corporation; and
(i) to do all other things necessary or expedient for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules not inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law for all or any of the following matters—
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by each
class of members, their admission, withdrawal or
expulsion or resignation;
(b) election of the Superior  Committee, the resignation
from, vacation of, or removal from office of the
office bearers and powers, duties and conduct of
the Superior Committee;
(c) appointment, dismissal, powers, dities, functions
and conduct of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be observed or the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Superior  Committee,
the Corporation or any sub-Committee thereof,
filling of vacancies, notices and agendas of such
meetings, the quorm therefore and the conduct of
business thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualification for
membership in the Superior  Committee of the
Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the preceding
date of commencement of this Act shall, in so far as they are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation and
may be amended, altered, added to, or rescinded at a like
meeting and in like manner as rules made under this
section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to and all subscriptions and fees payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in
law to acquire and hold any property movable or immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under Section 6,
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act, with full power to mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same. All property
belonging to the Foundation on the date of commencement
of this Act shall be vested in the Coporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way
of gift, bequest, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
or grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Superior Committee determine.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund any expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance
and discharge of powers, duties and functions under this
Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by the Superior Committee.
 (4) In this section “Qualified Auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such  institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such
institutes.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever, except in the presence of  the President and the
Secretary of the Corporation who shall  sign their names on
the instrument in token of their presence and such  signing
shall be independent of the signing  of any person as a
witness.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit of
accounts of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
5
10
15
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to Association or Associations having
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or profit among the members. Such Association
or Associations shall be determined by the members of the
Corpoation at or immediately before the time of  dissolution
of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic of Sri Lanka or of any body
politic or  corporate or any other person except such as are
mentioned in the Act and those claiming by, from, or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Lanka Cultural Foundation for the Building
of Culture and Morals (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .