

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
w;s úfYI
wxl 1879$19 - 2014 iema;eïn¾ ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'09'12
No.1879/19  - FRIDAY   SEPTEMBER  12, 2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
 SABARAGAMUW A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Co-operative Employee's Pension Statute No. 01 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
(Ministry of Law and Order, Finance and Planning, Local Government, Health and Indigenous Medicine, Women Affairs, Co-
operatives, Trade and Food, Transport and Estate Welfare, Environment, News, Housing and Construction)
Honourable Chairman of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council certified on 22.07.2014
Honourable Governor of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council assented on 06.08.2014
Printed by order of the Sabragamuwa Provincial Council
 SABARAGAMUWA    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA
Co-operative Employee's Commission Statute No. 01 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council
The Co-operative Employee's Commisson Statute No. 01 of 2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council which is
passed  by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council on 24.06.2014 and assented to by the Honourable Governor of the
Sabargamuwa Province on 06.08.2014 is hereby published for the information of the public.
L
ALITH DODAMKOTUWA,
Council Secretary,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
At the Sabragamuwa Provincial Council,
10th  September 2014.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SABARAGAMUW A  PROVINCE  CO-OPERATIVE   EMPLOYEE'S    COMMISSION  STATUTE
No. 01 OF  2014    OF   THE   SABARAGAMUWA    PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL
COUNCIL
A Statute to establish  a commission to be known as Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Employee's
Commission in terms of the Article 154(g)(1) of the 13th amendment to the constitution of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and to make provisions in respect of  Employees of Co-operative
Societies in the Sabaragamuwa Province and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.
4—PG 2163

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
2A
The provisions of this statute are inconsistent with Co-operative Employee's Commission Act,
No. 12 of 1972 amended by Co-operative Employee's Commission (amended) Act, No. 51 of 1992.
Be it enacted by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka  as follows :
01. This statute may be cited as the Co-operative Employee's Commission Statute No. 01 of
2014 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
02. This statute shall come into force from the date it receives the assent by the Governor of the
Sabaragamuwa Province.
Part - 1
ESTABLISHMENT,   POWERS   AND   FUNCTIONS   OF   SABARAGAMUWA    PROVINCE
CO-OPERA TIVE    EMPLOYEE'S    COMMISSION
03. For the purpose of this statute, a commission to be called and known as Sabaragamuwa
Province Co-operative Employee's Commission shall be established.
04. The Commission shall be a body corporate with a common seal and may sue and be sued in
its corporate capacity and have powers to do every other thing for the purpose of this
statute.
05. I. The Commission shall consist of three members appointed by the minister.
(2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a member of the commission, if he
is ;
(a) an employee or past employee of a co-operative society ; or
(b) a person who is a member of any body of persons which, in the opinion of the
minister, is a trade union which has its objects, the regulation of salaries, wages
or conditions of service of any category of persons employed by co-operative
societies ; or
(c) a person who is an officer of a co-operative society according to the law relating
to co-operative societies ; or
(d) a person of unsound mind or bankrupted or convicted by any court under the
penal code or bribery act ; or
(e) a person who is for the time being a member of parliament or member of provincial
council or member of any local government authority.
06. Each member of the commission shall hold office for a period of 03 years from the date of  his
appointment unless he is removed earlier by the minister or disqualified by Section 5(2) of
this statute or resign from his post
Short title
Establishment of
Sabaragamuwa
Province Co-
operative
Employee's
Commission
Should be a body
corporate
Constitution of the
Commission
Term of office of
members
Date of operation

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
Any person who is appointed to fill any vacancy caused by death, resignation or removal
from or vacation of office, of any such member shall hold office during the period equal to
the unexpired portion of the term of office of the other members unless otherwise declared.
07. (1) The minister shall appoint one of the members of the commission to be its chairman.
the Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the commission at which he is present. In
the absence of the chairman from any meeting of the commission any member chosen
by those present may preside thereat.
(2) Two members shall constitute the quorum for a meeting of the commission
(3) If any meeting, at which the 02 members of the commission are present and such
members are divided  in opinion as to the decision to be taken or any question, such
question shall be referred to a meeting at which the 03 members of the commission.
(4) If at any meeting, at which the three members of the commission are present, the
members of that commission are divided in opinion as to the decision to be given on
any question, such question shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority
of the members present, but if the members are equally divided then, the chairman
shall have a casting vote
(5) Any act or proceeding of the commission shall not be invalid or deem to be invalid by
reason only of the existence of a vacancy among its members or any defect in the
appointment of any of its members.
(6) The commission may regulate its own procedure for any matter not provided in this
statute or any regulation made there under.
8. The chairman and members of the commission should be paid such remuneration and such
allowances as may be determined by the minister in consultation with the provincial minister
who is in charge of finance in the province.
09. (1) There should be a secretary of the commission who shall be a member of the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service.
(2) The other members of the staff of the commission shall be appointed from the provincial
Public Service and they should be subjected to the administrative and disciplinary
orders of the Provincial Public Service.
10. (1) The chairman and the members of the commission shall, on first appointment, take an
oath or make an affirmation in the form set out in the Schedule I to this statute.
(2) The secretary to the commission and such of the other officers of the commission as
may be required to do so by the chairman thereof, shall, on first appointment, take an
oath or make an affirmation in the form set out in the 2nd schedule to this statute.
11. (1) The commission shall have the following powers
(a) to determine all matters relating to methods of recruitment to, and conditions of
employments of employees of co-operative societies, and the principles to be
followed by such societies in making appointments and in making provisions.
all that recruitments and appointments in contravention to the aforesaid are
illegal and salary, wages and allowances paid to such employees should be
surcharged to the board of directors of the relevant society.
Chairman and
conduct of business
of the commission
Remuneration of
members
Secretary and other
officers
Taking of oaths by
members and other
officers
Powers of the
commission

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
4A
(b) to conduct examinations for recruitment as employees of co-operative  societies
or to appoint boards of examiners for the purpose of conducting such
examinations and to charge fees from candidates
(c) to determine the qualifications necessary for appointment to any such post to
fix the scales of salaries, from time to time, in consultation with the commission
and to establish such consultative machinery as the commission may deem
necessary to assist it in determining the remuneration and conditions of service
of co-operative employees
(d) to require co-operative societies to pay salaries in accordance with the salary
scales fixed by the commission.
(e) to determine the procedure or procedures to be followed by any co-operative
society in exercising its rights of disciplinary action against its employees, to
call upon any co-operative society to complete disciplinary inquiries against it
employees within a time stipulated by the commission.
(f) to hear appeals that arises due to disciplinary orders made by co-operative
societies.
(g) to call upon any co-operative society to keep the prescribed records relating to
employees of that society.
(h) to call upon any co-operative society to furnish before a specified date such
files, other documents or information as the commission may required in respect
of any employee of that society.
(i) to nominate a panel or panels of officers to make such inquiries as are necessary
on appeal that are referred by the commission to such panel or panels and to
report there on to the commission.
(j) to require any co-operative society to carry out such instruction, on or before
a stipulated date relating to alter, mitigate, cancel a decision of a society or to
take another decision on behalf of it or to hold a fresh inquiry again or to
reinstatement, as may be given by the commission in regard to any employee of
such society  where the conduct of the employee has been the subject of an
inquiry and the employee had appealed to the commission against the decision
of the society.
(k) to determine the general principles in accordance with which gratuity or other
benefits may be granted to employees on the termination of their services on a
disciplinary action or any other reason.
(i) to direct an appellant to do a cash deposits as required by the regulations made
by the minister, and decide to retain or repay it at the end of the appeal inquiry.
(2) In the exercise of the powers vested in the commission, except the power vested by
article 7(f)(j)(l) of sub section (1), the commission may modify, vary or revise or set
aside any decision of determination made by the commission.
12. The expenses of the commission shall be paid out of the moneys provided by the provincial
council annually.
Financial provisions

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
Part   II
CO-OPERA TIVE    SOCIETIES   AND    THEIR    EMPLOYEES
13.  A co-operative society which for the time being pays out of its funds the salary and other
emoluments of any employee shall be deemed to be the employer of such employee.
14. Every co-oprative society should pay salary and emoluments of its employees out of its
fund.
15. Any co-operative society and any employee of such society, shall be subject to such
directions  as may be given by the commission under this statute, and all decisions of the
commission in the discharge and exercise of its functions and powers under this statute,
subject to the provisions of Section 11(2), shall be final and binding on all such co-operative
societies and on the employees of such societies.
16. All directions given by the commission in regard to any employee of any co-operative
society, subject to the provisions of Section 11(2), shall be final and binding upon such
employee as if such directions are given by such society.
17 (1) All the directions given by the co-operative employee's commission established
under the co-operative employee's commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 on or before the
date of establishment of the commission under this statute and the directions given
by the co-operative employee's commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 read with Provincial
Council (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989, including the directions and
orders given in respect of Co-operative societas and their employees relating to
(a) the determined scale of salaries, service conditions including all the grading.
(b) all the orders issued for the functions of the performance under that act.
(c) appeals all types received commenced to hear and disposed of and awaiting
the issue of orders.
(d) all legal proceedings already commenced.
(e) all regulations made and circular issued
(f) all appointments made and all promotions given
Shall be valid and effective as if given by this statute.
(2) Regulations (Co-operative employee's Establishment Code) made under the Co-
operative employee's commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 and published in the extra
ordinary Gazette No. 1712/36 of 02.07.2011 are valid and effective until the Co-operative
minister made the regulations.
18. No person shall be appointed to any post in a co-operative society unless that person is a
resident within the Sabaragamuwa Province. Provided, however, that when in the opinion
of the commission no suitable candidate is available in the province for any post in any
co-operative society in the Sabaragamuwa Province, the commission may permit subjects
to the regulations made by the minister, that society to fill that post by appointing a suitable
candidate who does not have permanent residency in the Sabaragamuwa Province.
Co-operative
society to be an
employer
Salary of the
co-operative society
employees
Co-operative
societies and their
employees to be
subject to directions
of the commission
Directions of the
commission to be
binding upon
employees of
co-operative
societies
Changes due to
Sabaragamuwa
Provincial
Co-operative
Employees Statute
Residential
qualifications
5—PG 2163

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
6A
19. Any person appointed to a post in a co-operative society shall be assigned the salary scale
pertaining to that post in accordance with the grading of such society and the grade or
class of employee's as determined under Section 27(1)
20. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this statute, the commission may, with the approval
of the minister and of the “appointing authority” and with the consent of the relevant
officer may appoint to any office in the co-operative society, for such period and on such
terms and conditions as the commission may approve. For the purposes of this section,
“appointing authority” means the “appointing authority” of the provincial public service.
21. (1) A co-operative society shall not require any employee to furnish by way of security
an amount in excess of such sum as the commission may prescribe.
(2) Any cash security furnished by any employee of a co-operative society shall be
invested in a bank in the name of the society and any interest accruing thereon shall
be paid to that employee.
22. (1) Every co-operative society which is an employer and every employee of such society
shall contribute periodically to the Employee's Province Fund and Employee's Trust
Fund, such amounts as may be required by law.
(2) Every co-operative employee, whose service is terminated by retiring, expelling from
the service or vacating the post and if he/she has uninterrupted 5 year service, he/she
should be paid the gratuity.
23. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that all  employee's are servants of,
employed by and owe their loyalty to the society by which they are employed.
24. (1) No employee of a co-operative society shall be dismissed or otherwise punished by
any co-operative society except in accordance with the provisions of this statute or
any regulations made there under.
(2)  Nothing in the preceding provisions of this Section shall be deemed to render it
unlawful for any co-operative society to continue and complete in accordance with
the provisions that were in force prior to the date of the establishment of the commission
any disciplinary proceedings, already pending against any of its employees in respect
of any misconduct or breach of discipline or their cause of complaint which may have
occurred or arisen before such date.
(3) If any employee has appealed or taken a legal action alleging against punishing him
or her, without a formal disciplinary action and after hearing it, it is decided to pay him
compensation, fine or any other sum from the society, director board including the
chairman of the committee responsible should reimburse it to the society personally
and collectively.
Salary scales of
employees to be
determined
according to grading
of a co-operative
society and grade
and class of
employees
Secondment from
Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Public
Service
Security furnished
by the employees
Employee's
Provident Fund and
Employee's Trust
Fund
Gratuity of the
employees
Co-operative
employee's to be
employees of the
society and not of
the commission
Dismissal and
punishment of
employees of
co-operative
societies

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
 25. (1) The Minister may make regulations
(a) in respect of the  grading of employees in co-operative societies, prescribe of
grade and class, recruitment, appointment, evaluation of efficiency, training,
promotion, transfer, resignation and termination of services of employees of
co-operative societies and their grievances
(b) Prescribing such terms and conditions of employment of such employees and
providing for salary scales, payment of allowances and gratuities, employees'
welfare advances, grants, leaves disciplinary procedure and appeals.
(c) In respect of such other matters relating to the terms of employment or the
conditions of service of such employees as are deemed necessary.
(2) Every regulation made in respect of any matter referred to in sub Section (1) above,
shall be binding on all co-operative societies and their employees within authoritative
area of Sabaragamuwa Province.
26. Every co-operative society within the province shall
(a) keep and maintain in respect of every one of its employees, the prescribes registers
or records and enter there all such particulars relating to each such employee as may
be prescribed.
(b) furnish to the commission such returns or reports relating to its employees as may be
prescribed or such information as the commission may from time to time requires ;
and
(c) permit any member, officer or employee who is authorized in that behalf to enter any
of its offices and to inspect and take copies of any books, account, records  or to
inspect any good, wholesale store or any other place or asset which will be helpful to
come to a final decision of an appeal or a disciplinary inquiry.
Part   III
POWERS   OF   THE   CO-OPERATIVE    COMMISSIONER
27. (1) The provincial commissioner shall have the power to grade each co-operative society
for the purpose of fixing scales of salaries to posts in co-operative societies and to
determine the grades or classes of employees and the number employs in each such
grade or class of any co-operative society and vary it as he may deem necessary from
time to time.
(2) No co-operative society shall employ any person in contravention of the determination
made by the provincial commissioner under sub-Section (1)
28. The commission shall with the concurrence of the provincial commissioner determine the
qualification necessary for appointment to any post in co-operative societies, fix the scales
of salary to be attached to any such post or posts in any class or grade and revise such
scales of salary from time to time
Regulations relating
to employees
Duties of
Co-operative
societies in respect
of its employees
Provincial
commissioner to
grade society and
determine its staff
The commission to
secure the
concurrence of the
provincial
commissioner
regarding
qualifications, salary
scales etc.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
8A
Part IV
MISCELLANEOUS    PROVISIONS
29. If in giving effect to the provisions of this stature any doubt or difficulty arises in respect of
any matter or question for which no provision or no effective provision is made by this
statute, the minister may, by order remove or determine such doubt or difficulty. Every such
order shall be published in the Gazette, and upon such publication shall have the force of
law and be as valid and effectual as if it were herein enacted.
30 (1) Unless otherwise expressly provided, the commission may made all such regulations
as may seem to the commission to be necessary for carrying out the provisions of this
statute or giving effect to the principles, there of, including regulations for all matters
for or in respect of which regulations are authorized or required to be made under this
statute, and all matters stated or required by this statute to be prescribed.
(2) No such regulations shall have effect until it has been approved by the minister and
notification of such approval has been published in the Gazette.
(3) Upon the publication in the gazette of any notification under sub-Section (2), the
regulations to which the notification relates shall be as valid and effectual as though
it were herein enacted.
31. No action, prosecution or other proceeding whether civil or criminal shall be instituted or
maintained against any individual member of the commission in respect of any decision
taken or act done or omitted to be done by him in his capacity as such member or by the
commission in its corporate capacity
32. Notwithstanding the province of this statue, a co-operative society may in the interests of
its efficient operation with the prior approval of the commission.
(a) engage the services of an expert or any specialist for any defined term on a contractual
basis.
(b) engage casual or daily paid or hourly paid employees, or employees paid on a piece
rate basis.
(c) engage employees on acting basis subject to maximum 06 months duration on special
occasions.
Provided, however that no permanency of tenure of the office shall be granted to such
employees without the concurrence of the commission.
33. (1) Any co-operative society or any officer or employee thereof ;
(a) which or who contravenes the provisions of this statute ; or
(b) which or who willfully neglects or refuse or fails to do any act required by the
commission to be done, or to furnish any information required for the purpose
of this statute by the commission or other duly authorized person ; or
(c) any co-operative society, committee or any employee, which or who willfully
makes a false return or furnished false information, shall be guilty of an offence
under this statute.
Removal of
difficulties
Minister to make
regulations
Immunity of
individual members
of the commissions
Engagement of
contracutal, casual
or daily paid
employees
Offences

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
(2) Every society or person which or who commits any offence referred to in sub Section
(1) shall, on conviction after summary trial before a magistrate either be liable to a fine
not exceeding Rs. 5000/- or be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term not exceeding 6 months or both.
(3) On the conviction of any co-operative society for failure to carry out such instructions
given by the commission as requires the reinstatement of any employee, Such
co-operative society shall be liable ;
(i) to pay in addition to any punishment that may be imposed on such co-operative
society under sub Section (2) above, a fine of Rs. 250/- for each day on which
the failure is continued after conviction thereof ; and
(ii) to pay such employee the remuneration which would have been payable to him
if he had been  in such service on each such day and on each day of the period
commencing on the date on which he should have been reinstated in service
according to the instructions of the commission and ending on the date of the
conviction of such co-operative society, computed at the rate of salary or
wages to which he would have entitled of his service has not been terminated.
(iii) to pay such employ a sum decided by the commission in addition to the penalty
mentioned in above (ii), on the conviction of any co-operative society for
failure to carry out such instructions given by the commission to pay a salary
or other way allowance or compensation.
Any sum which a co-operative society liable to pay under paragraph (ii) and (iii) of
this sub section may be received on the order of the court by which it was convicted
as if it were fine imposed on it by that court and the amount so recovered shall be paid
to the employee
34. Every person who, otherwise than in the course of his duty, directly or indirectly, by himself
or by any other person, in any manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence any
decision of the commission or any member thereof shall be guilty of an offence, and shall,
on conviction after a summary trail before a magistrate, be liable to  a fine not exceeding
Rs. 5000/- or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 06 months or to both such fine and
such imprisonment.
35. No member of the commission, nor the secretary nor any member of the staff of the
commission nor any other person shall publish or disclose to any person, otherwise that in
the exercise of his official functions, the content of any document, communication or
information whatsoever which has come to his notice in the course of his duties.
36. No person shall in any legal proceedings be permitted or compelled to produce or disclose
any communication, written or oral, which has taken place between the commission or any
member or officer thereof in the exercise of, or in communication with the exercise of any of
the functions of the commission, unless the chairman shall consent in writing for such
production or disclosure.
37 (1) If an application has been made by an employee under this statute in respect of any
matter to any labour tribunal established under that act, the commission shall not
entertain any appeal made to it by such employee in respect of the same matter or
substantially in respect of the same matter.
Influence with the
commission
Unauthorized
disclosure of
information
prohibited
Communications of
the commission to
be privileged
Application of
Industrial Dispute
Act to the
co-operative
societies and the
employees

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
10A
(2) If an application has been made by an employee under this statute to the commission,
the Labour Tribunal established under the Industrial Dispute Act, shall not entertain
any appeal made to it by such employee in respect of the same matter or substantially
in respect of the same matter.
38. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this statute,
Sinhala text shall prevail
39. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires
“Minister” means the provincial minister to whom the subject of co-operatives in the
Sabaragamuwa Province have been assigned.
“Committee”  means a governing board which the management of a registered co-operative
society has been assigned and it includes the board of directors of a registered
co-operative society and individuals appointed by the commissioner.
“Commissioner” means the commissioner of Co-operative development of Sabaragamuwa
Province and Registrar of Co-operative Societies of the Sabaragamuwa Province.
“Officer” means committee members, secretary and executive officers of a Co-operative
society when mention regarding any Co-operative society.
“Co-operative society” means a registered society under the law relates to the
Co-operative societies.
“employee” means a Co-operative employee to the purpose of this statute.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency
interpretation
SCHEDULE - 01
OATH  OF   AFFIRMA TION  OF   CHAIRMAN/MEMBERS   OF   SABARAGAMUWA   PROVINCE   CO-OPERATIVE
EMPLOYEE'S   COMMISSION   UNDER   SECTION 10(1)
I, ......................................................................................................................having been appointed Chairman/Member of
Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Employee's Commission do swear/solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will,, without
fear or favour, affection of ill-will discharge the function of the office of Chairman/Member of Sabaragamuwa Province
Co-operative Employee's commission and that I will not directly or indirectly reveal any matter relating to such functions to
any person otherwise than in the course of duty.
.................................................
Signature of affirmant/deponent
On this ....................day of ........................20................
Sworn/affirmed before me this ........................day of ...........................
....................................................
Judge of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial High Court.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'09'12
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.09.2014
SCHEDULE - 02
OATH  OF   AFFIRMATION   OF    SECRETARY/OFFICER   OF   SABARAGAMUWA   PROVINCE   CO-OPERATIVE
EMPLOYEE'S   COMMISSION   UNDER  SECTION 10(2)
I, ............................................................................................................................................having been called upon to exercise
the functions of the Secretary/any officer of Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Employee's Commission do swear/
solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will not directly or indirectly reveal to any person otherwise than in the course of duty the
contents or any part of contents of any document, communication or information whatsoever which may come to my
knowledge in the course of duties as the Secretary of/an officer of Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Employee's
Commission
......................................................................
Signature of affirmant/deponent
On this ...........................day of 20...........................
Sworn/affirmed before me this day of ..........................
...........................................................................
Chairman of the Sabaragamuwa Province Co-operative Employee's Commission
09 - 1139
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.