

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2721
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2717
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"993 – 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'11'11
No. 1,993 –  fRiday ,  NoVEmbER  11, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd december, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th  November, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2709
Note.—  (i) Sathya Sri Gnanapathi bhakthi Jana Sewa foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part 
II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 22, 2016.
 (ii) mahipala Herath Janasahana foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2016.
 (iii) Saravanapavan foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2710
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General
 :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5
 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5
 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5
 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2711
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) 
 When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2712
Posts – Vacant
mINISTRy Of SOCIAL EmPOWERmENT 
AND WELfARE
National Institute of Social Development
01. Post.- Professor - No. of Post 01
01. Age limit.- Shall be below 55 years.
02. Qualifications : 
 b achelor’s degree in Social Work from a university 
recognized by the University Grants commission 
with a 1st class or 2nd Upper divison ; 
or
 a  masters degree not less than one year duration 
from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission/or a recognized higher educational 
institute of Social Work, Social Sciences, Social 
Welfare, Social Policy, counseling, community 
Development or a related field ;
and
 a  Ph d from a university or a recognized higher 
educational institute by the University Grant 
commission in Social Work or Social Science 
(Priority will be given to applicants with a Ph d in 
social work) ;
and
 Experience not less than 10 years in University level 
teaching 
and research with sufficient experience in 
Education management after obtaining the Phd.
or
 10 years of experience in Senior managerial level at 
the National institute of Social development with 
a Ph d in Social Work or Social Sciences from a 
university or Higher Educational institute recognized 
by the University Grants commission. 
and
 a  very good working knowledge in English. 
03. Salary Scale.- H m 2-3-2016 - Rs. 98,215 - 
12x2,700 - Rs. 130,615. monthly receivable salary scale in 
2020 (2016.04.25 management Services circular 02/2016 
as Schedule i). Hm 2-3-2006- Rs. 47,245 -12x1,310 -              
Rs. 62,965 monthly salary will be paid as per Schedule ii 
of the same circular at present. 
02. Post : Additional Director General (Academic) -  
No. of Post 01.
01. Age limit.- Shall be not less than 25 years of age and 
not more than 55 years of age (However, maximum age 
limit shall not be applicable to the candidates serving in 
government, Provincial Public Service or statutory boards 
of the government). 
02. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) basic degree in Sociology , from a university 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission, with a Post Graduate degree in 
Social Work ;
  and
03. experiences.- minimum experience of 15 years at 
Senior managerial level. in Public Service or Government 
institution with an excellent service record. minimum of 
03 years out of this service shall be after obtaining Post 
Graduate degree in Social Work. 
04. Professional Qualifications.- management of 
Programmes in the field of Social Service/Social Welfare/
Social 
development and being a member of a professional 
body on Social Work.
for Internal Candidates : 
Qualifications.- minimum experience of 03 years at 
Senior managerial level at National institute of 
Social development along with an excellent service 
record. 
05. Marking Scheme for interview : 
 Experience in relevant administration marks 30
 a dditional experience in profession marks 30
 o ther skills marks 15
 Performance at the interview marks 25
 t otal marks 100
06. Salary Scale.- Hm 2-1-2016 – 93,020 - 12 x2,700 
= Rs. 125,420 monthly receivable salary scale in 2020 
(2016.04.25 
management Services circular 02/2016 
as Schedule i) Hm 2-1-2006- Rs. 47,245 - 12x 1,310 -            
Rs. 62,965 monthly salary will be paid as per Schedule ii 
of the same circular at present. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2713
03. Post : Senior Lecturer - No. of Post 04
01. Age limit.- Shall be not less than 22 years of age and 
not more than 45 years of age (However, maximum age 
limit shall not be applicable to the candidates serving in 
government, Provincial Public Service or statutory boards 
of the government). 
02. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Possession of a bachelor’s degree in Social 
Science from a university recognized by the 
University Grants commission with a Phd on 
Social Work. 
 (b) experience.- Not less than 10 years experience 
in social work and teaching at a government 
higher education institution or an institution 
recognize by the government. 
for internal candidates : 
 (a) minimum experience of 05 years in a post of 
Lecturer of Grade i at the National institute of 
Social development. 
  or
 (b) Possession of a Ph d in Social Work and 
experience of minimum of 03 years in a post 
of Lecturer of Grade 
i at the National institute 
of Social development. 
03. Marking scheme for interivew : 
Experience in relevant field Marks 30
additional experience in profession marks 30
other skills marks 15
Performance at the interview marks 25
total marks 100
04. Salary Scale.- aR-2-2016 - Rs. 71,585 -10x1,910 
- Rs. 90,685 monthly receivab le Salary Scale in 2020 
(2016.04.25 management Services circular 02/2016 as 
Schedule i).
aR-2-2006a - Rs. 34,550 -10x925 - Rs. 43,800 monthly 
salary will be paid as per Schedule ii of the same circular 
at present. 
04. Post : Senior Training Officer II - No. of Post 03
01. Age limit.- Shall be not less than 22 years of age and 
not more than 45 years of age (However, maximum age 
limit shall not be applicable to the candidates serving in 
government, provincial public service or statutory boards 
of the government).
02. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) a bachelor’s degree in Social Sciences with 
a doctoral degree (Phd) in Social Sciences 
from a University recognized by the University 
Grant 
commission ; 
  and
  Experience of not less than 10 years in the 
Sector 
of Social Work training in a government 
or a recognized institution by the government ; 
  or
 (b) b achelor’s degree in Social Sciences with a 
post graduate degree in Social Sciences from a 
University recognized 
by the University Grant 
commission ; 
  and
03. experience.- Experience of not less than 15 years 
in the Sector of Social Work training in a government 
institute or an institution recognized by the government. 
For Internal Candidates .- minimum experience of 
05 years in a post of Training Officer of Grade I at the 
National 
institute of Social development ; or 
Possession of a Ph d on Social Science and minimum 
experience of 03 years in a post of Training Officer of 
Grade 
i at the National institute of Social development. 
04. Marking scheme for interivew : 
Experience in relevant field Marks 30
additional experience in profession marks 30
other skills marks 15
Performance at the interview marks 25
total marks 100
05. Salary Scale.- aR-2-2016 - Rs. 71,585 -10x1,910 
- Rs. 90,685 monthly receiva ble salary scale in 2020 
(2016.04.25 management Services circular 02/2016 as 
Schedule i).
aR-2-2006a - Rs. 34,550 -10x925 - Rs. 43,800 monthly 
salary will be paid as per Schedule ii of the same circular 
at present. 
05. Post : Senior Research Officer II - No. of Post 03.
01. Age limit.- Shall be not less than 22 years of age and 
not more than 45 years of age (However, maximum age 
limit shall not be applicable to the candidates serving in 
government, provincial public service or statutory boards 
of the government).

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2714
02. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) a bachelor's degree in Social Sciences with a 
doctoral degree (Phd) in Social Sciences from 
a University recognized by the University Grant 
commission ; 
 and
  Experience of not less than 10 years in the 
Sector of Social Work training in a government 
or a recognized institution by the government ; 
 or
 (b) bachelor's degree in Social Sciences with a 
post graduate degree in Social Sciences from a 
University recognized by the University Grant 
commission ; 
 and
03. experience.-  Experience of not less than 15 years 
in the Sector of Social Work training in a government 
institute or an institution recognized by the government. 
For Internal Candidates :
 (a) minimum experience of 05 years in a post of 
Research Officer of Grade I at the National 
institute of Social development ; 
 or 
 (b) Possession of a Ph d on Social Science and 
minimum experience of 03 years in a post of 
Research Officer of Grade I at the National 
institute of Social development. 
04. Marking scheme for interivew : 
 Experience in relevant field Marks 30
 a dditional experience in profession marks 30
 o ther skills marks 15
 Performance at the interview marks 25
 t otal marks 100
05. Salary Scale.– aR-2-2016 - Rs. 71,585 -10x1,910 
= Rs. 90,685 monthly receivable salary scale. (2016.04.25 
management Services circular 02/2016 as Schedule i) 
Schedule ii of the circular, as salaries will be paid. aR-2-
2006a - Rs. 34,550 -10x925 - Rs. 43,800 monthly.
06. Post : Research Officer II - No. of Post 01. 
01. Age Limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age 
and not more than 45 years of age (However, maximum 
age limit shall not be applicable to the candidates serving 
in government, statuary boards or at this institution).
02. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Possession of a degree with a thesis and a 
pass of first or second class (Upper Division) 
on Social Sciences from a university/higher 
educational institution recognized by the 
Unversity Grants 
commission ; 
  or
 (b) Possession of a first degree on Social Science 
with a Post Graduate degree from a University/
Higher Educational institution recognized by 
the University Grants commission ; 
  or
 (c) Experience of 03 years as a Research assistant at 
a government or statutory institution or private 
institution with a degree from a University/
Higher Educatio nal institution recognized by 
the University Grants commission.
03. Marking scheme for interivew : 
Experience in relevant field Marks 30
additional experience in profession marks 30
other skills marks 15
Performance at the interview marks 25
total marks 100
04. Salary Scale.- aR-1-2016 - Rs. 51,285 -5x1,135- 5x 
1,335 - 15-1,590 - Rs. 87,485 monthly receivable salary 
scale in 2020 (2016.04.25 
management Services circular 
02/2016 as Schedule i) 
aR-1-2006a - Rs. 24,725 -5x550 - 5x645 - 15x 770 - 
Rs. 42,250 monthly salary will be paid as per schedule ii 
of the same circular at present. 
07. Post : English Instructor III - No. of Post 01. 
01. Age Limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years and not 
more than 45 years (this age limit shall not be effective on 
those who are employed in government, Provincial, Public 
Serivce or statutory boards).
02. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) degree with English as a subject obtained by a 
university recognize by the University Grants 
commission ; 
  or
 (b) degree on English Language, English 
Literature, English Language teaching 
methods obtained from a university recognized 
by University Grants 
commission ; 
  and

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2715
 (c) c ompletion of a diploma Programme with the 
course duration of not less than one year or 
English teaching obtained from a recognize 
higher education institute ; 
  or
 (d) Not less than 03 years experience of teaching 
English in a government school or any other 
government educational institute.
03. Method of recruitment through for interivew : 
Subject related experience relevant to 
 marks 30
 the post
Relevent Additional Qualification Marks 30
other skills and merits marks 15
Performance at the interview marks 25
total 100 marks
04. Salary Scale.– ma-4-2016 - Rs. 37,970 -10x755 - 
15x930 - 5x1,135 - Rs. 65,145 monthly receivable salary 
scale in 2020 (2016.04.25 management Services circular 
02/2016 as Schedule i) ma4-2006a - Rs. 18,230 -10x365 
- 15x450 - 5x550 - Rs. 31,380 monthly salary will be paid 
as per schedule ii of the same circular at present. 
08. Post : Program Assistant (Center in Charge) III   
No. of vacancies I (for kilinochchi Centre). 
 (1) Age Limit.– candidate should not be less than 
22 years of age and not more than 45 years as 
at closing date of the application. the upper age 
limit would not be applicable to applicants already 
in the services of Government 
department/
Provincial State corporation/Statutory board.
 (2) Educational Qualifications .– Should have 
obtained the bachelors degree from a University, 
recognized by the University Grants commission. 
  and
  a diploma not less than one year duration from a 
Government institute or a Government recognized 
institute of Social Work, Social 
development and 
counseling ;
  and
 (b) Working experience not less than one year 
as a Project Officer (Center in Charge) in 
Government institute or a Government 
recognized institute. 
For Internal Candidates :
 (a) a bachelors degree from a university 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission and a diploma not less than one 
year duration of Social Work, counselling, 
Social development ; 
  and
 (b) 5 years experience in the post of management 
assistant at National institute of Social 
development.  
 (iii) Salary Scale.- ma-3-2016 - Rs. 32,200 -10x445 - 
11x 660 - 10 x 730 - 5 x 750 - Rs. 54,960 monthly 
receivable salary scale. (2016.04.25 management 
Services circular 02/2016 as Schedule i) ma-3-
2006a - Rs. 15,600 -10 x 215 - 4x240 - 15x360 
- 7x320 - Rs. 26,030 monthly salary will be paid 
as per schedule ii of the same circular at present. 
09.  Post : Translator (Sinhala to English) - No. of         
Posts 01. 
01. Age Limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of 
age and not more than 45 years of age ( maximum age 
limit shall not be applicable to the candidates serving in 
government Provincial Public Service or Statutory boards 
of the government ).
02 Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) degree obtained in Sinhala/English medium 
from a university recognized by University 
Grant 
commission and a credit pass for Sinhala/
English Language and Literature at G. c. E. (a/L) 
and Skills in Sinhala/English translation ; 
  and
 (b) 02 years experience as a translator at a 
government institution or institution recognized 
by the government.
03. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment shall be 
made selecting an appropriate one out of the following 
alternatives after calling applications through publishing 
a public notification as determined by the appointing 
authority :
 (i) Recruitment of external candidates by an 
open competitive examination/and structured 
interview.
 (ii) Recruitment of internal candidates by a limited 
competitive/and structured interview.  

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2716
04. method of recruitment through interview : 
    Marks
Subject related experience relevant 30 marks
 to the post
Relevant Additional Qualification 30 Marks
other skills and merits 15 marks
Performance at the interview 25 marks
   100 marks
05. Salary Scale .- ma4-2016 - Rs. 37,970 -10x755 - 
15x930 - 5x1,135 - Rs. 65,145 monthly receivable salary 
scale in 2020 (2016.04.25 management Services circular 
02/2016 as Schedule i) ma-4-2006a - Rs. 18,230 -10x365 
- 15x450 - 5x550 - Rs. 31,380 monthly salary will be paid 
as per schedule ii of the same circular at present. 
10. Post : Audio Visual Technician III - No. of Posts 01. 
01. Age limit.- Shall be not less than 22 years of age and 
not more than 45 years of age ( maximum age limit shall 
not be applicable to the candidates serving in this institute).
02 Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Shall have passed G. c. E. ( ordinary Level) 
with six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
Sinhala, mathematics and two other subjects in 
one sitting ; 
  and
 (b) Shall have passed G. c. E. (advanced Level) 
in Science stream with all subjects (Except 
General test) and have obtained the level 
required to follow a tertiary education course.  
 
03. Salary Scale.- ma-2-2-2016 - Rs. 30,310 -10x300- 
7x 350 - 4x600 - 20x710 - Rs. 52,360 monthly receivable 
salary scale in 2020 ( management Services circular 
02/2016 as Schedule i) ma-2-2-2006a - Rs. 14,610 
-10x145 - 7x170 - 4x 290 - 20x345 - Rs. 25,310 monthly 
salary will 
be paid as per Schedule ii of the same circular 
at present. 
11. Post : hostel keeper III - No. of Post 01. 
01. Age limit.- Shall be not less than 18 years and 
not more than 45 years of age ( the maximum age limit 
shall not be applicable for the candidates who are already 
serving in this institution).
02. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Shall have passed G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
in six subjects at one sitting with credit pass to 
Sinhala or tamil Language, mathematics and 
two other subjects ; 
 (b) Shall have passed at least one subject at G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination (except General Paper) and 
01 year diploma in Social Work counseling or 
Social development.
for internal Candidates : 
Qualifications :
 (a) Primary Grade
  Employees in unskilled, semi-skilled and 
skilled service categories who have satisfied 
qualifications mentioned in b, c and e of the 
following can apply for the same.
 (b) Shall have passed not less than six subjects in 
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination at one sitting with 
Credit passes to first language and Mathematics 
(
course on computer word processing/type 
writing recognize by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission followed by the 
candidates or the proficiency at equivalent level 
shall be included as qualifications wherever 
necessary. 
 (c) Shall hold permanent post in the service and 
further shall be confirmed in the appointments.
 (d) Shall have completed at least five years 
continuous and satisfactory service in a 
permanent appointment immediately preceding 
the prescribed date. 
03. Salary Scale.- 
ma-1-2-2016 - Rs. 27,910 -10x300- 
7x 350 - 12x600 - 12x710 - Rs. 49,080 monthly receivable 
salary scale ( management Services circular 02/2016 i as 
Schedule) ma-1-2-2006a - Rs. 13,450 -10x145 - 7x170 - 
12x 290 - 12x345 - Rs. 23,710 monthly salary will be paid 
as per Schedule 
ii of the same circular at present. 
Conditions/Nature of the appointments : 
1. the appointments are permanent.
2. the employees are entitled for the contributions to 
the EPf and Etf.
3. all appointments shall subject to a probation 
period of 03 years. 
Note.– The above vacancies exist at the Main Office at 
Nawala, Rajagiriya and Kilinochchi centre selected 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2717
management assistant, driver and K. K. S. shall 
serve only at the main office and Killinochchi Centre.
Service Condition.– all appointments made shall be 
conformed to the provisions of the National institute of 
the Social development, act, No. 41 of 1992 and other 
Government regulations. 
application along with a bio data should be sent by 
the Registered Post to the following address on or before 
09.12.2016 Name of the Post and preferred centre shall be 
written clearly on the top left hand  corner of the envelope 
and the applicants employed in the Government sector 
shall forward their applications through the head of the 
institute. 
 Riddley Jayasinghe, 
 director General, 
 National institute of Social development.
National institute of Social development, 
No. 488a, Nawala Road, 
Rajagiriya,
24th 
october, 2016. 
11–476
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEVELOPmENT AND 
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Department of Technical Education & Training
REcRUitmENt (oPEN) to GRadE iii of 
tHE PoSt of HoStEL matRoN of SERVicE 
catEGoRy of maNaGEmENt aSSiStaNt (NoN 
tEcHNicaL) SEGmENt 2 of tHE dEPaRtmENt 
of tEcHNicaL EdUcatioN & tRaiNiNG - 2016
aPPLicatioNS are invited from female applicants who 
have completed relevant qualifications to select suitable 
officer for the vacancy existing in the Post of Hostel 
matron of service category of 
management assistant (Non 
technical) Segment 02 of the department of technical 
Education and training. applicant who will select, 
will be attached to the vacancy existing in technical 
college, Kuliyapitiya which comes under the purview 
of the department of technical Education and training. 
applications on forms of the specimen mentioned at the 
end of this notification prepared according to the following 
instructions in 
a4 size paper using both sides should be 
sent under registered cover to reach the director General, 
department of technical Education and training P. o. box 
557, olcott mawatha, colombo 10 on or before the date 
under mentioned. the envelope enclosing the application 
should clearly be marked “Recruitment to the Post of 
Hostel matron” on the top left hand corner. the closing 
date of application is 11.12.2016.
Note.- inquiries, about applica tions or related letters 
lost or delayed in post cannot be considered. 
any damages that may cause due to the delay in 
submitting applications until the closing date should 
be borne by applicants, themselves.
 1. Recruitment Procedure.– Recruitment will be made 
on the results of structured interview and qualifications 
will also be examined
 Main headings to be given marks Maximum
  Marks
 Additional Educational Qualifications 20
 Additional Vocational Qualifications 35
 a dditional experience 30
 Language Proficiency 10
 Skills at the interview 05
 t otal 100
2. Educational Qualifications :
 (i) Have passed G. c.E. ( ordinary Level) 
Examination in one sitting. in six (06) subjects 
with credit pass for Sinhala/ tamil/English 
language, mathematics and another two 
subjects 
  and 
 (ii) Have passed at least one subject (except the 
General 
common test) in G.c.E. (advanced 
Level) Examination.
3. Vocational Qualifications.– Have followed full 
time National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 4 
course in 
management from an institution, recognized by 
the tertiary and V ocational Education commission and 
obtained a certificate.
4. Service experience.– Have obtained one year 
experience in relevant post/field in Government of 
Government registered institution.
5. Physical Fitness.– Every female applicant shall have 
sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of 
Sri Lanka and discharge the duties of the post.
6. Age limit.– Not less than 18 years and not more than 
30 years of age as at the closing date of applications.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2718
7. Other Qualifications :
 (i) female applicants should be citizen of Sri 
Lanka. 
 (ii) must have good moral character.
 (iii) All qualifications required to recruit to the post. 
should have been fulfilled on the closing date of 
applications, in every manner.
8. Salary Scale.– in terms of schedule i of salary circular 
bearing Public administration circular No. 03/2016, salary 
scale of mN-1-2016, Rs.27,140-10x300-11x350-10x495-
10x660-45,540/- (monthly) is applicable to this post. 
further in terms of schedule ii of that circular , relevant 
salary will be placed.
9. Mode of forwarding applications :
 (i) applications, prepared with No. 01-07 of 
specimen application appearing in 1st page. 
No. 08-10 appearing in 2nd page and the rest 
in next pages, should be completed in their own 
handwriting perfectly.
 (ii) applications, which are of noncompliance 
with specimen application and include in 
complete particulars and applications received 
after the closing date of applications will not 
be entertained. 
female applican ts are advised 
to send their applications in time to avoid the 
possibility of postal delay. 
 (iii) Signature of applicants should be attested by 
a principal of Government School, a Grama 
Niladari of a division, a justice of peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney at law, Notary 
Public, Commissioned officer in the armed 
force, permanent staff officer in Public or 
Provincial Public service with 
mN-7 initial step 
in terms of 3/2016 or above annual consolidated 
salary or a chief incumbent or a chief priest of 
a 
buddhist temple or a distinguish person, in 
charge of holy place of any other religion.
 (iv) Officers, who are already in public or provincial 
public service should submit applications, 
through their head of the institution.
 (v) your candidature will be repealed, if any 
information mentioned in the application 
being detected as incorrect or false, before 
the recruitment. if such information being 
detected after the recruitment, action will be 
taken to dismiss from the service, subject to the 
procedure relevant thereto.
10. Conditions of employment :
 (i) this post is perman ent and pensionable and 
selected applicant should contributed to the 
widows and orphans/widowers and orphans 
pension scheme.
 (ii) Female officers, who appointed to this post 
will be subjected to the period of 03 year 
probationary and should pass the 1st efficiency 
bar examination within such 03 years.
 (iii) in terms of provisions of public administration 
Circular No. 01/2014, relevant proficiency 
level of official language should be obtained.
 (iv) It is necessary to stay appointed female officers 
in hostel, on necessity.
 (v) this appointment subjects to the procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, 
Establishments code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. financial 
Regulations of the stay and department other 
orders.
11. director General of the department of technical 
Education and Training reserves the right to fill the vacancy.
12. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, the tamil and the English texts of this Gazette 
Notification, Sinhala text shall prevail.
 J. a. RanJith,
 director General.
department of technical Education & training, 
colombo 10 
11th November, 2016.
application foRm
 For office use
RecRuitment (open) to gRade iii of the post of hostel 
matRon of seRvice categoRy of  management assistant 
(non technical) segment 2 of the depaRtment of 
technical education and tRaining - 2016
01.  Name of the candidate :
 (i) Name with initials, initials at the end (in block 
capital letters) :–––––––––.
 (ii) full Name (in block capital letters) :––––––––.
 (iii) full Name (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2719
02.  address and telephone Number :
 (i) Official Address :–––––––––.
  telephone Number :–––––––––.
 (ii) Private address :–––––––––.
  telephone Number :–––––––––.
  (any change in the address or telephone 
Number, should be informed immediately)
03.   date of birth :
  year :–––––––. month :–––––––. date :–––––––. 
04.   age as at closing date of applications :
  years :–––––––.  months :–––––––.  days :–––––––. 
05.  National identity card Number :
06.  Sex - male/ female :–––––––. 
07.  Whether married/ unmarried/ widow :–––––––. 
08.  Educational Qualifications:
  GcE (o/L) Examination :  
  year :–––––––.   index No. :–––––––.  
  Subject Grade  
  GcE (a/L) Examination :  
  year :–––––––.   index No. :–––––––.  
  Subject Grade  
09.  V ocational Qualifications :
 examination/  Year Subjects Grade Name of the 
 Diploma    Institute/ 
 course    University
10.  Particulars of Experience :
 Institutions,  Post Period of Whether, Government/  
 worked  Service Government 
    Registered Institution
11. if you area a citizen of Sri Lanka state by decent or 
registration (if registration, state details) :–––––––––.
12. Whether you have been dismissed from Government 
post, that you had been holding? :–––––––––.
13. if you are already in Public Service, are there any 
departmental disciplinary inquiries against you? : 
–––––––––.
14. Whether you have been convicted in a  court? if so, 
state details :–––––––––.
i hereby certify  that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that 
if any particulars contained there in are found to be false 
and incorrect before the selection i am liable to disqualify 
and dismissal, without compensation, if the inaccuracy is 
detected after the appointment.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
15.  attestation of the Signature of the candidate :
i do hereby certify that mrs./miss …………………….. 
is personally known to me & placed her signature in my 
presence on ……………………………….
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of certifying officer.
(this part is applicable only for candidates who engage in 
Government employment)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2720
Attestation of the Head of the Department / Institution :
i hereby certify that mrs/ miss ………………………………………………. who is working in this ministry/ 
department/ institution is working in the post of ………………………………………………...................... and her work 
and conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action pending her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in 
further. if she will be selected for this post, she can/ cannot be released from the service.
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the Department of Authorized officer.
date :–––––––––––––. 
(Seal)
11-518
––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
GamPaHa   diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said muslim marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
14th of december, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekeRa,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla,
21st october, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division  Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha biyagama Post of muslim marriages Registrar of district Secretary/additional
     malwana - yatihena area in Siyane  Registrar General, district   
   Koralaya West division   Secretariat, Gampaha. 
11–475

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2721
DEPARTmENT   Of   OffICIAL   LANGuAGES 
Open/Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Posts of Translator (Sinhala/
English), (Tamil/English) and (Sinhala/Tamil) in the 
Department of Official Languages – 2016
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified Sri 
Lankan citizens for recruitment to the following posts in 
the Department of Official Languages.
translator (Sinhala/English)  - 08 posts 
translator (tamil/English)  - 02 posts
translator (Sinhala/tamil)  - 10 posts 
02. Monthly Salary Scale.– Rs. 36,585 10x660 -11x755 
- 15x930 - Rs. 65,440. (mN-6-2016). 
03. this post is permanent and pensionable. 
04. Recruitment Ratio : 
 Stream  Percentage 
open 75%
Limited 25%
merit Not Relevant
Note.– in case, the number of applicants is 
insufficient for the recruitments to be made under 
the open stream, such number of vacancies will 
be filled under the limited stream. In the event that 
the number of qualified candidates is insufficient 
under the limited stream, such number of 
vacancies to be filled under the open stream. 
05. Qualifications.– The following qualifications are 
required for the Posts of 
translator Grade ii (Sinhala/
English), (tamil/English) and (Sinhala/ tamil) - (Limited/
open). 
5.1 translator (Sinhala/English) :
 01. a d egree with Sinhala Language or English 
Language as a subject from a university recognized 
by the University Grants commission ; 
   and 
 (i) a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at the G. c. E (o/L) 
Examination for the applicants who have 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
followed Sinhala Language as a subject 
for the degree or a 
credit pass for Sinhala 
Language and Literature at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examina tion for the applicants 
who have followed English Language as 
a subject for the degree ;
  or
 (ii) a minimum of ordinary Pass for 
English Language at the G. c. E. ( a/L) 
Examination for the applicants who have 
followed Sinhala Language as a subject 
for the degree, or a minimum of 
ordinary 
Pass for Sinhala  Language at the G. c. 
E. ( a/L) Examination for the applicants 
who have followed English Language as 
a subject for the degree ; 
or
  02. a degree with 'translation methods' as a 
subject from a university recognized by the 
University Grants commission ; 
   and
 (i) a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at the G. c. E. ( o/L) 
Examination and a credit pass for Sinhala 
Language and Literature at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examination ; 
   or
 (ii) a minimum of ordinary Pass for 
English Language at the G. c. E. ( a/L) 
Examination and a minimum of ordinary 
Pass for Sinhala Language at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination ; 
   or
  03. The final degree (Pandit) from the Oriental 
Studies Society of Sri Lanka (the Pracheena 
bhashopakara Samagama) ;
   and
 (i) a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at the G. c. E. ( o/L) 
Examination ; 
   or
 (ii) a minimum of ordinary Pass for 
English Language at the G. c. E. ( a/L) 
Examination. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2722
Translator (Tamil/English) : 
  01. a degree with tamil Language or English 
Language as a subject from a University 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission ; and 
 (i) a credit pass for English Language/English 
Literature at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
for the applicants who have followed tamil 
Language as a subject for the degree, 
or a credit pass for tamil Language and 
Literature at the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
for the applicants who have followed English 
Language as a subject for the degree ; 
 or 
 (ii) a minimum of ordinary Pass for English 
Language at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
for the applicants who have followed tamil 
Language as a subject for the degree, or 
a minimum of ordinary Pass for tamil 
Language at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
for the applicants who have followed English 
Language as a subject for the degree. 
  02. a degree with " translation methods" as a 
subject from a university recognized by the 
University Grants commission ; and
 (i) a credit pass for English Language/
English Literature at the G. c. E. ( o/L) 
Examination and a credit pass for tamil 
Language and Literature at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examination ;  
 or 
 (ii) a minimum of ordinary Pass for 
English Language at the G. c. E. ( a/L) 
Examination and a minimum of ordinary 
Pass for tamil Language at the  G. c. E. 
(a/L) examination.
 Translator (Sinhala/Tamil) : 
  01. a degree with tamil Language or Sinhala 
Language as a subject from a university 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission ; and 
 (i) a credit pass for Sinhala Language 
and Literature at the G. c. E. ( o/L) 
Examination for the applicants who have 
followed tamil Language as a subject 
of the degree, or a credit pass for tamil 
Language and Literature at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examination for the applicants who 
have followed Sinhala Language as a 
subject for the degree ;  
  or
 (ii) a minimum of ordinary Pass for 
Sinhala Language at the G. c. E. ( a/L) 
Examination for the applicants who have 
followed tamil Language as a subject for 
the degree, or a minimum of ordinary 
Pass for tamil Language at the G. c. E. 
(a/L) Examination for the applicants who 
have followed Sinhala Language as a 
subject for the degree.
  02. a degree with " translation methods" as a 
subject, from a university recognized by the 
University Grants commission ; and 
 (i) a credit pass for Sinhala Language 
and Literature at the G. c. E. ( o/L) 
Examination and a credit pass for tamil 
Language and Literature at the G. c. E. 
(o/L) Examination ; 
  or 
 (ii) a minimum of ordinary Pass for 
Sinhala Language at the G. c. E. ( a/L) 
Examination and a minimum of ordinary 
pass for tamil Language at the G. c. E.    
(a/L) examination.
  03.  The final degree (Pandit) from the Oriental 
Studies Society of Sri Lanka (the Pracheena 
bhashopakara Samagama) ; and 
 (i) a credit pass for tamil Language at the  
G. c. E. (o/L) Examination ;  
  or 
 (ii) an ordinary pass for tamil Language at 
the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination.
5.2 Physical fitness.– Every applicant should be 
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of 
Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of the post. 
5.3 Other : 
 1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; 
 2. Should possess an excellent character ; 
 3. The applicant should have fulfilled, by every 
means, all the qualifications required as at 
the date mentioned in the Notice/ Gazette 
Notification for calling applications.  

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2723
 5.4  The officers who are currently in the Public 
Service should hold permanen t posts and have 
been confirmed in the respective posts. 
06. Conditions of Service : 
 (i) The Commissioner of Official Languages decides 
the number of appointments and the effective 
date of appointment. 
the commissioner of 
Official Languages has the Authority to fill a 
certain number of vacancies or all the vacancies. 
 (ii) Should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination 
within three (03) years after appointment to the 
post. 
 (iii) Language proficiency should be obtained in terms 
of Public administration circular No. 01/2014 
within five (05) years after the appointment to 
the post. 
 (iv) the selected applicants will be recruited to 
Grade ii of the post in terms of the provisions 
set out in the procedural Rules of the Public 
Service 
commission, published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1,586/30 dated 20.02.2009 
and the provisions set out in the Establishment 
code. 
 (v) all the recruitments will be subject to the 
approved Scheme of Recruitment and the 
amendments made to the same in future. 
 (vi) The officers in the Public Service should forward 
the applications through their respective Heads 
of the 
department/institution. 
07. Age limit :
open  :  Should not be less than 21 years and 
more than 35 years as at 
the closing date 
for applications. 
Limited  : Not Relevant. 
08. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments are made based on the results of a written test and a general interview 
will be conducted to examine qualifications.
8.1 Subjects of the examination : 
 Category Question Paper Duration Total marks Pass marks
translator 1. translation - 03 hours 100 40%
(Sinhala/English)  Sinhala to English 
 2. translation - 03 hours 100  40%
  Eglish to Sinhala
 3. Sinhala Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
 4. English Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
translator 1.  translation - 03 hours 100 40%
(English/tamil)  t amil to English 
 2. translation - 03 hours 100 40%
  English to tamil
 3. tamil Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
 4. English Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
translator  1. translation - 03 hours 100 40%
(Sinhala/tamil)  Sinhala to tamil
 2. translation - 03 hours 100 40%
  t amil to Sinhala
 3. Sinhala Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%
 4. t amil Language 1 and 1/2 hours 100 40%

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2724
8.2 Syllabus : 
 Question Paper Syllabus 
Translator 1. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific, 
(Sinhala/English)  Sinhala to English  technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from  
     Sinhala into English.
 2. Translation - Translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific,    
  English to Sinhala  technological, aesthetic, lietrary and religious documents from  
     English into Sinhala.
 3. Sinhala Language Writing an essay, writing a pre´cis, summarizing a given passage    
     with own words, constructing meaningful sentence using given 
     words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, defining 
     idioms, spelling. 
 4. English Language Writing an  essay, constructing meaningful sentence using given    
     words, defining idioms, clause analysis - compound and complex  
     sentences 
translator 1. translation - translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal, scientific, 
(tamil/English)  t amil to English  technological, aesthetic, literary and religious documents from  
     t amil into English.
 2. translation - translate 03 passages selected from administrative, legal,     
  English to Tamil  scientific, technological, aesthetic, literary and religious 
     documents from English into tamil.
 3. tamil language Writing an essay, writing a pre ´ cis, summarizing a given passage    
     with own words, constructing meaningful sentence using given  
     words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, defining    
     idioms, spelling. 
 4. English language Writing an essay, constructing meaningful sentence using given    
     words, defining idioms, clause analysis compound and complex    
     sentences.
Translator 1. Translation - Translate 03 passages from administrative, legal, scientific, 
(Sinhala/tamil)  t amil to Sinhala  technological, aesthetic, literary and religious - documents from  
     t amil into Sinhala.
 2. Translation - Translate 03 passages from administrative, legal, scientific,     
  Sinhala to tamil  technological, aesthetics, literatry and religious documents from 
     Sinhala into tamil.
 3. Sinhala language Writing an essay, writing a pre ´ cis, summarizing a given passage, 
     with own words constructing meaningful sentences using given 
     words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, defining    
     idioms, spellings. 
 4. tamil language Writing an essay, writing a pre ´ cis, summarizing a given passage,    
     with own words constructing meaningful sentences using given 
     words, correcting grammar mistakes in sentences, defining    
     idioms, spellings. 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2725
09. Punishments for poviding false information.– 
candidates should carefully provide the accurate 
information when filling the application. If it is revealed 
that a candidate does not have the necessary qualifications, 
the candidature can be cancelled at any time, before, 
after or during the examination. 
if it is revealed after 
appointment to the post that some information given is 
incorrect, he/she is liable to be dismissed from the Public 
Service. 
the fact that an admission card has been issued to 
a candidate should not be regarded as an acceptance that 
the candidate has satisfied  all the requirements to appear 
for the examination. 
candidates should abide by the rules 
imposed by the Commissioner of Official Languages 
regarding the examination. 
in case of violation of any such 
rule, he or she will be subjected to a punishment imposed 
by the Commissioner of Official Languages. 
10. 
in the event of any inconsistencies or discrepancies 
between Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette 
Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
11. examination fee.– the examination fee is Rs. 1,000. 
Payment of examination fee can be made at any divisional 
Secretariat or district Secretariat to be credited to the 
Revenue Head 2003-99-00 of the director General of 
treasury operations. the receipt obtained for the payment 
of the examination fees from the divisional/district 
Secretariat should be pasted in the relevant cage of the 
application form. (it is advisable to retain a photocopy of 
the same with you). for no reason will these examination 
fees be refunded. 
12. candidates should carefully  provide the accurate 
information when filling the application. If it is revealed 
that a candidate does not have the necessary qualifications, 
the candidature can be cancelled at any time, before, after or 
during the examination. 
if it is revealed after appointment 
to the post that some information given is incorrect, he/she 
is liable to be dismissed from the Public Service. 
13. 
the application should be prepared using a4 (24 x 
29cm) size papers as follows : 
 (a)  Sections 1 to 3.4 on the first page ; and 
 (b) Section 4 onwards in the next pages. 
 (c)  When preparing the application, the title of 
the examination should be in both Sinhala and 
English Languages in applications prepared in 
Sinhala, and in both 
tamil and English Languages 
in applications prepared in tamil. the application 
should be clearly filled in the candidate's 
handwriting. 
 13.1 the top left-hand corner of the envelope in 
which the application form is enclosed should 
carry the words “Recruitment to the Post of 
Translator (Sinhala/English), (Tamil/Engl ish) 
and (Sinhala/Tamil) - 2016”. 
 13.2 the duly perfected application should be sent 
under Registered cover to reach the following 
address on or before 14.12.2016. Late applications 
will not be entertained :
  Commissioner of Official Languages,
  Department of Official Languages, 
  No. 341/7, bhasha mandiraya, 
  Kotte Road, 
  Rajagiriya. 
 13.3 the signature of the applicant given in the 
application form has to be attested by a Principal 
of a Government School, a Justice of the Peace, 
a 
commissioner for oaths, a Notary Public, a 
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, or by 
a Public officer who is confirmed in his post and 
who receives an  annual salary of Rs. 292,080 or 
above. 
 13.4 those who are already in Public Service should 
send the applications through their respective 
Heads of 
department/institution. 
14. any of the following documents should be produced 
to the examiner in charge of the examination hall, to 
establish the identity of the candidate :
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) a valid Passport. 
15. the right to decide on any matter not mentioned in 
this notification rests with the Commissioner of Official 
Languages. 
applicants should abide by the general rules 
referred to in this Gazette notification.  
 W. a. JayawickRama (attorney-at-Law), 
 Commissioner of Official Languages, 
 Department of Official Languages. 
No. 341/7, bhasha mandiraya, 
Kotte Road, 
Rajagiriya.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2726
SPEcimEN  aPPLicatioN  foRm
application foR the post of tRanslatoR (sinhala/
english), (tamil/english) and (sinhala/tamil)
 For office use 
the post applied : 
(indicate the relevant number)
 01.  translator (Sinhala/English) 
 02. translator (tamil/English)
 03. translator (Sinhala/tamil)
1. Name :
  1.1 Name with initials (mr./mrs./miss) :–––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
  1.2 full Name :–––––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
  1.3 full Name :–––––––––––.
   (Sinhala/tamil)
  1.4 Nic No. : 
2. a ddress : 
 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
 2.2 Official Address :–––––––––––.
   (in English block Letters)
 2.3 Official Address :–––––––––––.
  (Sinhala/tamil)
 2.4 the address to which the admission should be 
sent :–––––––––––. 
   (in English block Letters)
 2.5 telephone No. :–––––––––––.
 2.6 the district of permanent residence :––––––––––.
 2.7 the duration of residency :–––––––––––.
 2.8 GS division :–––––––––––.
3.  3.1 Sex :  female  - 1
    m ale  - 0
    (indicate the relevant number)
  3.2 civil Status : 
    m arried - 1
    Unmarried - 2
    (indicate the relevant number)
  3.3 date of birth : 
   year  month  date 
  3.4 a ge as at 11.11.2016 : 
   years  months   days 
4. Educational qualifications : 
  4.1 (a) degree :–––––––––––.
   (b) the year in which the degree was obtained  
  and  the university :–––––––––––.
   (c) Subjects of the degree :–––––––––––.
  4.2 the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
    (i) year and the month of the examination : 
  ––––––––.
    (ii) index Number :–––––––––––.
    (iii) Results : 
  Subject Grade
  4.3 the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination :
    (i) year and the month of the examination :
     ––––––––.
    (ii) index Number :–––––––––––.
    (iii) Results : 
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
05. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law for any 
accusation ? :
 (mark P in the relevant cage)
 y es     No
 i f ‘yes’ give details :–––––––––––.
06. Examination fees : 
  (i) The office at which the examination fee was paid  
  :–––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt number and the date :–––––––––––.
  (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Paste here firmly the receipt for the payment of 
the examination fee 
(keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2727
07. declaration of the applicant : 
i hereby declare  that the information furnished by me 
in this application is true and accurate to my knowledge 
and belief and that i agree to a decision to cancel my 
candidature before, during or after the examination if it 
is found that I am disqualified in terms of the conditions 
applicable to it. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the Applicant's Signature : 
i certify  that mr./mrs./miss ....................................... 
who has signed above is known to me personally and that 
he/she placed the signature in my presence. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attestor. 
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(for applicants currently in the Public Service)
Certification of the Head of the Department : 
i hereby certify that the applicant, mr./mrs./miss 
........................ has been serving in this office since 
........................ and that his/her performance and conduct 
is quite satisfactory and that 
i have examined all the 
information given above by referring the office records 
personally and that the information furnished is accurate 
and that he/she signed in my presence on ................. of 
..................... 2016. 
the applicant can/cannot be released from his/her 
service if selected for the above post. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the department. 
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
11–558
mINISTRy Of DISASTER mANAGEmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Tele Communication and Radar 
Technical Officers (Grade III) of the Sri Lanka 
Technologies Service - 2016
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified Sri 
Lankan citizens for the open competitive examination 
for recruitment to the posts of 
tele communication and 
Radar Technical Officers (Grade III) of the Sri Lanka 
technologies Service that have fallen vacant in the 
meteorological department. 
 1.1 Name of the designation. tele communication 
and Radar Technical Officer. 
 1.2 Nature of the duty :
 * maintenance and repair of all electrical and 
radar equipment. 
 * Repair computer systems and internets.
 * other tasks assigned by the Heads of 
departments.
2.0 the number of appointm ents and the date of 
appointment will be determined by the appointing 
authority. The appointing authority has the power not to fill 
all or a certain number of vacancies. 
3.0 Salary :-
 c hart - No. 01
 Grade Salary Scale Initial monthly  
   salary
Grade iii Rs. 31,040 -10x445 - 
 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - 
 Rs. 57,550 per month 
 (mN 3-2016)
Grade ii Rs. 31,040 -10x445 - 
 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - 
 Rs. 57,550 per month
 (mN 3-2016)
Grade i Rs. 31,040 -10x445 - 
 11x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - 
 Rs. 57,550 per month 
 (Starts from the salary 
 step 23)(mN 3-2016) 
Rs. 18,212 
(
as per the 
schedule ii 
of the Pa 
circular 
03/2016)
Rs. 21,218 
(as per the 
schedule ii 
of the Pa 
circular 
03/2016)
Rs. 25,532 
(as per the 
schedule ii 
of the Pa 
circular 
03/2016)

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2728
4.0 Service conditions of the post : 
 4.1 Public Officers appointed to permanent and 
pensionable posts should contribute to the 
'Widows and orphans' Pension Scheme 
from their salary an amount equivalent to 
the precentage the Government requires to 
recover from their salary. 
the appointment 
is subject to a probation period of 3 years. 
the person who is selected is subjected to 
the general conditions with regard to the 
appointments made in the Public Service as 
mentioned in the beginning of this Gazette 
Notification and the service minute of the 
Sri Lanka 
technological Service and the 
amendments made to it from time to time, 
work procedures of the Public Service 
commission, Establishment code, financial 
Regulations and other orders and regulations 
issued by the government from time to time 
about the public service. 
 4.2 An officer recruited in a medium of language 
other than the official language should pass 
the official languages test within a period of 
three months from the date he was appointed 
to the post. 
failure to pass this test within 
the required period of time will lead to the 
suspension of the salary increment. 
 4.3 according to the P a circular 1/2014 
proficiency of the second official language 
should be acquired within a period of 05 
years from the date he was appointed to the 
post. Failure to acquire the proficiency will 
lead to the stoppage of salary increments. 
 4.4 Office hours are not always the normal office 
hours and there will be duty on day and night 
and Saturdays and Sundays and in Public 
Holidays. Sometimes duty rosters will also 
be used to assign duties. 
 4.5 the selected candidates should serve in any 
part of the island. 
5.0 Qualifications :-
 5.1 Basic Qualifications.- The applicant must :
 (a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (b) be 18 years to the closing date of the 
applications and the maximum age limit 
is 30 (
those who were born on or before 
14.12.1998 and who were born on or 
after 14.12.1986 are eligible to apply for 
this). 
 5.2 Educational Qualifications:
 (a) Having passed the G. c. E. ( ordinary 
Level) Examination in six subjects with 
credit passes including Sinhala/ tamil/
English, Science, mathematics and one 
other subject in one sitting ; 
  and
 (b) Having passed the G. c. E. ( a/L) 
Examination in 03 subjects in one 
sitting. Subject combination should be as 
follows: 
 (i) Physics, Pure mathematics and 
applied math ematics having 
passed on subject from 
 (i) Pure mathematics/applied/combined 
mathematics ; 
  and
 (ii) c hemistry/agriculture/information 
technology/computer Science including 
Physics.
  5.3 Professional Qualifications for the subject 
area of light electricity or light electricity and 
telecommunication. 
 (i) completion of NVQ Level 6 in a related 
field ;
  or
 (ii) the national technical diploma awarded 
by the University of moratuwa or Hardy 
institute at ampara ;
  or
 (iii) National Engineering diploma awarded 
by National apprentice and industrial 
training authority ;
  or
 (iv) National Higher Engineering diploma 
awarded by the ministry of Education 
and Higher Education ;
   or
 (v) technological diploma awarded by the 
open University ;
   or
 (vi) Successful completion of the first 
part of the Engineering Examination 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Engineering 
institution ;
  or

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2729
 (vii) Other technical qualifications 
equivalent to the above mentioned 
technical qualifications recognized by 
the 
tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission after obtaining the opinion 
of the ministry of Higher Education 
and the institutions that issue technical 
certificates.
 5.4 Physical Qualifications :
  Each candidate should be physically and 
mentally 
fit to serve in any part of the island. If 
proven unfit by the medical test conducted after 
the recruitment you will be disqualified for the 
post.
Note: all the qualifications should be fulfilled 
at the closing date of the applications.
6.0 
examination Procedure.– Examination is a written 
test with two subjects. this examination is conducted in 
Sinhala and tamil medium and the medium you applied is 
not allowed to be changed at a later stage.
  Total number of Duration
  marks
 i   General intelligence 100 01 hr
 ii   technical question
  paper on subject matter 100 02hrs
7. Syllabus :
 (i) General intelligence :
  this paper consist of 50 multiple choice and 
questions for short answers to assess the level 
of logical comprehension, analytical skills and 
the decision making power of the candidate. 
all 
questions shall be answered.
 (ii) Subject related technical question paper:
  this paper consist of questions to assess the 
subject knowledge of the candi date with regard 
to the subjects like G cE ( a/L) physics and 
electronic science, mechanics, measurements and 
units, properties of matter, shocks and waves, 
heat and electricity, fundamentals in electricity, 
semiconductors, digital technology, various 
communication and data exchanges system.
8.0 Selection Procedure :-
 8.1  Recruitments to the vacancies that are expected 
to be filled are made based on the order of 
merit of the candidates who scored the highest 
marks in the written test. (
the candidates who 
failed to prove the basic qualifications will not 
be recruited even though they achieved the 
expected merit level in the examination).
 8.2  the list of names of the candidates who 
have passed the written test according to the 
paragraph 6.0 of this notice will be handed 
over to the 
director General of meteorological 
department. the results of the candidates who 
sat for the examination will be informed to 
the candidates individually or publish in the 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk
9.0 Preparation of applications :
 9.1  applications should be prepared in the same 
medium of language in which the applicant 
intends to sit for the examination.
 9.2  application submitted in Sinhala and tamil 
should have the name of the examination 
mentioned on the top in the relevant language 
and in English.
 9.3  according to the specimen application form 
that has been mentioned at the end of this 
notice the application should be prepared in 
21cm X 29cm (
a4) papers using the both sides 
of the paper, application should be prepared 
including the heads from number 01 to 07 in the 
first page, number 08.00 to 11.1 in the second 
page and number 12.0 - 16 in third page and 
head number 17 in the forth page.
10.0  Completion of Applications :
 10.1   The application should be filled by the 
candidate his/her own hand writing.
 10.2   it should be comple ted accurately since the 
medium of language in which  you sit for the 
examination is not allowed to be changed at a 
later stage.
 10.3  Examination fees should be paid and the 
receipt should be affixed in the relevant place.
 10.4  the signature of the applicants should be 
certified in the application and in the admission 
for the examination. 
an applicant who applied 
from a certain institution should certify his 
signature by the head of the institution or 
from an authorized officer of the head of 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2730
the institution and other candidates should 
certify their signatures from a Principal of a 
government school, a Grama Niladhari, Justice 
of Peace, a 
commissioner for oaths, a lawyer, 
a Notary Public, a commissioned officer in the 
three forces or a staff grade officer in the public 
service or in the provincial public service who 
get an annual salary of Rs. 240,360/- or more.
 10.5  Providing false information.–  if it is found that 
a certain candidate does not possess required 
qualifications to sit for this examination 
or he/she has purposely furnished false 
information or he/she has willfully suppressed 
any important facts there are provisions to 
cancel his/her candidacy during or after the 
examination and if such a thing is revealed 
after the appointment was given he/she will be 
liable for dismissal from the service.
11.0 Sending applications :
 11.1  the completed application form should be sent 
by registered post on or before 14.12.2012 to the 
following address.
 11.2  Sending the application :
  commissioner General of Examinations,
  organization and foreign Examination branch,
  department of Examinations,
  P.o. box 1503,
  c olombo.
 11.3  the applicants who are in the public and 
provincial public service at present should sent 
their applications through the respective Heads 
of 
department and those who are in the statutory 
bodies of the government and institutions 
like Local 
authorities should submit their 
applications through the heads of the relevant 
institutions on or before the specific date.
 11.4  ''Recruitment to the Post of tele communication 
and Radar Technical Officers of the Sri 
Lanka technologies service- department of 
meteorology' should be mentio ned on the top 
left hand coner of the envelop.
 11.5  it is advisable to keep a copy of the completed 
application form and the receipt of the payment.
12.0 Receiving applications and issuing of admissions.
 12.1  applications that have not been completed 
according to the format, and that have been 
completed incorrectly and that have not been 
paid examination fees before the expected date 
will be rejected without any notice. 
the loss 
incurred due to the incorrect completion of the 
application should be borne by the applicant. it is 
advisable to keep a copy of the application. the 
applicant should verify whether the application 
complies with the specimen application form in 
the notice, as otherwise, the application may be 
rejected.
 12.2  Receipt of the application wil not be informed. 
complaints with regard to the misplacement of 
applications in the post will not be considered.
 12.3  the commissioner General of Examinations 
issues admission cards to the applicants who 
are within the required age limit and who have 
sent correctly completed applications on or 
before the closing date of applications. 
issuing 
of admission cards to sit for the examination will 
not be considered that the applicants is qualified 
to sit for the examination or to be appointed in 
this post. 
the candidacy of the applicants will 
be cancelled if the candidates do not possess the 
required qualifications when they are summoned 
for the interview and examied whether they 
posses required qualification according to the 
Gazzette.
 12.4  once the applicants are issued with the 
admission card the Sri Lanka department of 
Examinations publish a notice in the newspapers 
mentioning that. 
if you did not receive the 
admission card within the two or three days after 
the notice is published it should be informed to 
the Examination 
department of Sri Lanka. it is 
appropriate to inquire from the department of 
Examination with the copy of the application, 
the copy of the receipt that paid money to the 
Examination 
department, the receipt of the 
registered post letter, along with your name, 
address, N
ic Number and the name of the exam. 
if you are a candidate outside the city of colombo 
it is appropriate to send a letter of request with a 
fax number along with other documents to the 
department of Examinations to get a copy of the 
admission.
13. examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 750/-
. this amount should be paid from any post or sub post 
office to be credited to the government revenue under 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2731
Expenditure head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations and the receipt obtained to the 
name of the applicant should be affixed from one side in 
the specific place of the application. Money orders and 
stamps are not accepted for examination fees and the 
amount paid as examination fees is non refundable and 
cannot be transferred for another examination under any 
circumstance. 
it is advisable to keep a copy of the receipt.
14.0 Appearing for the examinations :
 14.1  this exam will be conducted in february 
2017 in colombo by the department of 
Examinations in Sinhala and tamil medium.
 14.2  the candidates should get their admissions 
attested in advance and surrender it to the 
supervisor of the hall and if not you are not 
allowed to sit for the examination. 
further 
the candidates should face the exam in the 
examination centre allocated to him/her
.
 14.3  the candidates shall be bound by the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination imposed. Violation 
of such rules is a punishable offence and 
such candidates are liable to any punishment 
imposed by the 
commissioner General of 
Examinations.
15.0 Identity of the Candidates.– the applicants are 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject. the 
following documents are accepted for that.
 (i) the valid National identity card issued by the 
department of registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid pass port.
16.0 any other matter that has not been mentioned here 
will be decided by the director General meteorological 
department. all the applicants are bound to act according 
to the general examination regulations mentioned in this 
Gazette.
17.0 in the event of any inconsistency prevailed among 
the Sinhala and tamil texts of the notice the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 lalith chandRapala,
 director General of meteorology,
 department of meteorology.
department of meteorology,
bauddhaloka mawatha, 
colombo 07,
11th November, 2016. 
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN foRm
open competitive examination foR RecRuitment to the post of tele communication and 
RadaR technical officeRs (gRade iii) of the sRi lanka technologies seRvice - 2016
 medium of Examination Sinhala  - 2
 tamil  - 3
  
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01.  (a)  Name in full (in English block letters) :–––––––––––––.
   (ex.: HERatH  mUdiyaNSELaGE  SamaN  KUmaRa  GUNaWaRdHaNa)
  (a) Last name with initials  :–––––––––––––.
   (in English block letters)
   (ex.: GUNaWaRdHaNa, H. m. S. K)
 
  
(b) Name in full  :–––––––––––––.
   (Sinhala/tamil)
02. Nic Number :
03. male / female : male  - 0
    female  - 1  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2732
04. Permanent address :
  (a) (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
  (b) in English :
   (in block letters)
   (admission will be posted to this address)
  (c) district of permanent domicile :––––––––––––.
  (d) divisional Secretariat division :––––––––––––.
  (e) telephone No :  Permanent :––––––––––––.    mobile :––––––––––––.
05.  (a) date of birth :  year month date
  (b) age as at 14.12.2016  : years months days
06. civil Status :   married - 1
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage) Single - 2
07. Ethnicity :
 Sinhala - 1 tamil -2 other - 3 (write the relevant number inside the box)
08. Educational Qualifications :
  (a) GcE (o/L) Examination
   f irst shy :     Second shy  : 
   y ear  :––––––––––.   y ear  :––––––––––.
   i ndex Number  :––––––––––.   i ndex Number  :––––––––––.
  Serial number Subject Grade Serial number Subject Grade
  (b) GcE (a/L) Examination :
   y ear :–––––––––.   index No. :–––––––––.
  Serial number Subject Grade 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2733
09.  Professional Qualifications/Technical Qualifications :
 09.1 Name of the institutions from which the degree/
diploma was awarded :–––––––––––.
 09.2 the date from which the relevant degree/diploma 
is valid :–––––––––––.
10.  Other Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
11. Have you ever convicted of any offence in a court 
of Law or are there any on going judicial procedures 
against you at present? yes/No
 11.1  if yes submit the details :–––––––––––.
12. if the applic ant is currently employed in the public 
sector or the provincial public sector the name of the 
designation, the name of the department and its address  
:––––––––––.
13.
 if the applicant was previously employed in the public 
sector/provincial public service the reason to resign 
from the job  :––––––––––.
14.
  details about paying the Examination fees :
 14.1 The post office/ sub post office from which the 
payment was made :–––––––––––.
 14.2 No. of the receipt :–––––––––––.
 14.3 the date on which the payment was made :–––––.
The receipt of the payment should be affixed here 
and a copy of the receipt should be kept with you.
15.  Certificate of the applicant :
 (a) i hereby certify that the information furnished 
by me in this application is true and correct and 
required qualifications have been fulfilled on 
14.12.2016
 (b) I know that I would be disqualified if the above 
statement made by me is proved to be false and 
would be dismissed from the service if proved as 
such after being appointed to the post.
 (c) t he receipt with regard to the payment of                        
Rs. 750 is pasted in the relevant place.
 (d) i declare that i would abide by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner general 
of Examinations.
 (e) any information that has been mentioned above 
will not be changed at a later stage.
   ––––––––––––––,
   Name of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
16. Certification of the signature of the applicant :
 i hereby certify  that mr./mrs./miss…………….who 
issubmitting this application is known to me  p er s o n a l l y 
and he/she signed under the above paragraph 15 on………
in front of me. 
i further certify that he/she has paid the 
examination fees and the receipt in this regard has been 
affixed herein.
     
 ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the certifier.
date :––––––––––.
Name of the certifier :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(attest with the seal)
17. Recommendation of the Head of the department : 
(only for the applicants from the public/provincial 
public service)
 17.1  i hereby certify that that above mentioned mr./
mrs./miss……………. is serving in a post of 
………..In the office of………….with effect 
from…………….
 17.2 According to the personal file of the officer, 
his/her work, behavior, attendance during the 
period of five years prior to the closing date of 
applications is satisfactory/unsatisfactory.
  all the salary increments have/ have not being 
earned. Has/has not been subjected to any 
disciplinary action.
  (if there is any disciplinary action mention the 
details) :––––––––––.
 17.3  This officer can /cannot be released from the 
current position if he/she got selected for the post 
he/she applied for.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and the seal of the 
 Head of the department.
date :–––––––––––.
11–504

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2734
mINISTRy Of LAbOuR AND TRADE uNION 
RELATIONS
Limited Competitive Examination for 
Recruitment to the Post of 
Labour Officer - II in the Department of 
Labour - 2016
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens 
who have fulfilled qualification s stated in Para 02 as at 
the closing date of applications i.e. 14.12.2016   to be 
recruited on Limited basis, according to the provisions in 
the Scheme of recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission and the decision of the cabinet of ministers 
No. : wum/16/0473/712/005 and dated 26.07.2016 in order 
to 
fill 89 vacancies exist in the posts of Labour Officer- II in 
the department of Labour which comes under the ministry 
of Labour and trade Union Relations. the examination 
will be held in the examination centers in colombo only.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be 
made according to the merit order of the results of written 
examination and scrutinizing of qualifications by an 
interview.
02. Qualifications :
 2.1 Educational Qualifications/Professional Qualifications/ 
Experience:
 (a)  Having a degree obtained by a University 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission or being a Lawyer who has 
taken oaths in Supreme court and having 
completed an active and satisfactory period 
of service 
of not less than five (05) years in 
a permanent and pensionable post which 
carries a salary scale 
mN-1-2006-a or 
above in Public / Provincial Public Service; 
  or
 (b)  Having completed an active and satisfactory 
period of service of not less than ten (10) 
years in a permanent and pensionable post 
which carries a salary 
scale mN-1-2006-a or 
above in Public / Provincial Public Service 
as at the date stated in the application calling 
notification.
  2.2 Physical Fitness.– Every candidate should be 
fit 
physically and mentally in every respect to 
serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform the 
duties in the post. 
 
  2.3 Other Qualifications :
 (i) Appointment should have been confirmed.
 (ii) Should have a satisfactory period of 
service during the period of five years (05) 
immediately preceding the date that the 
qualifications have been fulfilled.
 (iii) Should have earned all the increments during 
the 05 years immediately preceding the date 
that the qualifications have been fulfilled.
 (iv) Should have not been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment other than warnings 
during immediately preceding five years.
 (v) All the necessary qualifications required 
for the post should have been fulfilled in 
every respect as at the date mentioned in the 
application calling notification.
03. Age Limit.– Not relevant 
04. Terms of 
employment and Service Conditions: 
 (i) t his post is permanent.
 (ii) t he post is subject to an acting period of one 
year.
 (iii) 1st Efficiency Bar should be passed as mentioned 
in the Scheme of Recruitment before lapse of 03 
years from the date of appointment.
 (iv) i n terms of Public administration circular No. 
01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto, the 
prescribed Proficiency of the Official Language 
should be acquired within 05 years from the date 
of appointment.
 (v) Selected candidates will be appointed to the 
post of Labour Officer - Grade II subject to the 
general conditions governing the appointments 
in the Public Service. Procedural Rules of Public 
Service 
commission, financial Regulations, 
Provisions in the Establishment s code and any 
amendments made or to be made hereafter and 
the terms and conditions set out in the Scheme 
of Recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission on 26.09.2013 and subject to any 
amendments made or to be made here after to the 
Scheme of Recruitment. 
 (vi) Selected candidates should serve in any part of 
the island in which they are called upon to serve.
 (vii) c ommissioner General of Labour has the power 
to cancel the appointment of an applicant who 
fails to assume duties on due date in the post 
offered, and/or who rejects or avoids assuming 
duties in the appointed post or appointed area.
05. Salary Scale.– 
the monthly salary scale applied to 
this post is Rs.34,605-10x660-11x755-15x930-Rs. 63,460/- 
(Salary code mN-05-2016 as per Public administration 
circular No.03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. Salary will be paid 
according to the schedule ii of said circular.)
 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2735
06. Written examination.– Written examination will 
consist of 02 question papers.
    
 Question  Time Maximum Pass
 Paper  Marks Marks
01. Labour Laws 03 hours 100 40
02. case Study 03 hours 100 40
the examination  will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil 
and English medium only. candidates are not allowed to 
change the medium later.
a candidate should sit for the examination in the 
language in which passed the Qualifying Examination/ 
Interview to enter the Public Service or in an Official 
Language. 
further, a candidate should answer all the 
question papers in the same language.
candidates should sit for all the question papers and 
only those who have obtained 40% or more marks for 
each paper will be called for the General 
interview. the 
number of candidates calling for the interview, the number 
of vacancies to be filled, and the effective date of the 
appointment will be decided by the 
commissioner General 
of Labour.
in the event of several candida tes obtaining the same 
marks, the decision shall be taken by the commissioner 
General of Labour according to the instructions of Public 
Service Commission, which shall be final.
07. the syllabus of the written examination is as follows:
 Name of the  Syllabus
 Question Paper
01. Labour Laws
 (vi) Payment of Gratuity act,  
No. 12 of 1983.
 (vii) trade Unions ordinance  
No. 14 of 1935.
 (viii) Employment of Women, 
young Persons and children 
act, No. 47 of 1956.
 (ix) Maternity Benefits  Ordinance
  No. 32 of 1939.
 (x) factories ordinance  
  No.  45 of 1942
this question paper is designed to 
test the creative thinking ability 
and problem solving ability of 
a candidate. 
for this purpose, 
problems created by combining one 
or more situations will be presented 
to the candidate to be answered.
08. Interview.– General 
interview will be held only to 
scrutinize qualifications and marks will not be given.
N.B.– appearing for the interview shall not be deemed 
as fulfillment of qualifications to be offered the 
appointment.
09. examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 1,200. it 
should, before closing date of applications, be paid in cash 
to any Post office / Sub Post Office in Sri Lanka under the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General 
of Examinations so as to be credited to the government 
revenue. 
the receipt obtained in favour of the candidate 
upon payment of examination fee should be pasted firmly 
on the specified place in the application by one border 
of it. 
money orders or stamps will not be accepted as 
examination fee. the examination fee once paid will not 
be refunded under any circumstances or it will not be 
transferred for any other examination. 
it will be useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt. 
10. Method of Application :
 (a) t he application form should conform to the 
attached specimen application form and it should be 
prepared using both sides of a 
a4 size paper in such 
a manner that item numbers 01-8.2 on the first page, 
9-13.10 on the second page, 13.11-15 on the third 
 Name of the  Syllabus
 Question Paper
02. case Study
the question paper will be based 
on the below mentioned acts and 
ordinances.
 (i) Wages boards ordinance 
No. 27 of 1941.
 (ii) Shop and Office Employees 
(Regulation of Employment 
and Remuneration) 
act, No. 
19 of 1954.
 (iii) industrial disputes act,    
No. 43 of 1950.
 (iv) Employees Provident fund 
act, No. 15 of 1958.
 (v) termination of Employment 
of Workmen (Special 
Provisions) act, No. 45 of 
1971.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2736
regarding the loss or delay of application will not 
be accepted.
11. department of Examinations, Sri Lanka will publish 
a notice in news papers after issuing admission cards. if 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
publishing such notice, you should notify to organizations 
and f oreign Examinations branch of the department of 
Examinations Sri Lanka in the manner specified in the 
notice. When notify the name of the examination applied 
for, 
full Name, address and the National identity card 
number of the applicant should be mentioned. if you 
are an applicant outside colombo, you should notify the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka by fax using 
the fax number mentioned in the notice, along with the 
above particulars and a letter of request furnishing a fax 
number to send you a copy of the admission card by fax. 
moreover, in the event of inquiring from the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, it would be more useful to keep in 
prepared the copies of the application form, receipt obtained 
for payment of Examination fee and the registration receipt 
obtained for posting of application in order to prove any 
information requested by the 
department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka.
12. Appearing For the examination : 
 (a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all applicants 
who have correctly perfected their application. 
a candidate who fails to produce any his / her 
admission card will not be permitted to sit for 
the examination.
 (b) a candidate must sit for the examination at 
his / her respective examination hall under the 
relevant index number. Every candidate who 
sit for the examination should hand over their 
admission card with their signature certified, 
to the Chief Examiner on the first day of 
examination is held.
 (c) candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in respect of holding 
the examination. if a candidate violates these 
rules and regulations he / she will be liable 
to a punishment imposed by the decision of 
the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
the decision of the commissioner General 
of Examinations shall be final in respect of 
holding of examination and issuing of results.
page and remaining numbers on the fourth page. 
computerized / typed/ Written application forms 
can be used for this purpose. the particulars in 
the application form should be filled clearly by 
the applicants own hand writing. 
the application 
forms which do not conform to the specimen 
application form and incomplete applications 
will be rejected without notice. 
it might be useful 
for the applicant to keep a photo copy of the 
application. 
the applicant should check whether 
the prepared application form conforms to the 
specimen application form indicated at the end 
of the notification and if it does not conform the 
application might be rejected.
 (b) The application form should be filled in the 
language in which the candidates wish to sit for 
the examination. 
if the application is prepared 
in Sinhala or tamil the name of the examination 
should be written in English in addition to 
Sinhala or tamil. 
 (c)  Post held by the applicant and his / her work place 
at the time of applying for the examination will 
be applicable in respect of all the matters relevant 
to the examination and any change taking place 
in that regard after sending applications will not 
be considered.
 (d) candidate should get his/her signature attested 
by the head of the department or by an officer 
authorized by the head.
 (e) the completed application form should be sent 
through the Head of the department by registered 
post so as to reach the below mentioned address 
on or before 14.12.2016 the term “Limited 
competitive Examination for Recruitment of 
Labour Officer- II –  2016” should be  written  
at  the  top  left  hand  corner  of  the envelope in 
which the  application is sent.  
any application 
received after the closing date will not be 
accepted.
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organizations and foreign Examination branch, 
  department of Examinations - Sri Lanka,
  P.o box 1503,
  c olombo.
 (f) any application which is not completed in 
every respect will be rejected. any complaint 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2737
 (d) examination results:
  the result sheet, including the names of the 
candidates who will secure 40% or more 
marks in the examination for each subject 
will be sent to the Public Service 
commission 
according to the notification of the secretary of 
the Public Service commission.Results will be 
personally posted to every candidate appeared 
for the examination or be published on the web 
site www.results.exams.gov.lk
Note:  
issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he /she has 
requisite qualification to sit the examination.
13.  Identity of Candidates.– 
a candidate is required 
to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the chief Examiner for each subject he/she 
offers. any of the following documents shall be accepted.
 (a)  National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a valid passport.
14. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– if a 
candidate is found unqualified, his / her candidature is 
liable to be cancelled prior to the examinations, when 
holding the examination or subsequent to the examination 
or at any time thereafter. 
if it is found that a candidate has 
furnished information with knowledge that they are false, 
or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/
she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
15. 
commissioner General of Labour has the power to 
not to fill some or all the vacancies and to take decisions on 
any matter not stated in these regulations.
16. in the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English, copies of this notification, the Sinhala 
version shall prevail.
 o n the order of Public Service commission,
 commissioner General of Labour,
 department of Labour.
Labour Secretariat,
Narahenpita.
colombo -05.
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
  
   (For office use only)
limited competitive examination foR RecRuitment 
to the post of labouR officeR-ii in the depaRtment of 
labouR - 2016
01.  medium :
       Language medium in which Sit for the examination:
      Sinhala - 2       
 t amil    - 3
     English - 4 (Write the relevant number in the box)
 Application form should be filled in the language 
medium in which sit for the examination.
02.  Personal details :
         2.1.  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
           (in English capital letters) 
   eg.: (SiLVa a.b.d.P.a)
     2.2. Name in full  :––––––––––––.                                    
   (in English capital letters)
         2.3.  Name in full :––––––––––––.       
  (in Sinhala / tamil)
03.    3.1.  Official Address  :––––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters) (admission card will 
be posted to this address)
 3.2.  Official Address (In Sinhala /Tamil) :–––––––.
 3.3.  Personal address (in Sinhala / tamil) :––––––.  
    
04.  female / male  : 
 (male - 0, female - 1)
       Write the relevant number in the box                               
05. Nic No. :
                  
06. married / Unmarried  : 
 (Unmarried - 1, married -2)
       Write the relevant number in the box                          
     
07. Nationality  : 
 (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3, 
 m uslim - 4, other - 5)
    Write the relevant number in the box 
                                   
08.   8.1.  date of birth :
   
 
  y ear month date

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2738
        8.2.  a ge as at 14.12.2016   :             
   y ears months  days
09. telephone number  :
10. State the language medium in which you passed the 
Qualifying Examination / interview to enter the Post/ 
Service / Grade you are serving as at 14.12.2016 :          
––––––––––––.
11.  Have you completed all the qualifications stated under 
Para. 02 of the Gazette notification as at 14.12.2016  ? 
:––––––––––––.
12. Educational Qualifications:
 12.1.  degree :–––––––––––.
   12.2.  University / institution :–––––––––––.       
 12.3.  Result (if you have obtained a class, please state) 
:–––––––––––.
 12.4.  date of validity of degree :–––––––––––.
 12.5.  Language medium in which sit for the 
Examination :–––––––––––.
       12.6. date taken oaths as a Lawyer in Supreme court 
:–––––––––––.
               (Please state if applicable)
13.  Experience:
 13.1.  Please state the Services / Grades (a class, 
a Grade or a Segment, if any) which give you 
qualification for examination candidature :–––––
––––––.
      13.2.  Presently holding post :–––––––––––.
 13.3.  Whether that post belongs to Government 
Service or Provincial Government Service? :   
–––––––––––.   
   
 13.4.  Grade :–––––––––––.
      13.5.  class / Segment :–––––––––––.
      13.6.  date of appointment in the post :–––––––––––.
      13.7.  Date of Confirmation in the post :–––––––––––.
      13.8.  Salary code No. :–––––––––––.
      13.9.  Salary Scale :–––––––––––.
 13.10.  if several of service periods are applicable in 
order to be qualified to apply for the examination, 
please state the details on such active and 
satisfactory period of service in the chart below.
 
 Name of Salary Code   Date of Date of
 the Service/ as per the Appoint- Confirma- 
 Grade P . A. Circular ment tion
  (Eg. : MN-1-2006A)
1. .............. ............................ ............... ................
2. .............. ............................ ............... ................
3. .............. ............................ ............... ................
4. .............. ............................ ............... ................
 13.11.  t otal period of active and satisfactory service as 
at 14.12.2016   in a post approved in terms of 
the conditions stated in Para. 02 of the Gazette 
Notification................
14. Payment of Examination 
fee: 
     14.1. amount paid :––––––––––.
 14.2.  Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which the 
Examination fee paid :––––––––––.
     14.3.  date of payment :––––––––––.
     14.4.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Paste here the receipt firmly by one border of it. 
(Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful)
15. declaration of the candidate:
   i do hereby declare that i have earned all the 
increments during the period of five years immediately 
preceding 14.12.2016   and that 
i have completed an active 
and satisfactory period of service as per Para 2.1 of the 
Gazette Notification as at 14.12.2016   
and that i have not 
been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (other than 
warning) during that period. i agree to be bound by the 
rules and regulations of this examination . moreover, i do 
hereby declare that I am qualified to appear for the special 
Limited competitive Examination in terms of all the rules 
and regulations stated in the Gazette Notification and that 
all the particulars provided by me in this application are 
true to the best of my knowledge. 
i have pasted the cash 
receipt bearing the No. …………………………. and dated 
…………………………. which obtained for payment of 
examination fee. 
  i agree that if my candidature is cancelled prior to the 
examination, or subsequent to the examination due to the 
reason of revelation of my disqualification according to the 
Scheme of Recruitment which includes the provisions on 
this examination. 
further, i declare that i shall be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting of this examination.
    –––––––––––––––,
             Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
16. attestation of applicant’s signature : ( Para. 10(d) of 
the Gazette Notification) 
i hereby certify that mr. / mrs. / miss. ………………. 
(applicant’s full name) who submits this application is 
known to me personally, and that he/she paid the prescribed 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2739
examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on .............. 
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer          
 attesting the Signature.
date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the Signature :––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the official Stamp)
17.  Certificate of the Head of the Department: (Referring 
to personal file of the applicant)
i do hereby certify that mr. / mrs. / miss. …………….. 
who is submitting this application is serving in the post of 
……………………….in this ministry / department which 
is under the central Government / Provincial council. also, 
certify that he /she has earned all the increments during 
the period of five years immediately preceding 14.12.2016   
and that he / she has not been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment (other than warnings) during that period and 
that has completed an active and satisfactory period of 
service of ………………………… years (five / ten) as per 
Para. 2.1 of the Gazette Notification. I further certify that 
he / she is qualified to appear for the examination in terms 
of the regulations stated in the relevant Gazette Notification 
and that he / she placed his / her signature in my presence. 
He/she can/can not be released from the service if he/she is 
selected for this post.
 –––––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Head of the department / 
 Authorized Officer)
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Place Official Frank)
11–857/1
––––––––––––––––––
and the decision of the cabinet of ministers No. : 
wum/16/0473/712/005 and dated 26.07.2016  in order to 
fill 89 vacancies exist in the posts of Labour Officer – II in 
the department of Labour which comes under the ministry 
of Labour and trade Union Relations. the examination 
will be held in the examination centers in colombo only.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be 
made according to the merit order of the results of written 
examination and scrutinizing of qualifications by an 
interview.
02. Qualifications :
 2.1 Educational Qualifications :
 (a)  Having a degree obtained by a University 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission ; 
  or
 (b)  being a lawyer who has taken oaths in 
Supreme court.
  2.2 Physical Fitness .– Every candidate should be 
fit physically and mentally in every respect to 
serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform the 
duties in the post. 
 
  2.3 Other Qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should be of excellent character.
 (iii) All the necessary qualifications required 
for the post should have been fulfilled in 
every respect as at the date mentioned in the 
application calling notification.
03. Age Limit.– 
applicants should not be less than 21 
years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of 
applications. ( accordingly, persons whose birthday falls 
on or before 14.12.1995 and on or after 14.12.1981 shall 
be eligible to apply for this examination).
04. Terms of 
employment and Service Conditions: 
 (i) this post is permanent.
 (ii) the post is subject to a probation period of 03 
years.
 (iii) 1st Efficiency Bar should be passed as mentioned 
in the Scheme of Recruitment before lapse of 03 
years from the date of appointment.
 (iv) in terms of Public administration circular No. 
01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto, the 
prescribed proficiency level of other Official 
Language should be acquired within 05 years 
mINISTRy Of LAbOuR AND TRADE uNION 
RELATIONS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment  
to the Post of  Labour officer - II in the 
Department of Labour - 2016
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens 
who have fulfilled qualifications stated in Para. 02 as at the 
closing date of applications i.e. 14.12.2016 to be recruited 
on open basis according to the provisions in the Scheme of 
Recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission 

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2740
from the date of appointment. The officers 
who entered the service in a language medium 
which is not an official language should acquire 
prescribed official language proficiency within 
probation period.
 (v) Selected candidates will be appointed to the 
post of Labour Officer - Grade II subject to the 
general conditions governing the appointments 
in the public service. Procedural Rules of Public 
Service 
commission, financial Regulations, 
Provisions in the Establishments code and any 
amendments made or to be made hereafter and 
the terms and conditions set out in the Scheme 
of Recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission on 26.09.2013 and subject to any 
amendments made or to be made here after to the 
Scheme of Recruitment. 
 (vi) Selected candidates should serve in any part of 
the island in which they are called upon to serve.
 (vii) commissioner General of Labour has the power 
to cancel the appointment of an applicant who 
fails to assume duties on due date in the post 
offered, and/or who rejects or avoids assuming 
duties in the appointed post or appointed area.
05. Salary Scale.– 
the monthly salary scale applied to 
this post is Rs.34,605-10x660-11x755-15x930-Rs. 63,460/- 
(Salary code 
mN-05-2016 as per Public administration 
circular No.03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. Salary will be paid 
according to the Schedule ii of the said circular)
06. Written examination.– Written examination will 
consist of 02 question papers
    
 Question  Time Maximum Pass
 Paper  Marks Marks
01. Essay and Summary 03 hours 100 40
02. aptitude test 01 hours 100 40
the examination  will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil 
and English medium only. candidates are not allowed to 
change the medium later.
candidates should sit for all the question papers and 
only those who have obtained 40% or more marks for 
each paper will be called for the General interview. the 
number of candidates calling for the interview, the number 
of vacancies to be filled, and the effective date of the 
appointment will be decided by the 
commissioner General 
of Labour.
in the event of several candida tes obtaining the same 
marks, the decision shall be taken by the commissioner 
General of Labour according to the instructions of Public 
Service Commission, which shall be final.
07. The syllabus of the written examination is as follows:
 Name of the  Syllabus
 Question Paper
01. Essay and  this paper will be prepared   
   Summary with reference to important   
 Political, Economic, Social   
 changes take place locally and  
 internationally.
02. aptitude test this paper will be prepared to 
 test the candidates' language and 
 numerical abilities, logical  
 power and decision making 
 abilities.
08. Interview.– General interview will be held only to 
scrutinize qualifications and marks will not be given.
N.B.– appearing for the examination shall not be 
deemed as fulfillment of qualifications to be offered 
the appointment.
09. examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs. 1200/-. it 
should, before closing date of applications, be paid in cash 
to any Post Office / Sub Post Office in Sri Lanka under the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General 
of Examinations so as to be credited to the government 
revenue. 
the receipt obtained in favour of the candidate 
upon payment of examination fee should be pasted firmly 
on the specified place in the application by one border 
of it. 
money orders or stamps will not be accepted as 
examination fee. the examination fee once paid will not 
be refunded under any circumstances or it will not be 
transferred for any other examination. 
it will be useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt. 
10. Method of Application :
 (a) the application form should conform to the 
attached specimen application form and it 
should be prepared using both sides of an 
a4 
size paper in such a manner that item numbers 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2741
01-8.2 on the first page, 09-14 on the second 
page and remaining numbers on the third page. 
computerized / typed/ written application forms 
can be used for this purpose. the particulars in 
the application form should be filled clearly by 
the applicants’ own hand writing. the application 
forms which do not conform to the specimen 
application form and incomplete applications 
will be rejected without notice. 
it might be useful 
for the applicant to keep a photo copy of the 
application. 
the applicant should check whether 
the prepared application form conforms to the 
specimen application form indicated at the end 
of the notification and if it does not conform the 
application might be rejected.
 (b) The application form should be filled in the 
language in which the candidates wish to sit for 
the examination. 
if the application is prepared 
in Sinhala or tamil the name of the examination 
should be written in English in addition to 
Sinhala or 
tamil.
 (c) it should have been attested the signature of 
the candidate in the application and admission 
card. 
in the case the candidate who apply for the 
examination is from any institution he/she should 
get his/her signature attested by the head of the 
institution or by any other officer authorized 
by the head and in the case of other candidates 
should get his/her signature attested by a head of 
a Government School /retired officer, Grama 
Niladhari of the 
division, Justice of the Peace,  
commissioner of oaths,  attorney-at- Law , 
Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer of 
the army, Navy or 
air force, a permanent 
staff officer in public or provincial public 
service drawing a annual consolidated salary 
of Rs. 240,360/- or more, the incumbent of a 
buddhist Vihara, a Nayake buddhist monk, 
the incumbent of a place of worship of any 
other religion or religious dignitory of standing 
of any other religion.
 (d) the completed application form should be sent 
by registered post so as to reach the below 
mentioned address on or before 14.12.2016   
the term “ open competitive Examination 
for recruitment to the Post of Labour officer                     
- 
ii 2016” should be written at the top left hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is 
sent. any application received after the closing 
date will not be accepted.
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organizations and foreign Examinations branch,
  department of Examinations - Sri Lanka,
  P.o.box 1503, 
  c olombo.
 (e) any application which is not completed in 
every respect will be rejected. any complaint 
regarding the loss or delay of application will not 
be accepted.
 (f) department of Examinations, Sri Lanka will 
publish a notice in news papers after issuing 
admission cards. 
if admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of publishing 
such notice, you should notify to 
organizations 
and foreign Examinations branch of the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in the 
manner specified in the notice. When notify the 
name of the examination applied for, 
full Name, 
address and the National identity card number 
of the applicant should be mentioned. if you 
are an applican t outside colombo, you should 
notify the department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka by fax using the fax number mentioned 
in the notice, along with the above particulars 
and a letter of request furnishing a fax number 
to send you a copy of the admission card by fax. 
moreover, in the event of inquiring from the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, it would 
be more useful to keep in prepared the copies 
of the application form, receipt obtained for 
payment of examination fee and the registration 
receipt obtained for posting of application in 
order to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
11. Appearing For the examination :
 (a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all applicants 
who have correctly 
perfected their applications. 
a candidate who fails to produce any his / her 
admission card will not be permitted to sit for the 
examination.
 (b) a candidate must sit for the examination at his / her 
respective examination hall  under  the  relevant 
index number. Every candidate who sit for the 

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2742
examination should hand over their admission 
card with their signature certified, to the Chief 
Examiner on the first day of examination is held.
 
 
(c) candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in respect of holding 
the examination. if a candidate violates these 
rules and regulations he/she will be liable 
to a punishment imposed by the decision of 
the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
the decision of the commissioner General of 
Examinations shall be final in respect of holding 
of examination and issuing of results.
 (d) examination results.– the result sheet, including 
the names of the candidates who will secure 40% 
or more marks in the examination for each subject 
will be sent to the Public Service 
commission 
according to the notification of the Secretary of 
the Public Service commission.Results will be 
personally posted to every candidate appeared 
for the examination or be published on the web 
site www.results.exams.gov.lk
Note: 
issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not be necessarily mean that he/she has 
requisite qualification to sit the examination.
12. Identity of Candidates.– a candidate is required 
to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the chief Examiner for each subject he/she 
offers. any of the following documents shall be accepted :
 (a)  National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons,
 (b)   a valid Passport.
13. Penalty for Furnishing False Information. – if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature 
is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or 
after the examinations. 
if it is found that a candidate has 
furnished information with knowledge that they are false, 
or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact,               
he/she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
14. 
commissioner General of Labour has the power to 
not to fill some or all the vacancies and to take decisions on 
any matter not stated in these regulations.
  15. in the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English copies of this notification, the Sinhala 
version shall prevail.
 o n the order of Public Service commission,
 commissioner General of Labour,
 department of Labour.
Labour Secretariat,
Narahenpita.
colombo -05.
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN 
  
(For office use only)
open competitive examination foR RecRuitment to the 
post of labouR officeR -ii in the depaRtment of 
labouR - 2016
01.  medium :
       Language medium in which sit for the examination:
      Sinhala - 2       
 t amil    - 3
     English - 4 (Write the relevant number in the box)
 Application form should be filled in the language 
medium in which sit for the examination.
02.  Personal details :
         2.1.  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
           (in English capital letters) 
   eg.: (SiLVa a.b.d.P.a)
     2.2. Name in full  :––––––––––––.                                    
   (in English capital letters)
         2.3.  Name in full :––––––––––––.       
  (in Sinhala / tamil)
03.    3.1. Permanent address  :––––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters) (admission card will 
be posted to this address)
 3.2.  Permanent address (in Sinhala /tamil) :–––––.
 3.3.  Official Address (In Sinhala / Tamil) :––––––.  
    
04.  female / male  : 
 (male - 0, female - 1)
       Write the relevant number in the box                               

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2743
05. Nic No. :
                  
06. married / Unmarried  : 
 (Unmarried - 1, married -2)
       Write the relevant number in the box                          
     
07. Nationality  : 
 (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3, 
 m uslim - 4, other - 5)
    Write the relevant number in the box 
                                   
08.   8.1.  date of birth :
   
 
  y ear month date
        8.2.  age as at 14.12.2016 :     
   y ears  m onths   d ays
09. telephone number  :
10. Educational Qualifications :
 10.1.  degree :–––––––––––.
   10.2.  University / institution :–––––––––––.       
 10.3.  Result (if you have obtained a class, please state) 
:–––––––––––.
 10.4.  date of validity of degree :–––––––––––.
 10.5.  Language medium in which sit for the 
Examination :–––––––––––.
       10.6. date taken oaths as a Lawyer in Supreme court 
:–––––––––––.
               (Please state if applicable)
11.  Have you ever been convicted in a court of Law for a 
criminal offence ? (if yes, furnish particulars) :–––––.
12.  Have your previous Public Service ever been 
terminated ? :–––––––––––.
 i f so, please state the details and reasons for termination 
:–––––––––––.
13. Payment of Examination fee: 
     13.1. amount paid :––––––––––.
 13.2.  Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which the 
Examination fee paid :––––––––––.
     13.3.  date of payment :––––––––––.
     13.4.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Paste here the receipt firmly by one border of it.
(Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful)
14. Declaration of the candidate :
i, declare that the information given in this form is true 
to the best of my knowledge and belief and that i have 
affixed the receipt No. …………………………dated 
………….…………being the payment of the examination 
fee. i also agree to be bound by the rules governing the 
examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if 
it is found that 
i am ineligible according to the regulations 
of this examination. further, i agree to be bound by the 
rules and regulations imposed by commissioner General 
of Examinations as conducting and issuing results of the 
exam. 
 
  ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
15.  attestation of applicants’ signature: (Para 10(c) of the 
Gazette Notification):
i hereby certify that mr. /mrs. / miss. ……………….. 
(applicants’ full name) who submits this application is 
known to me personally, that he / she paid the prescribed 
examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein.          
He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on …………
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting 
 the Signature.
date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
16. Certificate of the Head of the Department (only for the 
applicants in Public Service / Provincial Public Service / 
Statutory 
institutions):
i hereby certify  that mr./mrs./miss. …………………
who is submitt ing this application is serving in this 
department as ……… ………… and his/her application 
is forwarded with my recommendation. He/she could 
be released from his/her present post, if selected for the 
position. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/ 
 Authorized Officer.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
11–857/2

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2744
mINISTRy Of LAbOuR AND TRADE uNION 
RELATIONS
Special Open Competitive Examination in 
Tamil medium for Recruitment to the Post of 
Labour officer - II in the Department of Labour 
for the Vacancies Existing in Northern and 
Eastern Provinces- 2016
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who 
have fulfilled qualifications stated in Para 02 as at the closing 
date of applications i.e. 14.12.2016   to be recruited through 
a  special competitive examination on open basis according 
to the provisions in the Scheme of Recruitment approved 
by the Public Service 
commission and the decision of the 
cabinet of ministers No : wum/16/0473/712/005 and dated 
26.07.2016  in order to fill 12 vacancies exist in the Posts 
of Labour Officer – II in the Department of Labour which 
comes under the 
ministry of Labour and trade Union 
Relations.the examination will be held in the examination 
centers in colombo only.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be 
made according to the merit order of the results of written 
examination and scrutinizing of qualifications by an 
interview.
02. Qualifications :
 2.1 Educational Qualifications :
 (a)  Having a degree obtained by a University 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission ; 
  or
 (b)  being a lawyer who has taken oaths in 
Supreme court.
  2.2 Physical Fitness .– Every candidate should be 
fit physically and mentally in every respect to 
serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform the 
duties in the post. 
 
  2.3 Other Qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should be of excellent character.
 (iii) All the necessary qualifications required 
for the post should have been fulfilled in 
every respect as at the date mentioned in the 
application calling notification.
03. Age Limit.– 
applicants should not be less than 21 
years and not more than 35 years as at the closing date of 
applications. ( accordingly, persons whose birthday falls 
on or before 14.12.1995 and on or after 14.12.1981  shall 
be eligible to apply for this examination.)
04. Terms of employment and Service Conditions: 
 (i) this post is permanent.
 (ii) the post is subject to a probation period of 03 
years.
 (iii) 1st Efficiency Bar should be passed as mentioned 
in the Scheme of Recruitment before lapse of 03 
years from the date of appointment.
 (iv) in terms of Public administration circular No: 
01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto, the 
prescribed proficiency level of other Official 
Language should be acquired within 05 years 
from the date of appointment.The officers 
who entered the service in a language medium 
which is not an official language should acquire 
prescribed official language proficiency within 
probation period.
 (v) Selected candidates will be appointed to the 
post of Labour Officer - Grade II subject to the 
general conditions governing the appointments 
in the public service. Procedural Rules of Public 
Service 
commission, financial Regulations, 
Provisions in the Establishments code and any 
amendments made or to be made hereafter and 
the terms and conditions set out in the Scheme 
of Recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission on 26.09.2013 and subject to any 
amendments made or to be made here after to the 
Scheme of  Recruitment.
 (vi) Selected candidates should serve at least 8 years 
compulsory service in Northern or Eastern 
Provinces.
 (vii) commissioner General of Labour has the power 
to cancel the appointment of an applicant who 
fails to assume duties on due date in the post 
offered, and/or who rejects or avoids assuming 
duties in the appointed post or appointed area.
05. Salary Scale.– 
the monthly salary scale applied to 
this post is Rs.34,605-10x660-11x755-15x930-Rs. 63,460/- 
(Salary code 
mN-05-2016 as per Public administration 
circular No.03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. Salary will be paid 
according to the schedule ii of the said circular)

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2745
06. Written examination.– Written Examination will 
consist of 02 question papers.
 Question  Time Maximum Pass
 Paper  Marks Marks
01. Essay and Summary 03 hours 100 40
02. aptitude test 01 hours 100 40
the examination will be conducted in tamil medium 
only. 
candidates should sit for all the question papers and 
only those who have obtained 40% or more marks for 
each paper will be called for the General interview. the 
number of candidates calling for the interview, the number 
of vacancies to be filled, and the effective date of the 
appointment will be decided by the 
commissioner General 
of Labour.
in the event of several candida tes obtaining the same 
marks, the decision shall be taken by the commissioner 
General of Labour according to the instructions of Public 
Service Commission, which shall be final.
07. the syllabus of the written examination is as follows:
 Name of the  Syllabus
 Question Paper
01. Essay and  this paper will be prepared   
   Summary with reference to important   
 Political, Economic, Social   
 changes take place locally and  
 internationally.
02. aptitude test this paper will be prepared to 
 test the candidates' language and 
 numerical abilities, logical  
 power and decision making 
 abilities.
08. Interview.– General interview will be held only to 
scrutinize qualifications and marks will not be given.
N.B.– appearing for the interview shall not be deemed 
as fulfillment of qualifications to be offered the 
appointment.
09. 
examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs: 1200. it 
should, before closing date of applications, be paid in cash 
to any Post Office / Sub Post Office in Sri Lanka under the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General 
of Examinations so as to be credited to the government 
revenue. the receipt obtained in favour of the candidate 
upon payment of examination fee should be pasted firmly 
on the specified place in the application by one border 
of it. 
money orders or stamps will not be accepted as 
examination fee. the examination fee once paid will not 
be refunded under any circumstances or it will not be 
transferred for any other examination. 
it will be useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt. 
10. Method of Application :
 (a) the application form should conform to the 
attached specimen application form and it should 
be prepared using both sides of an 
a4 size paper 
in such a manner that item numbers 01-8.2 on the 
first page, 09-14 on the second page and remaining 
numbers on the third page. 
computerized / typed/ 
written application forms can be used for this 
purpose. 
the particulars in the application form 
should be filled clearly by the applicants’ own 
hand writing. 
the application forms which do not 
conform to the specimen application form and 
incomplete applications will be rejected without 
notice. 
it might be useful for the applicant to keep 
a photo copy of the application. the applicant 
should check whether the prepared application 
form conforms to the specimen application form 
indicated at the end of the notification and if it does 
not conform the application might be rejected.
 (b) The application form should be filled in the 
language in which the candidates wish to sit for 
the examination. When preparing the application 
the name of the examination should be written in 
English in addition to 
tamil.
 (c) it should have been attested the signature of the 
candidate in the application and admission card. in 
the case the candidate who apply for the examination 
is from any institution he/she should get his/her 
signature attested by the head of the institution or by 
any other officer authorized by the head and in the 
case of other candidates should get his/her signature 
attested by a head of a Government School /retired 
officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of 
the Peace, 
commissioner of oaths,  attorney-at- 
Law, Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer of the 
army, Navy or Air Force, a permanent staff officer in 
public or provincial public service drawing a annual 
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360/- or more, the 
incumbent of a 
buddhist Vihara, a Nayake buddhist 
monk, the incumbent of a place of worship of any 
other religion or religious dignitory of standing of 
any other religion.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2746
 (d) t he completed application form should be sent by 
registered post so as to reach the below mentioned 
address on or before 14.12.2016   the term “Special 
open competitive Examination in tamil medium 
for Recruitment to the post of Labour officer - II 
in the department of Labour for the vacancies 
Excesisting in Northern and Eastern Provinces- 
2016” should be written at the top left hand corner 
of the envelope in which the application is sent. 
any application received after the closing date will 
not be accepted.
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organizations and foreign Examinations branch,
  department of Examinations - Sri Lanka,
  P.o.box 1503, 
  c olombo.
 (e) any application which is not completed in every 
respect will be rejected. any complaint regarding 
the loss or delay of application will not be accepted.
 (f) department of Examinations, Sri Lanka will publish 
a notice in news papers after issuing admission 
cards. 
if admission card is not received even after 
2 or 3 days of publishing such notice, you should 
notify to organizations and foreign Examinations 
branch of the department of Examinations" Sri 
Lanka in the manner specified in the notice. When 
notify the name of the examination applied for, 
full Name, address and the National identity card  
number of the applicant should be mentioned. 
if you are an applicant outside colombo, you 
should notify the department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka by fax using the fax number mentioned in 
the notice, along with the above particulars and a 
letter of request furnishing a fax number to send 
you a copy of the admission card by fax. 
moreover, 
in the event of inquiring from the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, it would be more useful 
to keep in prepared the copies of the application 
form, receipt obtained for payment of examination 
fee and the registration receipt obtained for posting 
of application in order to prove any information 
requested by the 
department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka.
11. Appearing For the examination :
 (a) the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue admission cards to all applicants who have 
correctly perfected their applications. a candidate 
who fails to produce any his / her admission card 
will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
 (b) a  candidate must sit for the examination at his / 
her respective examination hall under the relevant 
index number. Every candidate who sit for the 
examination should hand over their admission card 
with their signature certified, to the Chief Examiner 
on the first day of examination is held.
 (c) candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in respect of holding the examination. 
if a candidate violates these rules and regulations 
he / she will be liable to a punishment imposed 
by the decision of the 
commissioner General of 
Examinations. the decision of the commissioner 
General of Examinations shall be final in respect of 
holding of examination and issuing of results.
 (d) examination Results. – the result sheet, including 
the names of the candidates who will secure 40% 
or more marks in the examination for each subject 
will be sent to the Public Service 
commission 
according to the notification of the Secretary of 
the Public Service commission.Results will be 
personally posted to every candidate appeared for 
the examination or be published on the web site 
www.results.exams.gov.lk
Note: 
issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not be necessarily mean that he /she has  requisite 
qualification to sit the examination.
12. Identity of Candidates.– 
a candidate is required 
to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the 
chief Examiner for each subject he/she 
offers. any of the following documents shall be accepted.
 
 (a)  National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (b)   a valid Passport.
13. Penalty for Furnishing False Information. – if a 
candidate is found to be ineligible, his / her candidature 
is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or 
after the examinations. 
if it is found that a candidate has 
furnished information with knowledge that they are false, 
or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/
she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
14. 
commissioner General of Labour has the power to 
not to fill some or all the vacancies and to take decisions on 
any matter not stated in these regulations.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2747
 15. in the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English copies of this notification, the Sinhala 
version shall prevail.
 o n the order of Public Service commission,
 commissioner General of Labour,
 department of Labour.
Labour Secretariat,
Narahenpita.
colombo - 05.
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN 
  
(For office use only)
special open competitive examination in tamil medium 
foR RecRuitment to the post of labouR officeR -ii in the 
depaRtment of labouR foR the vacancies existing in 
noRtheRn and easteRn pRovinces - 2016
01.  medium :
       Language medium in which Sit for the examination:
     
 t amil    - 3 (Write the relevant number in the box)
 a pplication form should be filled in the language 
medium in which sit for the examination.
02.  Personal details :
         2.1.  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
           (in English capital letters) 
   eg.: (SiLVa  a. N. S. P. t.)
     2.2. Name in full  :––––––––––––.                                    
   (in English capital letters)
         2.3.  Name in full :––––––––––––.       
  (in tamil)
03. Nic No. :
04.  female / male  : 
 (male - 0, female - 1)
       Write the relevant number in the box              
05.    5.1. Permanent address  :––––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters) (admission card will 
be posted to this address) :––––––––––––.
 5.2.  Permanent address (in tamil) :–––––––––.
 5.3.  Official Address (In English capital letters)              
:––––––––––––.     
 
06. married / Unmarried  : 
 (Unmarried - 1, married -2)
       (Write the relevant number in the box)                          
     
07. Nationality  : 
 (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3, 
 m uslim - 4, other - 5)
    (Write the relevant number in the box) 
                                   
08. 8.1. date of birth :
   
 
  y ear : month : date :
      8.2. age as at 14.12.2016      
   years : months :  days :
09. telephone number  :
10. Educational Qualifications:
 10.1.  degree :–––––––––––.
   10.2.  University / institution :–––––––––––.       
 10.3.  Result (if you have obtained a class, please state) 
:–––––––––––.
 10.4.  date of validity of degree :–––––––––––.
 10.5.  Language medium in which sit for the 
Examination :–––––––––––.
       10.6. date taken oaths as a Lawyer in Supreme court 
:–––––––––––.
               (Please state if applicable)
11.  Have you ever been convicted in a court of Law for a 
criminal offence ? (if yes, furnish particulars) :–––––.
12.  Have your previous Public Service ever been 
terminated ? :–––––––––––.
 i f so, please state the details and reasons for termination 
:–––––––––––.
13. Payment of Examination fee: 
     13.1. amount paid :––––––––––.
 13.2.  Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which the 
Examination fee paid :––––––––––.
     13.3.  date of payment :––––––––––.
     13.4.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Paste here the receipt firmly by one boarder of it, 
(Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful)

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2748
14. Declaration of the candidate :
i, declare that the information given in this form is true 
to the best of my knowledge and belief and that i have 
affixed the receipt No. …………………………dated 
………….…………being the payment of the examination 
fee. i also agree to be bound by the rules governing the 
examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if 
it is found that 
i am ineligible according to the regulations 
of this examination. further, i agree to be bound by the 
rules and regulations imposed by commissioner General 
of Examinations as conducting and issuing results of the 
exam. 
 
  ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
15.  attestation of applicants’ signature: (Para 10(c) of the 
Gazette Notification):
i hereby certify that mr. /mrs. / miss. ……………….. 
(applicants’ full name) who submits this application is 
known to me personally, that he / she paid the prescribed 
examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/ 
She placed his/her signature in my presence on …………
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting 
 the Signature.
date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting the signature :––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
16. Certificate of the Head of the Department (only for 
the applicants in Public Service / Provincial Public 
Service / Statutory 
institutions):
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss………… …………
who is submitt ing this application is serving in this 
department as ……… ………… and his/her application 
is forwarded with my recommendation. He/she could 
be released from his/her present post, if selected for the 
position. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/ 
 Authorized Officer.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
11–857/3
mINISTRy Of LAbOuR AND TRADE uNION 
RELATIONS
Special Limited Competitive Examination in 
Tamil medium for Recruitment to the post of 
Labour officer - II in the Department of Labour 
for the vacancies Existing
in Northern and Eastern Provinces- 2016
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens 
who have fulfilled qualifications stated in Para 02 as 
at the closing date of applications i.e. 14.12.2016  to be 
recruited through a special competitive examination 
on Limited basis, according to the provisions in the 
Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission and the decision of the cabinet of ministers 
No. : wum/16/0473/712/005 and dated 26.07.2016 in order 
to fill 12 vacancies exist in the posts of Labour Officer- II 
exist in Northern and Eastern Provinces in the 
department 
of Labour which comes under the ministry of Labour and 
trade Union Relations. the examination will be held in the 
examination centers in colombo only.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be 
made according to the merit order of the results of written 
examination and scrutinizing of qualifications by an 
interview.
02. Qualifications:
 2.1:  Educational Qualifications / Professional 
Qualifications / Experience:
 (a)  Having a degree obtained by a University 
recognized by the University Grants 
commission or being a Lawyer who has 
taken oaths in Supreme court and having 
completed an active and satisfactory 
period of service of not less than five (05) 
years in a permanent and pensionable 
post which carries a salary scale 
mN-1-
2006-a or above in Public / Provincial 
Public Service. 
  or
 (b)  Having completed an active and 
satisfactory period of service of not 
less than ten (10) years in a permanent 
and pensionable post which carries a 
salary scale 
mN-1-2006-a or above in 
Public / Provincial Public Service as at 
the date stated in the application calling 
notification.
 
 2.2:  Physical Fitness:
  Every candidate should be fit physically and 
mentally in every respect to serve in any part 
of Sri Lanka and to perform the duties in the 
post. 

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2749
 2.3:  Other Qualifications:
 (i) appointment should have been 
confirmed.
 (ii) Should have a satisfactory period of 
service during the period of five years 
(05) immediately preceding the date that 
the qualifications have been fulfilled.
 (iii) Should have earned all the increments 
during the 05 years immediately 
preceding 
the date that the qualifications 
have been fulfilled.
 (iv) Should have not been subjected to any 
disciplinary punishment other than 
warnings during immediately preceding 
five years.
 (v) All the necessary qualifications required 
for the post should have been fulfilled in 
every respect as at the date mentioned in 
the application calling notification.
03. Age Limit.– Not relevant.
04. Terms of 
employment and Service Conditions : 
 (i) this post is permanent.
 (ii) the post is subject to an acting period of one 
year.
 (iii) 1st Efficiency Bar should be passed as 
mentioned in the Scheme of Recruitment 
before lapse of 03 years from the date of 
appointment.
 (iv) in terms of Public administration circular 
No: 01/2014 and the circulars incidental 
thereto, 
the prescribed Proficiency of the 
Official Language should be acquired within 
05 years from the date of appointment.
 (v) Selected candidates will be appointed to the 
post of Labour Officer - Grade II subject to the 
general conditions governing the appointments 
in the  Public Service, Procedural Rules of Public 
Service 
commission, financial Regulations, 
Provisions in the Establishments code and any 
amendments made or to be made hereafter and 
the terms and conditions set out in the Scheme 
of Recruitment approved by the Public Service 
commission on 26.09.2013 and subject to any 
amendments made or to be made here after to 
the Scheme of Recruitment. 
 (vi) Selected candidates should serve at least 
8 years compulsory service in Northern or 
Eastern provinces.
 (vii) commissioner General of Labour has the 
power to cancel the appointment of an 
applicant who fails to assume duties on due 
date in the post offered, and/or who rejects or 
avoids assuming duties in the appointed post 
or appointed area.
05. Salary Scale.– 
the monthly salary scale applied to 
this post is Rs.34,605-10x660-11x755-15x930-Rs. 63,460/- 
(Salary code mN-05-2016 as per Public administration 
circular No.03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. Salary will be paid 
according to the Schedule ii of said circular.)
06. Written examination.– Written examination will 
consist of 02 question papers.    
 Question  Time Maximum Pass
 Paper  Marks Marks
01. Labour Laws 03 hours 100 40
02. case Study 03 hours 100 40
the examination will be conducted in tamil medium 
only. 
candidates should sit for all the question papers and 
only those who have obtained 40% or more marks for 
each paper will be called for the General 
interview. the 
number of candidates calling for the interview, the number 
of vacancies to be filled, and the effective date of the 
appointment will be decided by the 
commissioner General 
of Labour.
in the event of several candida tes obtaining the same 
marks, the decision shall be taken by the commissioner 
General of Labour according to the instructions of Public 
Service Commission, which shall be final.
07. the syllabus of the written examination is as follows:
 Name of the  Syllabus
 Question Paper
 01. Labour Laws the question paper will be based 
on the below mentioned acts and 
ordinances.
 (i) Wages boards ordinance 
No: 27 of 1941.
 (ii) Shop and Office Employees 
(Regulation of Employment 
and Remuneration) 
act, No. 
19 of 1954.
 

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2750
10. Method of Application :
 (a) the application form should conform to the 
attached specimen application form and it 
should be prepared using both sides of a a4 
size paper in such a manner that item numbers 
01-8.2 on the first page, 9-13.10 on the second 
page, 13.11-15 on the third page and remaining 
numbers on the fourth page. 
computerized/ 
typed/ W ritten application forms can be 
used for this purpose. the particulars in the 
application form should be filled clearly by the 
applicants own hand writing. 
the application 
forms which do not conform to the specimen 
application form and incomplete applications 
will be rejected without notice. 
it might be 
useful for the applicant to keep a photo copy 
of the application. 
the applicant should 
check whether the prepared application form 
conforms to the specimen application form 
indicated at the end of the notification and if 
it does not conform the application might be 
rejected.
 (b) The application form should be filled in the 
language in which the candidates wish to 
sit for the examination. When preparing the 
application the name of the examination should 
be written in English in addition to 
tamil. 
 (c) Post held by the applicant and his/her 
work place at the time of applying for the 
examination will be applicable in respect of all 
the matters relevant to the examination and any 
change taking place in that regard after sending 
applications will not be considered.
 (d) candidate should get his/her signature attested 
by the head of the department or by an officer 
authorized by the head.
 (e) the completed application form should be 
sent through the Head of  the department 
by registered post so as to reach the below 
mentioned address on or before 14.12.2016 the 
term “Special Limited competitive Examination 
in tamil medium for Recruitment to the post of 
Labour Officer - II in the Department of Labour 
for the vacancies Existing in Northern and Eastern 
Provinces- 2016” should be written at the top 
left hand corner of the envelope in which the 
 (iii) industrial disputes act,    
No. 43 of 1950.
 (iv) Employees Provident fund 
act, No. 15 of 1958.
 (v) termination of Employment 
of Workmen (Special 
Provisions) act, No. 45 of 
1971.
 (vi) Payment of Gratuity act,  
No. 12 of 1983.
 (vii) trade Unions ordinance No. 
14 of 1935.
 (viii) Employment of Women, 
young Persons and children 
act, No. 47 of 1956.
 (ix) Maternity Benefits  Ordinance
  No. 32 of 1939.
 (x) factories ordinance  
  No. 45of 1942
this question paper is designed to 
test the creative thinking ability 
and problem solving ability of 
a candidate. 
for this purpose, 
problems created by combining one 
or more situations will be presented 
to the candidate to be answered.
08. interview.– General interview will be held only to 
scrutinize qualifications and marks will not be given.
N.B.– appearing for the interview shall not be 
deemed as fulfillment of qualifications to be 
offered the appointment.
09. examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs: 1200/-. it 
should, before closing date of applications, be paid in cash 
to any Post Office / Sub Post Office in Sri Lanka under the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General 
of Examinations so as to be credited to the government 
revenue. 
the receipt obtained in favour of the candidate 
upon payment of examination fee should be pasted firmly 
on the specified place in the application by one border 
of it. 
money orders or stamps will not be accepted as 
examination fee. the examination fee once paid will not 
be refunded under any circumstances or it will not be 
transferred for any other examination. 
it will be useful to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt. 
 Name of the  Syllabus
 Question Paper
02. case Study

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2751
application is sent.  any applic ation received 
after the closing date will not be accepted.     
       
  commissioner General of Examinations, 
  organizations and foreign Examination  
   b ranch, 
  department of Examinations - Sri Lanka,
  P.o box 1503,
  c olombo.
 (f) any application which is not completed in 
every respect will be rejected. any complaint 
regarding the loss or delay of application will 
not be accepted.
11. department of Examinations, Sri Lanka will publish 
a notice in news papers after issuing admission cards. if 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
publishing such notice, you should notify to organizations 
and foreign Examinations branch of the department of 
Examinations" Sri Lanka in the manner specified in the 
notice. When notify the name of the examination applied 
for, 
full Name, address and the National identity card 
number of the applicant should be mentioned. if you 
are an applicant outside colombo, you should notify the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka by fax using 
the fax number mentioned in the notice, along with the 
above particulars and a letter of request furnishing a fax 
number to send you a copy of the admission card by fax. 
moreover, in the event of inquiring from the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, it would be more useful to keep in 
prepared the copies of the application form, receipt obtained 
for payment of Examination fee and the registration receipt 
obtained for posting of application in order to prove any 
information requested by the 
department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka.
12. Appearing For the examination :
 (a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue admi ssion cards to all applicants 
who have correctly perfected their application. 
a candidate who fails to produce any his / her 
admission card will not be permitted to sit for 
the examination.
 (b) a candidate must sit for the examination at 
his / her respective examination hall under the 
relevant index number. Every candidate who 
sit for the examination should hand over their 
admission card with their signature certified, 
to the Chief Examiner on the first day of 
examination is held.
 (c) candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in respect of holding 
the examination. if a candidate violates these 
rules and regulations he / she will be liable 
to a punishment imposed by the decision of 
the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
the decision of the commissioner General 
of Examinations shall be final in respect of 
holding of examination and issuing of results.
 (d) examination Results :
  the result sheet, including the names of the 
candidates who will secure 40% or more 
marks in the examination for each subject 
will be sent to the Public Service 
commission 
according to the notification of the Secretary 
of the Public Service commission.Results 
will be personally posted to every candidate 
appeared for the examination or be published 
on the web site www.results.exams.gov.lk
Note:  
issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he /she has 
requisite qualification to sit the examination.
13. Identity of Candidates.– 
a candidate is required 
to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the 
chief Examiner for each subject he/she 
offers. any of the following documents shall be accepted.
 (a)  National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a valid passport.
14. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– if a 
candidate is found unqualified, his / her candidature is 
liable to be cancelled prior to the examinations, when 
holding the examination or subsequent to the examination 
or at any time thereafter. 
if it is found that a candidate has 
furnished information with knowledge that they are false, 
or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/
she shall be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
15. 
commissioner General of Labour has the power to 
not to fill some or all the vacancies and to take decisions on 
any matter not stated in these regulations.
16. in the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English, copies of this notification, the Sinhala 
version shall prevail.
on the order of Public Service commission,
 commissioner General of Labour.
 department of Labour.
Labour Secretariat,
Narahenpita,
colombo 05.

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2752
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN 
  
(For office use only)
special limited competitive examination in tamil 
medium foR RecRuitment to the post of labouR 
officeR -ii in the depaRtment of labouR foR the 
vacancies existing in noRtheRn and easteRn 
pRovinces - 2016
01.  medium :
       Language medium in which Sit for the examination:
      
 tamil    - 3 (Write the relevant number in the box)
 Application form should be filled in the language 
medium in which sit for the examination.
02.  Personal details :
         2.1.  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
           (in English capital letters) 
   eg.: (SiLVa a.b.N.P.R.)
     2.2. Name in full  :––––––––––––.                                    
   (in English capital letters)
         2.3.  Name in full :––––––––––––.       
  (in tamil)
03. Nic No. :
04.  female / male  : 
 (male - 0, female - 1)
       Write the relevant number in the box              
05.    5.1. Official Address  :––––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters) (admission card will 
be posted to this address)
 5.2.  Official Address (In Tamil) :–––––––––––.
 5.3.  Personal address (in tamil) :––––––––––––.  
    
06. married / Unmarried  : 
 (Unmarried - 1, married -2)
       Write the relevant number in the box                          
     
07. Nationality  : 
 (Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3, 
 m uslim - 4, other - 5)
    Write the relevant number in the box 
                                   
08.   8.1.  date of birth :
   
   y ear month date
        8.2.  age as at 14.12.2016 :     
   y ears  m onths   d ays
09. telephone number  :
10. State the language medium  in which you passed the 
Qualifying Examination / interview to enter the Post 
/ Service / Grade you are serving as at 14.12.2016 
:––––––––––––.
11.  Have you completed all the qualifications stated under 
Para 02 of the Gazette notification as at 14.12.2016  ? 
:––––––––––––.
12. Educational Qualifications:
 12.1.  degree :–––––––––––.
   12.2.  University / institution :–––––––––––.       
 12.3.  Result (if you have obtained a class, please state) 
:–––––––––––.
 12.4.  date of validity of degree :–––––––––––.
 12.5.  Language medium in which sit for the 
Examination :–––––––––––.
       12.6. date taken oaths as a Lawyer in Supreme court 
:–––––––––––.
               (Please state if applicable)
13.  Experience:
 13.1.  Please state the Services / Grades (a class, 
a Grade or a Segment, if any) which give you 
qualification for examination candidature :–––––
––––––.
      13.2.  Presently holding post :–––––––––––.
 13.3.  Whether that post belongs to Government 
Service or Provincial Government Service? :   
–––––––––––.   
   
 13.4.  Grade :–––––––––––.
      13.5.  class / Segment :–––––––––––.
      13.6.  date of appointment in the post :–––––––––––.
      13.7.  Date of Confirmation in the post :–––––––––––.
      13.8.  Salary code No. :–––––––––––.
      13.9.  Salary Scale :–––––––––––.
 13.10.  if several of service periods are applicable in 
order to be qualified to apply for the examination, 

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2016
2753
08.   8.1.  date of birth :
   
   y ear month date
        8.2.  age as at 14.12.2016 :     
   y ears  months   days
09. telephone number  :
10. State the language medium in which you passed the 
Qualifying Examination / interview to enter the Post 
/ Service / Grade you are serving as at 14.12.2016 
:––––––––––––.
11.  Have you completed all the qualifications stated under 
Para 02 of the Gazette notification as at 14.12.2016  ? 
:––––––––––––.
12. Educational Qualifications:
 12.1.  degree :–––––––––––.
   12.2.  University / institution :–––––––––––.       
 12.3.  Result (if you have obtained a class, please state) 
:–––––––––––.
 12.4.  date of validity of degree :–––––––––––.
 12.5.  Language medium in which sit for the 
Examination :–––––––––––.
       12.6. date taken oaths as a Lawyer in Supreme court 
:–––––––––––.
               (Please state if applicable)
13.  Experience:
 13.1.  Please state the Services / Grades (a class, 
a Grade or a Segment, if any) which give you 
qualification for examination candidature :–––––
––––––.
      13.2.  Presently holding post :–––––––––––.
 13.3.  Whether that post belongs to Government 
Service or Provincial Government Service? :   
–––––––––––.      
 13.4.  Grade :–––––––––––.
      13.5.  class / Segment :–––––––––––.
      13.6.  date of appointment in the post :–––––––––––.
      13.7.  Date of Confirmation in the post :–––––––––––.
      13.8.  Salary code No. :–––––––––––.
      13.9.  Salary Scale :–––––––––––.
 13.10.  if several of service periods are applicable in 
order to be qualified to apply for the examination, 
please state the details on such active and 
satisfactory period of service in the chart below.
 
 Name of Salary Code   Date of Date of
 the Service/ as per the Appoint- Confirma- 
 Grade P . A. Circular ment tion
  (Eg. : MN-1-2006A)
1. .............. ............................ ............... ................
2. .............. ............................ ............... ................
3. .............. ............................ ............... ................
4. .............. ............................ ............... ................
 13.11.  total period of active and satisfactory service as 
at 14.12.2016   in a post approved in terms of 
the conditions stated in Para 02 of the Gazette 
notification :––––––––––.
14. Payment of Examination 
fee: 
     14.1. amount paid :––––––––––.
 14.2.  Post Office/ Sub Post Office to which the 
Examination fee paid :––––––––––.
     14.3.  date of payment :––––––––––.
     14.4.  Receipt No. :––––––––––.
Paste here the receipt firmly by one border of it, 
(Keeping a photocopy of the receipt will be useful)
15. Declaration of the candidate :
   i do hereby declare that i have earned all the 
increments during the period of five years immediately 
preceding 14.12.2016   and that i have completed an active 
and satisfactory period of service as per Para 2.1 of the 
Gazette Notification as at 14.12.2016   And that I have not 
been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (
other than 
warning) during that period. i agree to be bound by the 
rules and regula tions of this examination . moreover, i do 
hereby declare that I am qualified to appear for the special 
Limited competitive Examination in terms of all the rules 
and regulations stated in the Gazette  Notification and that 
all the particulars provided by me in this application are 
true to the best of my knowledge. 
i have pasted the cash 
receipt bearing the No …………………………. and dated 
…………………………. which obtained for payment of 
examination fee. 
  i agree that if my candidature is cancelled prior to the 
examination, or subsequent to the examination due to the 
reason of revelation of my disqualification according to the 
Scheme of Recruitment which includes the provisions on 
this examination. 
further, i declare that i shall be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting of this examination.
    –––––––––––––––,
             Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
16. attestation of applicant’s signature : ( Para 10(d) of the 
Gazette Notification) 
i hereby certify that mr. / mrs. / miss. ………………. 
(applicant’s full name) who submits this application is 
known to me personally, and that he/she paid the prescribed 
examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on .............. 
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer          
 attesting the Signature.
date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the Signature :––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the official Stamp)
17.  Certificate of the Head of the Department: (Referring 
to personal file of the applicant)
i do hereby certify that mr. / mrs. / miss. …………….. 
who is submitting this application is serving in the post of 
……………………….in this 
ministry / department which 
is under the central Government / Provincial council. also, 
certify that he /she has earned all the increments during 
the period of five years immediately preceding 14.12.2016   
and that he / she has not been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment (other than warnings) during that period and 
that has completed an active and satisfactory period of 
service of ………………………… years (five / ten) as per 
Para 2.1 of the Gazette Notification. I further certify that he 
/ she is qualified to appear for the examination in terms of 
the regulations stated in the relevant Gazette Notification 
and that he / she placed his / her signature in my presence. 
He/she can/can not be released from the service if he/she is 
selected for this post.
 –––––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Head of the department / 
 Authorized Officer)
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
(Place Official Frank)
11–857/4
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.