

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.04.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1912$2 - 2015 wfm%a,a ui 27 jeks i÷od - 2015'04'27
No. 1912/2  - MONDAY, APRIL  27,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L.D.B. 5/2011.
THE  NATIONAL  THOROUGHFARES  ACT,  No.  40  OF  2008
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Highways and Investment Promotion under section 89(2)(c) of the Thoroughfares
Act, No. 40 of 2008 read with sections 13 and 14 of the aforesaid Act.
KABIR HASHIM,
Minister of Highways and
Investment Promotion
Colombo,
27th April, 2015.
Regulations
1.   These Regulations may be cited as the National Thoroughfares (Colombo-Katunayake User Fee National Highway)
Regulations No. 1 of 2015.
2.   These regulations shall apply to the “Colombo-Katunayake User Fee National Highway” declared by Order made
under section 11 of the National Thoroughfares Act, No. 40 of 2008 published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1831/31 of
October 12, 2013.
3. (1) There shall be levied from a driver of every vehicle being used on the aforesaid User Fee National Highway,
a user fee in respect of the use of such User Fee National Highway by such driver, at such rates specified in
Part A of the Schedule to these regulations.
3 -  PG 2444
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.04.2015
2A
(2) The user fee shall be charged in respect of the whole distance, or part thereof, of the User Fee National
Highway.
(3) Different user fees may apply for different categories of vehicles.
(4) The user fee referred to in paragraph (1) shall be paid-
(a)manually by cash; or
 (b)electronically through a device (hereinafter referred as “E-tag”) attached to the vehicle.
4.  (1) An owner or driver of a vehicle who is desirous of making payments electronically (hereinafter referred as “E-
tag user”) shall register with the Road Development Authority, established under the Road Development
Authority Act, No. 73 of 1981, (hereinafter referred to as “the Authority”) and shall be required to open an
Electronic Toll Collection System User Fee Account (hereinafter referred to as the “ETCS Account”) at the
Customer Service Centre of the Authority.
 (2) Every application for registration as an E-tag user, shall be made to the Customer Service Centre of the
Authority.
(3) Upon receipt of an application for registration the Authority may, on being satisfied with the information
provided in the application including the information relating to the ETCS account, register such person as an
E-tag user and issue him an E-tag for the purposes of these regulations.
(4)  Every E-tag user shall enter into an Electronic Toll Collection System User Fee customer agreement (hereinafter
referred to as the “ETCS customer agreement”) subject to the terms and conditions specified in such agreement.
 (5)  Every E-tag issued shall be fitted on to the windscreen of the vehicle.
 (6) It shall be the duty of every E-tag user to maintain a sufficient credit balance in the ETCS Account at all times
when using an Electronic user fee collection lane (hereinafter referred to as the “ETC lane”) enabling such
person to make the payment of such user fee.
 (7) In case of insufficient credit, the E-tag user may top-up the ETCS account and the processing time of such
top-up shall be not less than one hour before the E-tag user may be able to use ETC lane.
                (8) Every E-tag user shall ensure that the E-tag is in proper working order and shall inform the Authority of a ny
damage or loss to such E-tag.
5. (1) Where an E-tag user with sufficient credit to pay the user fee, enters the User Fee National Highway from an
interchange other than from a designated location, such E-tag user shall be permitted to proceed along the
ETC lane of such interchange.
 (2) Where a vehicle fitted with an E-tag is being used on an ETC lane, the user fee shall be debited against the
ETCS Account automatically and the E-tag user may obtain a statement in relation to the usage of such
account from the Customer Care Centre of the Authority.
(3) Where an E-tag user, does not have sufficient credit to pay the user fee,  such  E-tag user shall divert his
vehicle from the ETC lane  to the manual user fee  collection lane (hereinafter referred to as the “MUC lane”).
The provisions of regulation 6 shall apply in relation to the payment of such fees.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.04.2015
3A
6. (1) Where a driver of a vehicle which is not fitted with an E-tag enters the User Fee National Highway from an
interchange other than from a designated location prior to being permitted to proceed along MUC lane, shall,
obtain a ticket from the Teller on duty, manning the paying station  at the gates of such interchange.
               (2) The driver of a vehicle referred to in paragraph (1) of this regulation, when arriving at a paying station o f an
interchange or a designated location for the purpose of exiting such User Fee National Highway shall-
(i) surrender the ticket obtained at the interchange through which he entered the User Fee National
Highway, to the Teller at MUC lane ; or
(ii) inform the Teller at the designated location through which he entered the User Fee National Highway.
 (3) For vehicles using MUC lane, the Teller shall inform the driver of the amount of the fee payable and accordingly
the driver shall pay such amount, prior to being permitted to pass through such interchange or designated
location, and the teller shall issue a receipt in respect of such payment.
7. (1) A driver who has obtained a ticket referred to in Regulation 6 (1) shall be required to keep such ticket securely
in his possession until he reaches the paying station of  the interchange or the designated location through
which he intends to exit such User Fee National Highway.
(2) Where the driver is unable to-
(a) surrender the ticket; or
(b) fails to identify the location through which he entered the User Fee National Highway,
the driver shall be deemed to have travelled the entire distance of the User Fee National Highway and shall
accordingly be charged for the entire distance of the  User Fee National Highway.
8. (1) The Authority shall ensure that, for the purpose of implementation of the provisions of these regulations, a
sufficient number of gates are positioned at the required places along the User Fee National Highway.
(2) The gates so positioned along the User Fee National Highway shall be owned operated and maintained by
the Authority, and each gate shall be manned by a Teller.
(3) The Teller  on the MUC lanes shall be responsible for the collection of the user fee at every gate referred to in
paragraph (2), in such sum as is specified in Part A of the Schedule to these regulations from every driver using
such User Fee National Highway:
Provided that the provisions of these regulations shall not apply to a driver who is driving a vehicle of a
category specified in Part B of the Schedule to these regulations, which is exempt from such payment.
9. The Teller shall at such times as are specified, hand over the day’s collection of the fees to the officer authorized in
that behalf by the Authority and obtain a receipt in respect of such amount.
10.  The money so collected as user fees shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority and be used for the purpose of
developing and maintaining the User Fee National Highway to which these regulations apply.
11. The driver of a vehicle who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall commit an offence and shall on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate be liable in the case of-
(a) a first offence, to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees; and
(b) a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.04.2015
4A
12.  For the purpose of these regulations-
 “Designated location” means  an authorized access point, where a driver of a vehicle is permitted to enter the
User Fee National Highway without obtaining a ticket and includes New Kelaniya Interchange,
Peliyagoda interchange, Katunayake interchange and Katunayake (25.80Km).
“E-tag” means an electronic device that is permanently installed on the windscreen of the vehicle for the
purpose of payment of user fee electronically when passing through an Electronic User fee lane.
“Teller” means an officer who is manning the gates at an interchange or a designated location;
“User Fee National Highway” means the Colombo-Katunayake User fee National     Highway.
13. The National Thoroughfares (Colombo-Katunayake User Fee National Highway) regulations No.1 of 2013 published
in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1832/28 of October 17, 2013 are hereby rescinded without prejudice to anything done
thereunder.
SCHEDULE
                  
PART A
Colombo – Katunayake National Highway (CKE)
USER  FEE  RATES  (Rs.)  FOR  CATEGORY  1  VEHICLES
Peliyagoda
Ja-Ela 200
Katunayake 300 200
Distances between
interchanges
14.58 km    7.56 kmPeliyagoda
Ja-Ela
Katunayake
Cars
All types of cars
All types of jeeps
 All saloon station wagons
Dual Purpose V ehicles
All cabs (single and
double)
All passenger  vans up
to 9 seats
All goods Vans and
trucks up to GVW 3500 kg
Light Motor Lorry
Lorries and
trucks having 2
Axles and
4 Wheels
Category I vehicles shall include the following:-
(Regulation 3)
}
}


<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.04.2015
5A
Peliyagoda
Ja-Ela 350
Katunayake 450 300
Distances between
interchanges
14.58 km    7.56 kmPeliyagoda
Ja-Ela
Katunayake
USER  FEE  RATES  (Rs.)  FOR  CATEGORY  2  VEHICLES
Light Motor Coaches
Passenger van having
seats more than 9
All Buses having seats
more than 9 and less
than 33
Category 2 vehicles shall include the following:-
Peliyagoda
Ja-Ela 400
Katunayake 600 300
Distances between
interchanges
14.58 km    7.56 kmPeliyagoda
Ja-Ela
Katunayake
USER  FEE  RATES  (Rs.)  FOR  CATEGORY  3  VEHICLES
 Motor Coach
All Buses  having seats
more than  33
Category 3 vehicles shall include the following:-
 Light Motor Lorry
Lorries and Trucks
having 2 Axles and 6
Wheels
Motor Lorry
Lorries and Trucks
having GVW more than
17000 kg (up to 3 axle
trucks)
}
}
}
}

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'04'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.04.2015
6A
Part B
VEHICLES EXEMPT FROM PAYMENT OF USER FEE ON THE
 COLOMBO - KATUNAY AKE NATIONAL HIGHWAY
1. All vehicles which forms part of the Presidential Convoy at any given time for so long as such vehicle is
driven along the User Fee national Highway.
2. All vehicles which forms part of the Prime Ministerial Convoy at any given time for so long as such
vehicle is driven along the User Fee National Highway.
Peliyagoda
Ja-Ela 600
Katunayake 800 300
Distances between
interchanges
14.58 km    7.56 kmPeliyagoda
Ja-Ela
Katunayake
USER  FEE  RATES (Rs.)  FOR  CATEGORY  4  VEHICLES
Heavy  Motor Coach
Combination Buses
Category 4 vehicles shall include the following:-
Heavy Motor Lorry
All vehicles having 4 or
more axles.
PRINTED A T THE DEP ARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
05 - 256
}
}