

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
753
753
wxl 1"557 _ 2008 cQ,s 04 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'07'04
No. 1,557 – FRIDAY , JULY 04, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 756
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 759
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of a cceptance of
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of publication.
All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of appli cations in regard to
vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this change, i.e., by giving adequate
time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication thus enabling those inte rested in the
contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks prior to
date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th July, 2008, should reach the Government Press on or before 12 noon
on 27th June, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  G OONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
754
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass in the
Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher examination,
should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil language obtained,as
the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate Examination or its equivalent
if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil
educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement will not apply to those who
are in the public service from a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek
appointments to other posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent
appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency Test in one
of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within
two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if the
test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the prescribed
period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until such time as
the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal
duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding permanent
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination by
a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in any
part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts should
contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover
form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will contribute
as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the compulsory
contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the Local
Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt  Service
who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for appointments
to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed pensionability  in
their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who are
released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary
in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the
Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under
these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all the
necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public officers
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads
or Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at
an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be paid in
this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by giving
a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence the
selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements
of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990 subject
to amendments that will be done by subsequent public Administration
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
755
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate who
violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following punishments at
the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject or a part
thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one year or
two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  the
candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time before
the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision shall be deemed
final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the Public Service, the decision
of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public
Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and around
the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, his assistants or
the other candidates. They should enter and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as
possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the Examination is
in progress and before the commencement of the Examination as well as immediately
after the end of the Examination they should act in accordance with the instructions
of the Supervisor and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into the
Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement of a paper.
No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an hour from the time
of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral
Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number and not
at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no candidate should
change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than the one assigned to him by
a candidate is liable to be considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall. A candidate
is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with any person within
or outside the Examination hall other than a member of the Examination hall staff. If
there is an urgent need for a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission
must be obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number and his/her
name should not be written on the answer script. Another candidate’s index number
appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is considered as an attempt to commit
a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher
is liable to be rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should not write
anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other place. Non
conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, folded or
erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be tied up with the
answer script. If should be a part of the answer script. (Such rough work should be
neatly crossed out.) Anything written inside the Examination hall should not be
taken out. If a question has been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be
neatly crossed out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct answers
with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if the work of art is
similar or very close in resemblance to that of another candidate in concept, in form
or in execution it is liable to be considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of the
Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property of the
Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to be considered
an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with him or near
him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet of paper or pieces
of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling
bag or parcel other than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments
where necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers
should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note book or a
sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination hall. Should the
Supervisor so requires each candidate is bound to declare everything he has with
him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an
act of dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer script
of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other source. A candidate
should not attempt to look at the answer script of any another candidate. A candidate
should refrain from helping another Candidate and also from getting help from
another   candidate or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept
underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the
Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper. However in
an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/she shall be allowed to do
under the surveillance of the supervisor or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to
search before leaving the hall as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement of the
Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, presenting false
identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates
are warned not to commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a p erson who is
not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their
own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the
Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each paper. If
you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination hall, make inquiries on a
day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility to sit
a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get your doubts
cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce their
identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce identification
documents at the Examination hall, his candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case
a candidate forgets to bring such documents into the Examination hall, it should be
brought to the notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, precis
paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different from the kind
generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be promptly brought to the
notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those issued at the Examination hall
should be used for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be
left on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used
with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, erasers,
pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, coloured chalk,
etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your index
number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper used. Write neatly
and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  line after the answer to each
part of a question. After the answer to a full question leave one or several blank
lines. Do not crowd in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter the
number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved for the
examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your answers correctly
as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the question
paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in which the other
questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions is often liable to affect
you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working of the
problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be accurate and sufficiently
large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if reference must be made to a
diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them up at  the
top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure to do so
may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an absentee for the
paper. On no account should your script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an Invigilator,
or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
756
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND LAW REFORMS
Appointment of Inquirers (into Sudden Deaths)
(Muslim) under Section 108 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
APPLICATIONS are invited from Muslim candidates for vacancies
in the Post of Inquirer (into sudden deaths) (Muslim) in the areas
indicated in the schedule below.
02. Applications prepared on the specimen given below should
be sent under registered cover to the “Secretary, Ministry of Justice
and Law Reforms, Colombo 12” on or before 31.07.2008. The
words "Post of Inquirer (into sudden deaths) (Muslim), District of
……………" should be written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the application. Late applications will be
rejected without any notice.
03. This is not a permanent post in the Government service.
This appointment is made to be valid until the age of 60 years and
this period could be extended upto the age of 70 years on the
submission of relevant recommendations and medical certificates.
Nevertheless, the Minister may at any moment prior to that,
terminate the services of an Inquirer (into sudden deaths) with
reasons assigned. Divisions where vacancies now exist are given
in the annexed schedule.
04. The appointees should perform the duties of Inquirers (into
sudden deaths) in accordance with the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.
05. This post does not carry a salary. However, a fee of Rs. 300
per inquest, travelling expenses and subsistence allowance approved
for Inquirers (into sudden deaths) will be paid.
06. Only persons who satisfy the following requirements may
apply.
(a) should be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(b) should be a permanent resident during the last two years
within the area for which appointment is sought;
(c) should not be less than 30 years and not more than 58
years as at the closing date of applications;
(d) should have passed the G. C. E. (Advanced Level)
examination in 03 subjects. (Priority will be given to the
applicants who have passed in science subjects)
(e) should be physically sound and of good moral character.
Priority will be given to persons who are non smokers
and teetotalers.
07. Persons who are in receipt of a salary or an allowance from
the government or a fund of a Provincial Council or local
Government institution as at the closing date of applications,
employees and members of the Boards of Directors of State
Corporations or Co-operative Societies and members of Provincial
Councils or of Local Government Institutions are not eligible to
apply for this post.
08. No document should be attached to the application. However
applicants should produce at the interview sufficient evidence in
support of their qualifications, and the originals of the following
documents should be submitted.
(a) Certificate of Birth
(b) Educational Certificates
(c) National Identity Card
(d) Certificate of Grama Niladhari to prove permanent
residence
(e) Two recent character certificates
(f) Other certificates if any, in support of additional
qualifications.
(g) In case of retired applicants, documentary evidence to
prove the date of retirement.
09. All applications should be filled in block letters according
to the following format. Applications submitted without indicating
all required information will be rejected without any notice.
10. When filling the specimen forms of application accurate
details on eligibility criteria should be included. The appointments
of applicants falling into any category referred to in Para 7 above
and of the applicants who have furnished false information for
paragraphs Nos. 06 and 08 will be cancelled, if the inaccuracy is
detected after appointment following the interview, their
appointments will be cancelled with immediate effect.
11. If a person appointed as an Inquirer (into sudden deaths) is
subsequently appointed to a post described in the aforesaid
paragraph 07, his appointment to the post of Inquirer (into sudden
deaths) will lapse from the date of appointment.
S
UHADA K. GAMALATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law
Reforms.
17th June, 2008.
At the Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
Colombo 12.
POST OF INQUIRER (INTO SUDDEN DEATHS)
(MUSLIM)
District:————.
Divisional Secretary’s Division:————.
Inquirer’s (into sudden deaths) Division:————.
Relevant Magistrate’s Court:————.
Relevant Police Station:————.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
757
Grama Niladhari Division where the applicant is resident:
————.
No.:————.
01. (a) Name with initials (in block letters):————.
(underline the surname)
(b) Names denoted by initials:————.
02. Address:————.
03.  Date of Birth:————.
04. Age as at 31.07.2008
Years:————. Months:————. Days:————.
05. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration:
06. Sex:————.
07. Educational Qualifications:
I. G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination:
Subjects passed Grade Year
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
II. G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination:
Subjects passed Grade Year
1.
2.
3.
4.
08. Professional Qualifications:————.
09. Present Occupation:————.
10. Previous Employment:————.
11. (a) Are you an employee of state, a state corporation/
Provincial Council, Co-operative or Local
Government institution?:————.
(b) If you have resigned/retired from such a service,
reason for such resignation/retirement:————.
(c) Date of approval of such resignation/retirement:
————.
12. (a) Has your employer taken any disciplinary action
against you?
(b) If so, the nature and the result of such charge:
13. (I) Have you ever been sued for any offence in any court
of law?
(II) Has any complaint to which you were a party been
ever made to a Mediation Board for mediation:
If so, the result tehreof:
14. (a) Do you presently hold a post of Inquirer (into sudden
deaths)?
(b) If so, the date of first appointment and file No. of
the Minstry:
15. Details of other qualifications, if any, relevant to this
appointment:
16. Names, addresses and designations of the two persons who
have given character certificates:
(1) (2)
Certificate
I hereby certify that above particulars furnished by me are true
and accurate.
————
Signature of Applicant.
Date:————.
Colombo District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Sri Jayawardhanepura
ii. Kolonnawa
Gampaha District
Divisional Secretay’s Division
i. Biyagama
ii. Minuwangoda
Kalutara District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Beruwala
ii. Bandaragama
iii. Matugama
iv.  Bentota

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
758
Kandy District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Doluwa - Gampola
ii. Medadumbara
iii. Harispattuwa
iv. Panvila
v. Ganga Ihala Korale
vi. Kundasale - Manikhinna
Pathadumbara Udagampaha East
Pathadumbara Udagampaha West
Nuwara-Eliya District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Hanguranketha
ii. Ambagamuwa Korale
iii. Kothmale
Matale District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Dambulla
ii. Naula
iii. Ukuwela
iv. Pallepola
Anuradhapura District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Central Nuwaragam Division
ii. East Nuwaragam Division
iii. Kekirawa
iv. Kahatagasdigiliya
v. Horowpatana
vi. Ipalogama
vii. Nochchiyagama
viii. Rambewa
Polonnaruwa District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Hingurakgoda
ii. Lankapura
iii. Thamankaduwa
Matara District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Pasgoda
ii. Welipitiya
iii. Athuraliya
iv. Kirinda-Puhulwella
v. Dickwella
Hambantota District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Hambantota
ii. Lunugamvehera
iii. Tissamaharamaya
Kegalle District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Aranayaka
ii. Dehiowita
iii. Ruwanwella
iv. Galigamuwa
Kurunegala District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Ehatuwewa
ii. Rideegama
iii. Ambanpola
iv. Narammala
v. Udubaddawa
vi. Weerambugedara
vii. Kobeigane
viii. Rasnayakapura
ix. Wariyapola
x. Mawathagama
xi. Ibbagamuwa
xii. Polgahawela
xiii. Kuliyapitiya - West
xiv. Kurunegala
xv. Galgamuwa
xvi. Bingiriya
xvii.  Mallawapitiya
xviii. Kuliyapitiya - East
Puttalam District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Kalpitiya
ii. Chilaw
iii. Mundalama
iv. Puttalam
v. Mahawewa
Ratnapura District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Godakawela
ii. Kuruwita
iii. Ratnapura
iv. Balangoda

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
759
Monaragala District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Buttala
ii. Wellawaya
Badulla District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Welimada
ii. Bandarawela
iii. Kandaketiya
iv. Passara
Ampara District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Addalachchenai
ii. Akkaraipattu
iii. Samanthure
iv. Potuvila
Trincomalee District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Thambalagamuwa
ii. Kinniya
* Sinnak Kinniya
* Kinniya
Batticaloa District
Divisional Secretary’s Division
i. Manmunei Pattu
* Palamunai
* Kankeyanodai
* Ollikkulam
ii. Eravur Town
(For the Grama Niladhari Divisions of 193A-
Meerakerny, 193 B-Michnagar, 193C-Iyankerny, 193D-
Iyankerny (M) 189-B, Kudirippu)
07-60
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
THE PROMOTION OF GRADE II GRAMA
NILADHARIES TO GRADE I - 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited for promotion of Grama Niladharies
in Grade II possessing the following qualifications to Grade I of
the service.
02. Candidates will be selected for promotion to Grade I based
on the results of a written examination to be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations on a date determined by
him. To be considered for a promotion, a candidate is required to
obtain a minimum of 40% of marks in each subject prescribed for
the written examination. Promotions shall be granted with effect
from a date determined by me being the Promotion Authority.
Officers who are not in the service on such date will not be eligible
for the promotion. Commissioner General of Examination shall
determined the Examination Centres considering the number of
applications received at administrative district level.
03. Scheme of Limited Competitive Examination.-  Candidates
are required to appear for tests in the following subjects:
(i) General Intelligence - 1 hour - 100 marks
(ii) Professional Knowledge - 1 1/2 hours - 100 marks
04. Syllabus:
(i) General Intelligence - A paper consisting of subject related
brief questions that will be set to test the degree of General
intelligence of the candidate on numerical and language
skills, problem solving aptitude, logical reasoning and
decision making ability.
(ii) Professional Knowledge - A paper consisting of two parts
(2) containing subject related brief questions as follows:
(a) Statutory Functions - A paper containing questions
to test the knowledge in office systems, general
administration and relevant ordinances, acts, rules
and regulations.
Knowledge on responsibility for Public Funds,
Maintaining of Diary, Valuation Functions,
Registration of Persons Act, Registration of V oters
Act, No. 44 of 1980. Acts pertaining to
Conservation of State Lands, Land Acquisition
Act, Environmental Conservation Act, Rules and
Regulations pertaining to Conservation of Fauna
and Flora Forest Ordinance. Duties under the
Muslim Marriages and Divorce Act, Kandyan
Marriages and Divorce Act, Fisheries and Sea Cost
Conservation, Pradeshiya Sabha Act, Gramodaya
Mandala Act, Agrarian Services Act, Conservation
of Artefacts, Irrigation Act and Duties and
Responsibilities of Grama Niladharies under these
Acts and Regulations will be tested.
(b) Non-statutory Functions - Candidates Knowledge
on public relations, development administration,
change agent activities in development,
programmes for poverty alleviation, rural
development planning, major changes introduced
to divisions level administration, environmental
pollution and to effects, export development
programmes of the Government and rural
unemployment will be tested.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
760
05. Eligibility :
(i) Should have completed 10 years of service in Grade II of
Grama Niladhari Service as at 31.07.2008 (10 years in
Grade II includes the period of permanent service as
Special Services Officers, Cultivation Officers,
Agricultural Extention Officers, Samurdhi Animator/Govi
Niyamaka, in case of officers who have been admitted
into Grama Niladhari Service from one of the above posts.
Further, when taking into considension the satisfactory
service period of officers who have lost their employment
due to political grounds in 1977 and reinstated in 1995
on the cabinet decision No. wum/97/0419/05/016, the
service period from the date of first appointment in year
1977 will be counted.)
(ii) Should have completed 5 years of satisfactory service
and earned salary increments as at 31.07.2008.
(iii) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar in accordance with
the approved procedure of the Grama Niladhari Service
before 31.07.2008.
Note.- The requirement to promote over the Efficiency Bar for
Grade II of the Grama Niladharies who have completed 10 years
service depends on a certificate issued by the Divisional Secretary
of the Divisional Secretarial Division to the effect that the officer’s
work, conduct and attendance are satisfactory disregarding the
salary scale.
06. (i) Salary Scale for Grade I of the Grama Niladhari Service:
Rs. 16,680 - 09 x 240 - 10 x 320 - Rs. 22,040 Monthly
(In terms of Public Administration Circular 6/2006 (iv))
(ii) Grama Niladharies who are promoted will be placed on the
relevant salary step into above salary scale in terms of the revisions
which have been made by Public Administration Circular 6/2006
(iii), (iv) and revisions which would be made there to from time to
time.
07. Procedure of Examination :
(i) Candidates are required to answer the 02 question papers
either in the language medium in which the candidate
passed the recruitment examination to Grama Niladhari
Service in Sinhala or Tamil medium. Those who have
been recruited to the Grama Niladhari Service without a
Competitive Examination are required to answer these
two question papers either in the language medium in
which they have received their education Sinhala medium
or Tamil medium. Both the papers should be answered
in one and the same language.
(ii) A Specimen form of the application for the examination
has been published at the end of this notification.
Candidates should prepare their own application forms
strictly in accordance with the Specimen Form.
Applications should be prepared on a A4 size paper.
Applications should be so prepared that cages 01 to 07
appear on the first page and the rest on the following
pages. whilst the application forms may be type written
or computer generated, they should be filled by
candidate’s own handwriting correclty and legibly in
accordance with the instructions given in this notification.
The title of the examination should be indicated in English
as well in addition to Sinhala and Tamil in the respective
applications.
(iii) The address to which the admission card should be sent
is also required to be furnished in the application form in
addition to the official address. This is needed solely for
the purpose of prompt delivery of admission cards to the
candidates. It is emphasized that this address will in no
way be made use of in giving promotions.
08. Applications.- Applications should be filled in duplicate and
a copy should be sent to the Divisional Secretary to be included in
the Candidate’s personal file and the other to the Commissioner
General of Examination in accordance with the following
instructions.
(i) All candidates should forward their application forms
under registered cover along with the recommendation
of the Divisional Secretary of the Division to which they
are attached, to the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla, Sri Lanka, to receive on or before
31.07.2008.
(ii) The top left hand corner of the envelop containing the
application should bear the words “Limited Competitive
Examination for Promotion of Grade II Grama
Niladharies to Grade I - 2008”. Applications received
after the closing date and which have not been duty
perfected will be rejected.
09. Examination Fee -  Fee for Examination is Rs. 300. The
receipt obtained from the Divisional Secretariats by making the
payment to be credited to the A/C No. 4000-20-03-20-13 of
Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed by only
one margin in the prescribed cage whilst mentioning the receipt
number, date and the name of Divisional Secretariat. Under no
circumanstance, this fee will be refunded or considered for
transferring as Examination Fee for any other Examination. Money
orders or stamps will not be entertained for the purpose of
Examination fee and such applications will be rejected without
any notice.
10. Admission to the Examination:
(i) Admission cards indicating the date of examination will
be issued, to all candidates who have submitted
applications by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. Candidates should get their signatures in
the admission card attested in advance and produce them
to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates will
not be allowed to enter the examination hall and to sit
for the examination without an admission card.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
761
(ii) All candidates should be aware of the rules and regulation
on examinations in the  Government Gazette  and they
should be bound by them. Candidates are subject to the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination and they will be liable to a
punishment imposed of the Commissioner General of
Examination for breach of these rules.
11. Duty leave will granted by the Heads of Departments to the
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued, by the
Commissioner General of Examination to enable them to sit for
the examination. Traveling expenses will not be paid.
12. Identity Cards.- Candidates should prove their identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
subject they appear for. For this purpose, any of the following
documents will be accepted :
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons;
(b) a valid passport.
13. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all candidates whose applications have been
accepted. The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessary mean that he or she has the requisite qualification to sit
the examination. A notification will be published in newspapers as
soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. Steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations if the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand
at the time of calling the Department of Examinations: i. e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of applicants out
side Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent.
1. Name of the Examination,
2. Full Name of the candidate,
3. Address,
4. Post Office, registration number, and the date of the
posting,
5. Divisional Secretariat to which the examination fee was
paid,
6. Number of the receipt and date.
D. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
And Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration And Home Affairs,
Independence Squre,
Colombo 07.
16th June, 2008.
Specimen Application Form
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE
PROMOTION OF  GRAMA NILADHARIES IN
GRADE II TO GRADE I - 2008
(Should include No. 01 to 07 on the first page and from No. 08
onwards on other pages)
(For office use only)
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala  - 2 District Serving in:
Tamil     - 3 District No.:English  - 4
(Refer schedule No. 01)
(Indicate the relevent number in the cage)
PART I
N. B. - Application should be filled by the candidate in his/her
own handwriting correctly and legibly.
01. (i) (a) Name :———.
(With initials in Sinhala)
(b) Name :———.
(With initials in English, eg: SUNIL, R. M. T.)
(ii) Names denoted by initials :———.
02. (i) Office Address :———.
(ii) Address to which the admission card should be sent (in
English) :———.
03. (i) Divisional Secretary’s Division to which the officer is
attached at present :———.
(ii) Gram Niladhari Division to which the officer is attached
at present
Grama Niladhari Division Number
04. National Identity Card Number:
05. Date of Birth:
Year: Month: Date:
06. (i) Date of appointment/absorption to the present position
and the reference number of the letter :———.
(ii) Period of Service (as at 31.07.2008)
Years: Months: Days:

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
762
07. If you are an officer absorbed to the Grama Niladhari Service,
the particulars  of  the previous service (complete only the
relevant paragraph):
Name of the Service Date of Entry Period of
Service
(a) Special Serivces ................. .................
Officers’ Service
(b) Cultivation Of ficers’ ................. .................
Service
(c) Agricultural Extension ................. .................
Officers Service
(d) Samurdhi Animators/ ................. .................
Govi Niyamaka Service
(e) Others ................. .................
08. (i) Have you earned all increments during the period of
service?
(ii) If not, give particulars:
09. Give particulars if you have now been released to serve in a
corporation or other service:
10. Give particulars, if you have taken no pay leave for
employment abroad or for any other purpose:
11. Give particulars if any disciplinary actions have been taken
against you:
12. N. B. - The receipt obtained from the Divisional Secretariats
by  paying  the  examination fee as specified in the Gazette
should be pasted here properly.
Number of the receipt:
Divisional Secretariat:
Date:
Amount: Rs.
I …………… certify that the particulars from 1 to 12 above are
true and correct. Futhermore, I am aware that, I could be disqualified
without considering my claim for promotion to Class I, if the above
particulars are found false and also disciplinary. action could be
taken against me and I have no objection for taking actions
accordingly. Furthermore, I hereby state that I will be abide by the
rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examination on conducting of the Examination.
————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date:————.
PART - II
 To be perfected by the Divisional Secretary
(i) I, certify that the particulars furnished above by Mr./Mrs./
Miss …………… are true and correct and were found to be
correct when compared with him/her personal file;
(ii) That no decision has been made to make disciplinary action
against him/her; and
(iii) That his/her service has been satisfactory during the 05 years
immediately preceding and has been appointed to Grade II
of the Grama Niladhari Service with effect from ……… and
he/she has been promoted over/ released from the Efficiency
Bar of Grade II Grama Niladharies with effect from ...........
and that a copy of the application forwarded herewith was
attached to the officer’s personal file.
(iv) That he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and that
the receipt obtained has been affixed in the given cage.
————,
Divisional Secretary.
Name:————.
Designation:————.
Official Stamp:————.
Date:————.
(delete inapplicable words)
Schedule No. - 01
1 Colombo
2 Gampaha
3 Kalutara
4 Matale
5 Kandy
6 Nuwara-Eliya
7 Galle
8 Matara
9 Hambantota
10 Jaffna
11 Mannar
12 Mullativu
13 Vavuniya
14 Trincomalee
15 Batticaloa
16 Ampara
17 Puttalam
18 Kurunegala
19 Anuradhapura
20 Polonnaruwa
21 Badulla
22 Monaragala
23 Kegalle
24 Ratnapura
25 Kilinochchi
07-22
PROMOTION OF GRAMA NILADHARIES TO
GRADE I ON MERIT - 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from Grama Niladharies in Grade II
possessing the following qualifications for promotion to Grade I
on seniority and merit.
01. Procedure of Promotion.-  Promotions will be granted to
the Grama Niladharies who have satisfied the qualifications

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
763
mentioned in Paragraph 02 below taking in to account their seniority
and merit assessed at the interview to be conducted by a Board of
Interview appointed by me. Those candidates who secure 40% of
marks or more at the interview will be promoted to Grade I of the
Grama Niladhari Service.
02. Qualifications :
(a) Possessing 15 years of service in Grade II of the Grama
Niladhari Service as at 31.07.2008 including the period
of absorption in to Provincial Public Service. (15 years
in Grade II included the period of permanent service as
Special Services Officers, Cultivation Officers,
Agricultural Extention Officers, Samurdhi Animator/Govi
Niyamaka, in case of officers who have been absorbed
into Grama Niladhari Service from one of the above posts.
Further, when taking into considension the service period
of officers who have lost their employment due to political
grounds in 1977 and reinstated in 1995 on the Cabinet
Decision No. wum/97/0419/05/016, the service period
from the date of first appointment in year 1977 will be
counted.)
(b) Should have possessed a satisfactory period of service
and earned increments of last 5 years in Grade II of the
Grama Niladhari Service prior to 31.07.2008.
(c) Should have passed from the Efficiency Bar Examination
in terms of the approved scheme of the Grama Niladhari
Service before 31.07.2008.
Note- The requirement to promote over the Efficiency
Bar for Grade II of the Grama Niladharies who have
completed 10 years service depends on a certifiate issued
by the Divisional Secretary of the Divisional Secretariat
Division to the effect that the officer’s work, conduct
and attendance are satisfactory, disregarding the salary
scale.
(d) Candidates who are appearing for the Competitive
Examination for promotion to Grade I of Grama Niladhari
Service due to be held in 2008 by the Commissioner -
General of Examination may also apply for this if they
possess the qualifications listed above.
03. Salary scale :
(i) For Grade I of the Grama Niladhari Service
Rs. 16,680-09x240-10x320-Rs. 22,040 Monthly
(In terms of Public Administration Circular 6/2006 (iv))
(ii) Grama Niladharies who are promoted will be placed on
the relevant salary step into above salary scale in terms
of the revisions which have been made by Public
Administration Circular 6/2006 (iii), (iv) and revisions
which would be made there to from time to time.
04. Procedure of Recruitment.-  Candidates will be tested by
calling them before an interview board. The following will be taken
into consideration at the interview by the board and marks will be
allocated accordingly.
(a) 20 Marks for satisfactory service records - 2 marks will
be allocated for each year
year in respect of the previous period except the 5 years
immediately preceding the prescribed date.
(b) 20 Marks for Commendation - 04 marks for
Commendation Certificates made in accordance with the
approved form and 02 marks for other Commendation
Certificates.
(c) 20 Marks for Creative Activities.
(d) 30 Marks for Seniority - 2 marks will be allocated for
each year of satisfactory service beyond 15 years of
service.
(e) Service Experience - 20 marks for the sound
understanding of the duties entrusted.
Those who secure 40% of marks or more at the interview will
be promoted to the Grade I of the Grama Niladhari Service w. e. f.
the date determined by me being the Promotion Authority. However,
any officer who is not in the service as at the date determined for
such promotion, will not be eligible for promotion.
05. Receiving of Applications :
(i) All applications should be prepared in duplicate and one
copy should be sent through the Divisional Secretary of
the Division where the applicant is serving by registered
post to reach the District Secretary on or before
31.07.2008 and steps should be taken to get the other
copy included in the Personal File.
(ii) District Secretary shall prepare a list of applications, at
the level of Divisional Secretariat Divisions, which are
received on due date and send the list to the Ministry. (It
is not necessary to send the applications)
(iii) Applicants should prepare their applications only as per
the specimen form of application. Application can be type
written, but should be filled correctly and legibly by the
applicants themselves in their own handwriting.
(iv) Any documents or a copy of a document should not be
attached to the application. However, the documents to
prove the qualifications furnished in the application
should be kept ready for submission whenever requested.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
764
(v) All applications prepared contrary to the instructions
given in this notification will be rejected.
D. DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
16th June, 2008.
Specimen Application Form
(Should be prepared using both sides of A4 Paper)
Part - I
01. (i) Name with initials :————.
Names denoted by initials :————.
02. (i) Office Address :————.
(ii) Private Address :————.
03. Date of Birth :————.
04. Age as at 31.07.2008 :
Years:————, Months:————, Days:————.
05. Date of first appointment to Public Service :————.
06. Date of appointment to Grama Niladhari Service/Date of
absorption :————.
07. Particulars if absorbed into Grama Niladhari Service
(Fill only the relevant paragraph) :
Name of the Service Date of Entry Period of
Service
(a) Special Serivces ................. .................
Officers’ Service
(b) Cultivation Of ficers’ ................. .................
Service
(c) Agricultural Extension ................. .................
Officers Service
(d) Samurdhi Govi Animation ................. .................
Service
(e) Others ................. .................
08. (i) Name and number of Grama Niladhari Division serving
at present :————.
(ii) Divisional Secretay’s Division to which that Grama
Niladhari Division belongs :————.
09. Districts, Divisional Secretary Divisions and Grama
Niladhari Divisions served
(With the period of service) :
District Divisional Grama Period
Secretary’ s Niladhari
Division Division From To
10. (i) Have you earned all increments during the period of
service? :————.
(ii) If not, give particulars :————.
11. Give particulars if you have now been released to serve in a
corporation or other service :————.
12. Give particulars, if you have taken no pay leave for
employment abroad or for any other purpose? :————.
13. Creative work carried out by you during the period of service
(state in brief about the work done, population benefited
etc.) :————.
14. Details about commendations received during the period of
service :————.
15. Give particulars, if any disciplinary actions have been taken
against you :————.
I, ………certify that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct, furthermore I am aware that, I could be disqualified
without considering my claim for promotion to Class I if the above
particulars are found false and also disciplinary action could be
taken against me and I have no objection for taking actions
accordingly.
————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :————.
Part II
To be perfected by the Divisional Secretary:
(i) I certify that the particulars furnished above by Mr./Mrs./
Miss.………… are true and correct and were found to
be correct when compared with his/her personal file;
(ii) That no decision has been made to take disciplinary action
against him/her; and
(iii) That his/her service has been satisfactory during the 05
years immediately preceding and has been appointed to
Grade II of the Grama Niladhari Service with effect from

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
765
……… and he/she has been promoted over/released from
the Efficiency Bar of Grade II Grama Niladharies with
effect from ……… and that a copy of the application
forwarded herewith was attached to the officer’s personal
file.
—————,
Divisional Secretary.
Name:————.
Designation:————.
Official Stamp:————.
Date:————.
(Delete inapplicable words)
07-23
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS
IN CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS' SERVICE -– 2008 (I)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants' Service will
be held by the Commissioner-General of Examinations in the month
of October 2008 as per provisions of para 5.2 of the approved
service minute of Public Management Assistants' Service published
in the Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka  bearing No. 1372/23 dated 24.12.2004.
2.0 This Examination for officers in Class II of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The list of relevant town and town numbers are given below. The
Commissioner-General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel
any center due to insufficiency of candidates or any other reason
and decide an alternative considering the candidate's preference of
towns.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0. (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the candidates will
be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been separately
printed in the Gazette Notification . Candidates will be subjected
to any punishement imposed by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
4.0. Eligibility.- Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Class II of Public Management Assistant's Service are eligible to
appear for this examination.
5.0. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations, Organization & Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 04th August, 2008. The name
of the examination should be indicated at the top left hand corner
of the envelope containing the application. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected. Incomplete applications, too,
will not be accepted.
6.0. Identity of the Candidates.–  Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of
the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) Tha National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner-General of Examinations.
7.0. Applications.- Applcations should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that para nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but it should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's own handwriting.
The candidates appearing for the examinations for the first time
need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 90 should be affixed for the whole examination for subsequent
sittings, and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 should be affixed if only
one subject is offered. The stamps should be duly cancelled by
placing signature of the candidate and the date. Under any
circumstances, the fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect
of any other examination.
8.0. Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue copies
of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been accepted. Candidates should get their
signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender
to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates without
admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the examination. If
a candidate has not received his/her admission card at least seven

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
766
days (07) before the day of examination, he/she should, without
delay, inform the Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Organization & Foreign Examinations
Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla (Telegraphic Address : “Exams”
Battaramulla) about the non-receipt of admission card along with
the following information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii) Full Postal Address ;
(iv) Post Office, Registration Number and the Date of
Dispatch.
9.0. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0. Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to
the relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates
who entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both
papers should be answered in the language medium of their
education or in an official language.
11.0. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
(For further details, refer to para. 5:2 of Public Management
Assistants' Service Minute.)
12.0. For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
13.0. The Commissioner-General of Examinations will release
the results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and the lists of names of the candidates who have passed
the exam will be published in the Government Gazette of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0. Examination Procedure.-  Candidates should sit for a
written examination which will consist of the following subjects :
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
(01) Office systems and 100 02 Hrs. 01
procedure
(02) Accounting Systems 100 02 Hrs. 02
adopted in the
Government Offices
Total 200
14.1 Office Systems and Procedure.-  This paper is intended
to test the candidate's knowledge of office systems
adopted in government offices and his/her ability of
practical application of the knowledge. This paper consist
of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple choice questions, duration
is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
14.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government Offices.-
Candidate's knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted
in government office, books and records controlling
accounts and orders and instructions of the Treasury
issued in relation to that and his/her ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. This paper
consists of two parts :
Part I  - A paper of multiple choice questions, duration
is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered,
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
15.0. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
A. N
OBERT,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
& Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration
& Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th June, 2008.
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
CLASS II OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE – 2008 (I)
Serial No.
(For office use only)
(Indicate the name and the number Town Town No.
of the town in which you wish to sit
for the examination as per para 2.0 1.
of the Gazette notification )2 .
Medium of examination
Write the relevant number in the cage
(Sinhala-2, Tamil-3, English-4)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
767
01. 1.1 Name with Initials : Mr./Miss/Mrs. :————.
(In Capital Letters)
Eg: Mr./Miss/Mrs
. SILV A M. A.
1.2 Name with initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In Capital Letters)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Place of work and address :
2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/
Institution :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:————.
(In Capital Letters)
03. Sex :-
Female – 1, Male – 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Subject/s you offer on this sitting :
Subject Subject No.
06. Present Post :
6.1 Post :————.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :————.
6.3 Date of entry into Class II of Public Management
Assistant's Service :————.
07. 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :
————.
7.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :————.
7.3 Stamp Cage :————.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 90 for
whole Examination and Rs. 50 for each
subject.
Note.- The candidates should affix stamps to the relevent value
and cancel them by placing their signature and date. Stamps should
not overlap each other.
08. Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the language
medium indicated above. I also certify that the
Rs. ...................... stamps affixed here to are genuine and
have not been used before. Further, I agree to be bound by
the rules and regulations of the examinations act and also to
the decision taken by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations regarding this examination.
————,
Signature of candidate.
Date :————.
Note.- The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head of
his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized to sign on
behalf of such Head of Department.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I certify that ....................................... who is an officer in my
office and who is known to me personally placed his/her signature
in my presence this ..................................... day of
...........................................
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
person attesting.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined ;
(ii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the
examination earlier ;
(iii) *He/she has affixed stamps to the value of
Rs. .........................................  since *he/she has appeared
for the examination ; and
(iv) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
————,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
Date :————.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
07-101

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
768
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to  the
Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of A dvertise-
ments.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of  the
Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 51 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 51 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in schedule
of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 31 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 11 0 5 0
(B) Section I 10 0 5 0
Section II 12 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05. who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'07'04
PART I : SEC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2008
769
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies
depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2008
JULY 04.07.2008 Friday — 20.06.2008 Friday 12 noon
11.07.2008 Friday –– 27.06.2008 Friday 12 noon
18.07.2008 Friday –– 04.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
25.07.2008 Friday –– 11.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 01.08.2008 Friday — 18.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2008 Friday –– 25.07.2008 Friday 12 noon
15.08.2008 Friday –– 01.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
22.08.2008 Friday –– 08.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
29.08.2008 Friday –– 15.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 05.09.2008 Friday — 22.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
12.09.2008 Friday –– 29.08.2008 Friday 12 noon
19.09.2008 Friday –– 05.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
26.09.2008 Friday –– 12.09.2008 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.