

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2127
2127
wxl 1"680 - 2010 fkdjeïn¾ ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'11'12
No. 1,680 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 12, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2130
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 2134
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th November, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th
November, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2128
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2129
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2130
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th December, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
26th October, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Harispattuwa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of District Secretary/ Additional
Uguressapitiya Area in Harispattuwa Division of Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Kandy District Kandy.
11–286
–––––––––––––
Amendment
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Birth and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
THE “Post of Registrar of Marriage (General) for the Ratmalana
Division” which was amended by the notice of amendment in
published the Gazette No. 1,675 dated 08.10.2010 in connection
with the Gazette No. 1,670 of 03.09.2010 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka is hereby rechanged as “Post of Registrar of
Marriage (General) for Ratmalana West of Colombo Division”.
02. The closing date of receiving applications only for this
changed post will be 13th December, 2010.
03. All other details relevant to the above post published in the
Gazette notification No. 1,670 dated 03.09.2010 remain unchanged.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
21st October, 2010.
11–229

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2131
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim Males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 13th December, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
26th October, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for the District Secretary/ Additional
Harispattuwa Rambuke Ela Division of the Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Kandy District Kandy.
Kandy Akurana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for District Secretary/ Additional
Malwahinnagama Area of Harispattuwa Division Registrar General, District Secretariat,
of the Kandy District Kandy.
11–288
––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for male/female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the
Administrative Legal Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing
the professional qualifications given below :
Administrative Legal Branch  :
Chief Legal Officer – Regular/V olunteer.- Attorney-at-Law with
active legal practice for a period not less than 15 years.
3. Other requirements  :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female
(d) Age : Not more than 45 years as at 31st
December, 2010
(e) Height : Male – 5'5" and above
: Female – 5' 4" and above
(f) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (with or
without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may have special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height, provided
he/she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2132
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Wing
Commander or Group Captain in keeping with his/her qualifications
and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15( b)(16).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers in the rank of
Wing Commander and Group Captain shall be as
follows :
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Service Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,250 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
3. Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
4. Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
5. Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100
will be paid for each working day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 10,609.75 per month (if
permitted to live out).
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
12. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
13. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
14. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
15. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
16. Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Group Captain and
above Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 19th November,
2010 under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked  “Application for the Post
of Chief Legal Officer” Applications received after the
closing date and not in accordance with the requirements
of this notification and not in registered post mail will
not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2133
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant.
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. G
OONETILEKE,
Air Chief Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE REGULAR/
VOLUNTEER FORCE OF THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE IN
THE ADMINISTRATIVE LEGAL BRANCH
(CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER)
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Post applied :–––––––––––.
5. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
6. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
7. Postal address :–––––––––––.
8. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
9. Height :–––––'––––––".
10. District :–––––––––––.
11. Electorate :–––––––––––.
12. Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
13. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
14. Civil status :–––––––––––.
15. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Schoo/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
16. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
17. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
18. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2134
19. Details of current achievemens in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
20. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
21. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
22. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
23. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
24. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
25. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
26. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–181
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATIONS  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA  ANIMAL
PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH  SERVICE  –  2009(2010)
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned Service will be held in Peradeniya on February,
2011. Applications are called from the officers who were in the Sri Lanka Animal Productions and Health Service as at 01st October, 2010.
2. Time tables will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations 01 and 02 at the same time.
3. The Syllabus and rules and regulations relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations 1 and 2 are stated in the service minute.
Accordingly Syllabus for the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service is given in Appendix “A”
and syllabus for the 2nd efficiency Bar Examinations is given in appendix “B”. Officers can sit for all subjects in one attempt  or several
attempts.
AMENDMENT
Application to the Post of Superintendent of Press in Dpartment of Examinations
IN notice No. 10/983 of paragraph (IIA) in Part I of the Government Gazette of the 29.10.2010, the article (vi) in Section 04 under the
"Method of Applications" under the above heading should be amended as follows :
(vi) The Secretary of Ministry of Education reserves the right to decide on any matter that is not covered by this notification .
By order of the Secretary of Ministry of Education.
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawaththa,
Baththaramulla,
03rd November, 2010.
11–525

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2135
4. The prescribed subjects for the efficiency bar examinations are given below :–
Sri Lanka Animal Productions and Health Service
1st Efficiency Bar 2nd Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subjects Duration
No. hours No. hours
01 Funding sources 3 01 Part I 3
02 Administration 3 02 Part II 3
03 Departmental Regulations 2 03 Part 03 - Paper I 3
04 Paper I 3 04 Part 03 - Paper II 3
Departmental Regulations 05 Part 03 - Paper III 3
05 Paper II 3 06 Part 03 - Paper IV 3
Special paper* 07 Part 03 - Paper V 3
08 Part 03 - Paper VI 3
09 Part 03 - Paper VII 3
10 Part 03 - Paper VIII 3
11 Part 03 - Paper IX 3
12 Part 03 - Paper X 3
13 Part 03 - Paper XI 3
*Only the Veterinary Research Officers can apply.
Note.– The candidates who sit for 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination should select either Part 01 or 02 of the question papers and
two question papers from XI question Papers given in 03. The candidate should obtain at least 40% marks for each paper
to pass the examination.
5. The attention of the Candidates who sit for the Efficiency Bar Examinations is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular
No. 701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below :-
“The medium for departmental examinations (including Prmotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the Language in
which the officer sat for the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Service or the Official Language. But the officers who entered the
service without a competitive examination should select either the Language in which the officer qualified for entry to the Public Service or
the Official Language.
6. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examinations enabling the candidates to answer the following
papers in Sinhala, Tamil or English. Permission will not be given to change the medium applied by the candidate later :–
1. Funding Sources ;
2. Administration ;
3. Departmental Regulation Paper I ;
4. Departmental Regulation Paper II.
7. If found later that the candidate has sat for the examination in a medium in which he is not entitled his candidature will b e
cancelled.
8. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to the notification and should be prepared on A4 size paper
using both sides of it. “If the candidate wishes to sit for Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II the applications should be submitted separately
for each examination”. It should be noted that the cages 01 to 08 should appear on page I of the paper and the balance on the other side of
the paper. The application should be filled by the candidate. The applications which are not prepared as per the specimen form and the
incomplete application forms will be rejected without informing the candidate. The candidate is advised to keep a Photostat cop y of the
application for his use. Further the candidate should check the applications prepared by himself with the specimen application appeared in
the notice. If it is not prepared as stated the application will be rejected. The name of the examination should be written in English too in the
applications prepared in Sinhala and Tamil Medium.
9. The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates are bound to abide by rules
and regulations enacted by him. The relevant rules and regulations are appeared at the end of this notice. If a candidate violates any of the
rules he/she will be penalized at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examination.
10. Applications should be forwarded through the Head of Department/Institute by registered Post to reach the Director General,
to the addressed given below on or before 26th November, 2010. The applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
Director General of Animal Production and Health,
Department of Animal Product and Health,
Getembe, Peradeniya.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2136
11. A paper notice will be published by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received 2-3 days after the publication of the notice it should be informed to the Dep artment of
Animal Production and Health as stated in the notice. It is useful to keep a certified photostat copies of the application and receipt for the
payment and receipt for the registration with your request and those who reside outside Colombo should contact giving the Fax Number  and
contact the Department of Animal Production Health.
12. The claims submitted later by the candidates who have failed to fulfill the requirements as stated in the above Paragraph 11 will
not be considered.
13. The attention of all the candidates is invited to Circular No. 274 dated 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
Examinations regarding the use of identity cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity at the Examination Hall. Only
the National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or the valid passport will be accepted for the examinations
conducted by the Department of Examinations in order to prove the identity of the candidate at the examination hall.
14. Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit for the examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit for this examination for the first time.
(b) For each subsequent sitting :
For whole examination Rs. 400
Single subject Rs. 200
Candidates who have already sat for this examination are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above. The above
examination fees should be pay to any Post office/District or Divisional Secretariat situated in the Island to be credit to the Revenue Head
No. 292-1-1-2401 of the Director General of Animal Production and Health and the receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant
cage in the application. Further it may be useful to keep a photostat copy of it.
15. Issuing of an Admission Card to a candidate will not be considered that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the
examination.
A. H. G
AMAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45, St. Michel Road,
Colombo 03,
...........2010.
Specimen Application Form
DEPARTMENT OF EXAMINA TIONS – SRI LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH SERVICE – 2009(2010)
The name of the examination should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Two applications should be sent for Efficiency
Bar Examinations I and II if the candidate wishes to sit for them at the same time.
Medium in which the applicant wishes to sit for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Give the relevant number in the box)
Examination applied by the candidate :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination - 1
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - 2 (Give the relevant number in the box)
01. ( a) Last name with Initials :––––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by Initials :––––––––––.
02. Date of Birth : Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
03. Designation :––––––––––.
Name of Department :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address (for dispatch of Admission Card) :––––––––––.
05. The date on which the appointment was made to the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service :––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2137
06. Subjects selected with the number as indicated in the Paragraph 04 of the notification (Should be written clearly) :
I Subject No. Subject ..................................
II Subject No. Subject ..................................
III Subject No. Subject ..................................
IV Subject No. Subject ..................................
V Subject No. Subject ..................................
07. State whether you have set for the whole/part of examination previously :––––––––––.
If so give the subjects, year and the month :––––––––––.
08. NIC No. :––––––––––.
09. State whether you have set for the whole/part of examination previously :––––––––––.
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated in the
Paragraph 08.
I also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before the cancellation by me. Further I am prepared to
abide the conditions in acted by the Commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the examination.
10. Examination fee Rs. :––––––––––.
To affix the receipt (keep a photostat copy of the receipt)
–––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––. Signature of Candidate.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General, Department of Animal Production and Health.
Forwarded :
*I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear above is eligible to sit for the examination and that he/she has qualifications
to sit for the examination in the medium stated in Paragraph 08.
I also certify that the stamps have been duly affixed and cancelled by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :––––––––––.
(*May be deleted if the fees not paid)
Appendix "A"
(a) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the
following subjects :
1. Financial Regulations,
2. Administration,
3. Departmental Regulations - I,
4. Departmental Regulations - II
1. Financial Regulations :
The Examination in Financial Regulations will be based on the following :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X) ;
(b) Estimates of the current year. e. g.– preparations of them funding scores Appropriation Act ;
(c) Kachcheries Accounts as pertaining to accounts maintain by Kachchery.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
2. Administration :
The Examination in administration will be based on the following :
(a) Office and Field Organizational methods ;
(b) The Establishment Code (Chapters I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII)
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2138
3. Departmental Regulations - I :
The examination in Departmental Regulations will be based on the followings :
A two hours paper on the following subjects :–
The ordinance for contagious Animal Diseases, Animal Act, Departmental Orders and circulars relevant to Veterinary Surgeon's Services.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
4. Departmental Regulations – II :
A Three hours paper on the following subjects :–
(a) Dissemination of specimens, Laboratory identification including post - mortem examination. Pregnancies diagnosis, vaccines for
contagious and infectious disease, sera logical test.
(b) Techniques and practices of artificial inseminations, principles relevant to breeding and rearing of calves, hatching and rearing of
chicks by incubation, animal nutrition, food rationing usage, pasture fodder cultivation, preparation of silages and Livestock
Management.
(c) Milk production, bottling and transportation of pasteurized milk, bacteria and fat in milk, separation of cream and processing of
butter, ghee and curd.
(d) Analysis of meat, including slaughtering of animal in abattoirs, identification of meat.
Note.– A candidate should obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
Appendix "B"
(a) The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service will comprise the
following subjects :
Part I - Sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the syllabus can be obtained
from the Director General of Department of Animal Productions and Health, Peradeniya and all the Provincial
Directors' offices of Department of Animal Productions and Health.
Part II - Sections 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1:2:1, 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1, 10:2:8, 10:4:1 of the
syllabus can be obtained from the Director General of Department of A P & H, Peradeniya and all Provincial
Directors' office of Department of Animal Productions and Health.
Part III - Paper 1 - Epidemiology
Paper 2 - Livestock Economics
Paper 3 - Veterinary Public Health
Paper 4 - Agriculture Extension
Paper 5 - Genetics and Breeding
Paper 6 - Animal Physiology and Reproduction
Paper 7 - Housing for Animals and Management
Paper 8 - Animal Nutrition
Paper 9 - Pasture and Fodder
Paper 10 - Applied Vet. Microbiology and Immunology
Paper 11 - Applied Medicine, Pathology and Parasitology.
Details can be obtained from the Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health, Peradeniya and all Provincial
Directors' office of Department of Animal Production and Health.
11–175
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN CLASS  I  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT
TRANSLATORS'  SERVICE  –  2010
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the Translators' Service, as provided for in Paragraph 08 of the Translators' Service
Minute published in the Government Gazette Extraordinary No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in the month of February, 2011. Candidates may appear for the examination either in Sinhala, Tamil or English
media. The language medium of examination applied initially will not be allowed to change.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2139
02. The specimen form of application for this examination is published at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared correctly and legibly and the officers should send their applications through the respective Heads of Departments by r egistered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, Organizations and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, on or before 13th December, 2010. The name of the examination should be indicated on the top left-hand
corner of the envelope in which the application is sent to the Commissioner General of Examinations. Applications received after the closing
date will be rejected.
03. (i) The application should be prepared on a paper 8"x12" size, using both sides of the paper in such a manner that items
No. 1.0 to 2.10 appear on the first page and the remaining numbers in the second page. Although application form could
be typewritten, it should be filled by the candidate's own handwriting. Applications that are not complete in every
aspect and that do not comply with the specimen will be rejected without any notice. It would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form at the candidate's possession.
(ii) For the purposes of Official Languages Policy, all the applicants should prepare and fill their application forms in the
official language. The name of the examination appearing in the heading of the application form should be indicated in
English in both Sinhala and Tamil medium applications.
04. Syllabus and Scheme of Examination :
1st Subject - Paper 01 :
Translation of –
(i) A passage of general interest ; and
(ii) Extracts from –
(a) an official document or report ; and
(b) a newspaper article or report in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate's
medium of translation.
(i) From Sinhala into Tamil
(ii) From Sinhala into English
(iii) From Tamil into English
Duration - 03 Hours
Marks - 100
2nd Subject - Paper 02 :
Translation of –
(i) A passage of general interest ; and
(ii) Extracts from –
(a) an official document or report ; and
(b) a newspaper article or report in one of the following ways selected, in accordance with the Candidate's
medium of translation.
(i) From Tamil into Sinhala
(ii) From English into Sinhala
(iii) From English into Tamil
Duration - 03 Hours
Marks - 100
Candidates should obtain 40% or above of the total marks for each paper to pass the examination.
05. Candidate's handwriting will be taken into consideration.
06. Examination Fees.– Examination fees will be levied in respect of candidates for this examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be levied in respect of candidates appearing for the first time.
(b) Fees for appearing on a subsequent occasion will be Rs. 400 for the full examination and Rs. 200 for a single subject.
(c) The examination fee could be paid at any post office in the Island to be credited to the Revenue head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained should be affixed to the Relevant Cage of the application
form. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash receipt with the candidate.
(d) The examination fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination under any circumstances.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2140
07. Admission to the Examination :
(i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue Admission Cards to all applicants whose applications have been
received. Candidates must get their signatures in the Admission Cards attested in Advance and produce the Admission
Cards to the supervisor of the examination center, when presenting themselves for the examination. Candidates without
such Admission Cards will not be permitted either to enter the examination hall or sit the examination. A notification will
be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the Admission Cards are issued to the
candidates. If the Admission Card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the application
form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of Registration by Head of Department and in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a Fax Number to which the Admission Cards should be sent.
(ii) Each candidate will be issued a time table along with the admission card.
(iii) Candidates are bound by the rules and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
conduct of the Examination. They will be liable to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the breach of these rules.
(iv) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at the beginning of this Gazette.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to sit for the examination should not be considered as an acceptance of requisite
qualifications of a candidate to complete at the examination.
08. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for candidates to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, to present themselves at the examination. Travelling expenses are not payable.
09. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :–
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any one of the above mentioned documents in addition to his admission
card is liable to be cancelled on the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services will be final in respect of any matter, which has not been provided
for in this notification.
B. P. P . S. A
BEYGUNARA THNA,
Director General of Combined Services.
Combined Services Division,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
27th October, 2010.
(For office use only)
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS I OF THE GOVERNMENT
TRANSLATORS' SERVICE – 2010
(N. B.– This form should be filled correctly and legibly by the candidates own handwriting.)
1.0 Medium of Translations of candidate as per Para. 04 of the Gazette Notification :
Paper 01 : From Sinhala into Tamil - 1
From Sinhala into English - 2
From Tamil into English - 3 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2141
Paper 02 : From Tamil into Sinhala - 4
From English into Sinhala - 5
From English into Tamil - 6 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
* Candidates may appear for either paper 01, paper 02 or both the papers.
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English block Capitals :–––––––––.
Eg:- SILV A, A. B.
2.2 Names denoted by initials in English block Capitals :–––––––––.
2.3 Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
2.4 Name of Ministry/Department/Office :–––––––––.
2.5 Official Address (in English block Capitals) :–––––––––.
(The Admission Card will be sent to this address)
2.6 Sex : (Female - 1, Male - 0) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Date of Birth :
Date :   Month :   Year :
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Present Post :–––––––––.
2.10 Number of the letter of Appointment :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you appearing for this examination for the first time ? :–––––––––.
3.2 If not, number of the affixed cash receipt received by paying the examination fee :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
Issued Post Office :–––––––––.
The cash receipt obtained from any post office for payment of Rs. 200 for one subject and Rs. 400
for whole examination, should be affixed here (Please keep a photocopy of the cash receipt)
4.0 Certificate of Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the medium stated above
and that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of thi s
examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
5.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I hereby certify that,
(i) this candidate is employed in this department as a Translator in Class I of the Translators' Service ;
(ii) the particulars furnished above are correct ;
(iii) his/her work and cond uct have been satisfactory throughout and he/she has not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment (excluding warning) during the 5 years preceding ; and
(iv) he/she is eligible to sit for this examination ;
(v) he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt has been affixed (delete if  inapplicable).
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and official stamp.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
11–299

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2142
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of Students for Pharmacists Training in the
Professions Supplementary to Medicine – 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from the eligible citizens of Sri Lanka
for recruitment to the Pharmacists training in the Professions
Supplementary to Medicine in the Ministry of Health.
01. The eligible persons will be selected based on a priority list
prepared on the Z- score marks of the General Certificate of Education
(Advanced Level) Examination 2007, 2008.
02. Selection will be made based on district population ratio
depending on the number of students to be recruited for training.
03. (i) Since this is a full-time course, the students who attend
to other courses on 05 working days of the week and
forenoon on Saturday should not apply for this course.
(ii) If you had or have been registered with any University
on any date you should get that registration cancelled
by the date you submit your application. (Although
you have not attended or you are not attending lectures
after regulation with a university you are treated as a
university student and therefore such applicants too
should get their registration cancelled.)
(iii) If you have completed your degree in any university
the effective date of that degree should be one earlier
than that of the closing date of applications.
N. B.– You should note that any section of this gazette
notification does not mean that you are necessarily
selected and admitted to the Pharmacist Training Course
because of the same reason that you have got your
registration with the unviersity cancelled or that you
have completed your degree in terms of para 03 ii and
03 iii above.
Also if you do not have secured an adequate Z-score value you
will not become quality to follow this training course irrespective of
the fact that you have got your registration with the university
cancelled or you have completed your degree.
At the same time if you do not have fulfilled the requirements in
paras 03i, 03ii and 03iii above you will not become qualify for this
training course irrespective of the fact that you have secured an
adequate Z-score value.
04. The period of training for the relevant course is 02 years.
05. Educational qualifications.– Should have passed G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination in Six subjects including English Language with
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science and
another subject at not more than two sittings.
Should have passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in 2007/
2008 with two of the following subjects of Combined maths, Physics,
Biology and Agricultural Science, with a credit pass for Chemistry at
one sitting.
It is compulsory that Z-score value of the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in the application.
06. Other qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of
age as at 15.12.2010.
(b) Should be willing to serve in any part of the island.
(c) Should be physically fit and healthy.
(d) Should be a resident for a period of 03 years within the
district from which the applicant submit his/her
application.
07. Method of application :
(a) Applications should be prepared confirm to the specimen
attached to this letter. Every candidate should attach to
their application a Money order for a fee Rs. 200 drawn in
favour of the "Director General of Health Services,
Ministry of Health, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10"
and encashable from the General Post Office Colombo.
The fee once paid will not be refunded under any
circumstances.
(b) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education
Service/Government Accountants Service/ Principal of a
Governemnt School/Justice of the Peace/Attorney-at-Law
or by a Government Officer drawing a salary not less than
Rs. 240,360 per annum.
(c) Perfected applications should be sent under registered
cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry
of Health, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before
15.12.2010. The post applied for should be written on the
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
08. Applications of those who are serving in government or semi-
government institutions should be sent through their Heads of
Department.
09. Applications will not be acknowledged.
10. Applications received after the due date will be rejected.
11. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of
the notice will be rejected.
12. Applicants, who have fulfilled educational and other
qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants
should submit originals of the following documents at the interview.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2143
The candidature of those candidates who fail to submit originals of
the relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled.
(a) Certificate of birth ;
(b) Originals of the educational certificates and in the absence
of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates
or the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the
Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.
(c) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations
indicating the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination Z-score marks
level.
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving Licence.
(e) Grama Seva Certificate countersigned by the Divisional
Secretary too prove residency of 03 years within the
District.
13. Scheme of Training :
(i) Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective
training schools to follow the training course in Pharmacist.
Candidates should follow the course in English medium.
(ii) The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in
force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Department.
(iii) The training of those who fail in the examinations or
whose work and conduct proved to be is unsatisfactory
or who fail to comply with the conditions of examination
and leave in their Schools of training during the period of
training is liable to be stopped at any time wthout payment
of any compensation.
(iv) Trainees will be paid monthly allowance during the period
of training.
(v) The trainees when entering into the Schools of Training
should enter into an agreement with the Director General
of Health Services to the effect that the trainee shall
complete the training successfully without leaving the
same and if given an appointment after completion of
training shall serve the Department of Health Services for
a minimum of 10 years period. In the event he/she
withdraws from the training or leaves the training or had
to be discontinued from the training as per Para (03)
above during the period of training, he/she shall refund to
the Department the expenditure incurred for the payment
of allowances and other expenses borne by the
Government during the period of his/her training.
Otherwise action will be taken to recover such expenses
incurred by the Department as stipulated in the agreement.
14. Terms of Engagement.–  The Department is not bound to
grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However,
the trainees who succeed in the final examination will be given
appointments to the Class III of the relevant post, depending on the
vacancies available in any part of the island based on their merits. (It
is compulsory to serve at least 02 years from the date of first
appointment in the station of the first appointment.
15. When filling in applications the educational and other
qualifications should be entered with due care. Provided that
certificates so furnished were proved to be false or incorrect after
recruitment for training or after giving appoinments, action will be
taken to discontinue from the training or to dismiss from the service
and also to backlist their names and thereby preventing them from
re-entering to the Government Service.
16. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination,
to asure their physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination
will become disqualify to continue with their training.
17. All the officers so recruited will be subject to all rules and
regulations applicable to public officers the provisions of the
Establishments Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, policies enforced by the Department of Health Services,
Financial and other regulations and rules and regulations and orders
enacted from time to time by the Government.
18. The decision of the Secretary Health will be the final in
respect of any issue arising out of the recruitment to the training
which does not cover by this Gazette notification.
Dr. R
AVINDRA RUBERU,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
RECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS FOR PHARMACISTS
TRAINING IN THE PROFESSIONS SUPPLENETARY TO
MEDICINE IN THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH - 2010
01. ( a) Name with initials (in block Capitals) :––––––––.
(b) Name in full (in block Capitals) :––––––––.
(c) Name in full (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
02. National Identity Card Number :
03. Postal Address :
Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––.
English :––––––––.
04. (i) Permanent Address :
Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––.
English :––––––––.
(ii) District :––––––––.
(iii) Are you a permanent resident in the District ? Yes/No.
:––––––––.
(iv) If yes, How long ? :––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2144
05. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
Age as at 15.12.2010 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
06. Whether Male or Female :
(Mark "3" in the relevant cage)
Male
Female
07. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :
(Mark "3" in the relevant cage)
Yes
No
08. Marital Status :––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination (Science subject
only) (please attach copy of mark list) :–
District from which you registered for examination :–––.
Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––.
Z Score :––––––––.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
(b) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - First sitting :
Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination - Second sitting :
Year :––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
10. Have you been convicted by a court of law for any charge ?
(Mark "3" in the relevant cage) Y es
No
If "yes" please furnish details :––––––––––.
11. Certificate of applicant. :
(a) I do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to my knowledge
and I am not undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqulified
before selection and to dismissal without compensation if
the inaccuracy is discovered after the selection.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Attestation :
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. .............
is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in
my presence on this day ................. of ........... 2010.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :––––––––––.
Details of Attester :
Full Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(With official seal)
11–311
–––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  AND  PLANNING
Sri Lanka Customs Department
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF INSPECTOR OF
CUSTOMS, GRADE II OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS
DEPARTMENT – 2010
THE Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Posts of
Inspector of Customs, Grade II of the Sri Lanka Customs Department
will be held only in Colombo by the Commissioner General of
Examinations in January, 2011. The date of the examination will be
notified in due course through the newspapers. Sri Lanka Customs
Department reserves the right of postponing or canceling this
examination.
Applications are invited for these posts from both sexes
possessing the qualifications given below :
02. Eligibility :–
(i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the fact
that he/she :
(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) is of excellent moral character ;

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2145
(c) is not less than 18 years and not moer than 24 years of
age on the date of closing of applications.
(ii) Physical Requirements.– In the case of males, their height
should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and chest not less
than 33 inches (when expanded).
In the case of females their height should not be less than 5
feet 3 inches.
(iii) Educational qualifications.– The candidates must posses
the following educational qualifications :–
(a) Pass three main subjects in one sitting at the General
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) ;
and
(b) Pass within two sittings Six subjects at the General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) with five
credit passes including credit passes for Sinhala
Language or Tamil Language and Mathematics as main
subjects and least a simple pass for English Language.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale attached
to the post is as follows :–
Rs. 14,280 - 145 x 7 - 180 x 10 - 240 x 17 - Rs. 21,175.
(Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV) R-S-1-
2006).
(ii) The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'/Widowers' and
Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(iii) Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a
probationary period of three years with effect from the
date of appointment.
(iv) The appointees must undergo a medical examination held
by a Government Medical Officer to test whether they
are physically fit to serve in any part of the island.
(v) The appointees are bound to serve day and night on any
part of the island.
(vi) The attention is invited to the General Conditions
applicable to the posts in Public Service which have
been published at the beginning of Part I : Section (IIA)
of the Government Gazette Notification.
04. Scheme of Examination. – There are following three (03)
question papers for the scheme of examination for recruitment :–
Marks
01. Aptitude Test (01 hour) 100
02. Mathematics (01 hour) 100
03. English Language (01 1/2 hours)
100
Total 300
===
Aptitude Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test the
language skills, the ability in logical reasoning.
Mathematics Paper.– This paper will consist of questions to test
the ability in mathematics.
English Language Paper .– It is prepared to test the reading,
writing, comprehension and communication skills of the candidates.
Note.– (i) This examination will be conducted in all the three
media Sinhala, Tamil  and English. Candidates
should sit this examination in the same language
medium in which they passed the qualifying
examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) of the
this notification (i. e. Sinhala or Tamil or English).
However, a candidate who has passed the
quailfying examination sitting it in Tamil or English
medium or a candidate who was educated in Tamil
or English medium may answer in Sinhala medium
at the Examination if he desires. It is not permitted
to change the applied language medium
subsequently.
(ii) Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and
wrong spelling. Candidates whose handwriting is
illegible are liable to be disqualified.
(iii) Admission cards of the examination will be sent
to the eligible candidates by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. But the receipt of an
admission card must not be treated as a fulfillment
of qualifications to sit the examination. The
candidates are bound by rules and regulations of
the Commissioner General of Examinations and
if the candidates breach such rules and regulations
they would have to face the punishment imposed
by him.
(iii) Evaluation : Marks of 60% or above for each
question paper will be totaled and such candidates
will be called for the structured interview on the
descending order of totals according to the
prevailing number of vacancies. Maximum of 10
marks will be awarded for the sports talents at
the structured interview. And then will be referred
to a general interview in which no marks will be
awarded and will consider only the marks obtained
at the written examination and the structured
interview.
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview :
Marks for individual sports at the zonal level : 3 marks for
the first place, 2 marks for the second place and 1 mark
for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the district level : 4 marks
for the first place, 3 marks for the second place and 2
marks for the third place.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2146
Marks for individual sports at the national level : 5 marks
for the first place, 4 marks for the second place and 3
marks for the third place.
05. Basic of selection .– Candidates who are successful at the
written examination and the interview willbe selected for conferment
of appointments. 10% of the number of vacancies will be reserved
for female candidates.
Note.– The nature of the work in customs department is such
that even the female staff has to work the night duties.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should have
fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of closing applications
for the examination.
07. Method of application :–
(i) A specimen form of the application has been given at
the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare
their application forms themselves in the medium on
which they intend to sit the examination conforming to
the specimen form referred to above and fill them in
their own handwriting. Every cage of the application
must be filled by the candidates as instructed and if
there are cages not applicable, the words "not
applicable" should be entered in such cages. It must be
noted strictly that leaving blank cages in the application
will cause the applications liable to be rejected. (Heading
numbers 01 to 06 of the specimen form should be on
the first page, 07 to 11 in the second page, and the rest
in the third page of the application that needs to be
prepared in A4 size papers.) The title of the examination
should be in English as well in Sinhala and Tamil
applications.
(ii) Applications must be sent under registered post on or
before 15th December, 2010 to Commissioner General
of Examinations, Department of Examinations,
Organizing and foreign examinations branch, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla. Any applications received after the due
date will be rejected. The name of the examination should
be written clearly on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed.
(iii) Examination fee of Rs. 400 may be paid at any District/
Divisional Secretariat office to the credit of revenue
Head Number 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The receipt must be attached to the
application and it is advised to retain a photocopy of
the receipt with the candidate. This fee will not be
refunded under any circumstances.
(iv) Candidates who are already employed in Government
Departments/Boards/Corporations must forward their
applications through the Heads of their Departments
or Institutions in which they are serving at present.
Candidates are requested to forward their applications
to heads of their Departments or Institutions well in
time with a request that they be transmitted to the
Commissioner General of Examinations so as to reach
him on or before 15.12.2010.
The applications should not be sent addressed
personally to the Director General of Customs or any
other officer of the Department. Applications received
after the due date, even if they are forwarded by the
departments will be rejected.
If the attestation of the signature of an applicant who
is in Government Service does not bear the signature
and the official seal of the Head of Department/Head
of the institution, such applications will be rejected.
(v) Attestation.– The signature of an applicant who is in
Government Service should be attested by his/her Head
of Department or by an officer authorized to do so on
his behalf.
The signature of other applicants should be attested
by a person authorized to do so, i. e., a Justice of the
Peace, a Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, a
Notary Public, a Principal of a Government or a
Director Managed School, a Commissioned Officer of
the Navy, Air Force or Army, a permanent Government
Officer drawing an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or
over, a Chief Incumbent or a Head of a Buddhist temple,
any other religion in charge of a place of worship or
holding a position of importance.
08. Admission to the Examination.– The Commissioner General
of Examinations will send admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been accepted. Candidates presenting themselves
for the examination must produce their admission cards with duly
attested signature to the Supervisor of the Examination Hall. A
candidate who fails to produce such a card will be refused admission
to the examination.
A candidate must sit the examination at the very examination hall
assigned to him/her. A candidate presenting himself/herself at an
examination hall other than the one assigned to him/her will not be
allowed to sit the examination. Every candidate presenting himself/
herself for the exmination must handover his/her admission card to
the Supervisor on the day of the examination itself.
The rules for candidates are given separately in Part I : Section
(IIA) of this Gazette Notification. Candidates will be bound to observe
these rules.
The Department of Examinations notifies in the newspapers the
issuance of admission cards immediately after their issuance. If a
candidate does not receive his/her admission card within two or three
days after the newspaper notice, he/she should so inform Department
of Examinations as mentioned in the newspaper notice.
You may inform the Department of Examinations after retaining
- a certified photocopy of the application, a certified photocopy of
paid receipt, registered post receipt, letter of request with the fax
number to dispatch the admission card if in an area outside Colombo.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2147
09. Identity Cards.– Candidates will be required to prove their
identity. Any of the following documents will be accepted for this
purpose :
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport issued not more than five years before
the date of examination.
The candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a document
referred to above is liable to be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Documents of Eligibility :–
(i) No documents other than the receipt of examination fee
should be forwarded with the application. But the
necessary particulars should be provided in the form, as
prescribed. An application which is not completed
conforming to these requirements will be judged on its
own merits and may be rejected.
(ii) Candidates, who have qualified to be called for the
interview, should prove their eligibility by producing
documentary proof.
(iii) The originals of the following documents will be required.
(iii) ( a) A certificate of moral character signed by a responsible
person.
Note.– The certificate of character may be obtained from a
Justice of the Peace, Attorney-at-Law, Divisional
Secretary of the area of residence, or a permanent
Government Officer in receipt of an annual consolidated
salary of Rs. 240,360 or over or some person whose
name is known and to whom reference can be readily
made. The designation, name and address of the person
who issues the certificate must be clearly indicated on
the certificate.
Candidates holding permanent posts in Government service
will not be required to furnish certificates of moral
character.
(iii) ( b) A certified copy of the entry of the registration of
the birth of candidate or a Special Certificate of age
issued by the Register General (in the case of candidates
whose birth has been not registered).
Note.– (i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school
or educational purposes, or a certified extract from
the birth registration entry will not be accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be
accepted as substitutes for Birth Certificates.
If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate
differs/differ from the name/names which the
candidate generally uses and under which the
candidate sits the examination, action should be
taken immediately in terms of Section 27 or 28 as
the case may be, of the Birth and Deaths
Registration Act, (Chapter 110) to get the name in
the entry of the registration of birth amended.
(iii) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to
citizenship by descent (where applicable).
(iv) Original certificate of educational qualifications
or where the certificate has not been issued, other
official documents.
(v) Documentary proof of achievements of sports at
Zonal/District/National Levels.
(vi) Candidates are warned to have all the necessary
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding
the application. Any candidate who fails to
produce the necessary documents or who delays
in producing them when called for will be made
disqualified for appointment to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars.– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this examination,
his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to,
during or after the examination.
If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be
false to best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed
any material fact, or if it is proved, at any time during the period of
his/her service that he/she was ineligible to sit the examination, he/
she will be liable to immediate dismissal from the service. The
candidature of those who do not strictly conform to the requirements
laid down in this notification will be cancelled.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt
with at the discretion of the Director General of Customs.
Director General of Customs,
Sri Lanka Customs Department,
Customs House,
Bristol Street, Colombo 01.
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
SRI LANKA CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT
TO THE POSTS OF INSPECTOR OF CUSTOMS, GRADE II OF
SRI LANKA CUSTOMS DEP ARTMENT – 2010
(For office use only)
Medium in which you sit this examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number inside the box).
01. Name of the applicant :
1.1 Name with initials at the end (English capital letters) :
Ex. SILV A, B. A. :–––––––––.
1.2 Name with initials (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'12
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.11.2010
2148
1.3 Names denoted by initials :
(English capital letters) :–––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address :
(English capital letters) :–––––––––.
Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :––––––.
03. Particulars of the National Identity Card :
3.1 Number of the Identity Card :
3.2 Date of issue :
04. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number inside the box).
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka ?
By descent - 1
By registration - 2
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
06. Ethnicity :
Sinhalese - 1 Ceylon Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3 Muslim - 4
Burgher - 5 Other - 6
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. ( a) Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
(b)  Age on the closing date of application :
Years Months Days
08. Physical requirements :
(i) Height : feet inches
(ii) Chest (when expanded) inches
(Only for male candidates)
09. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the Court of
Law ? (Yes/No)
If yes, give details :––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
(i) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) in one
sitting :
Year of examination :–––––––––.
Index Number :–––––––––.
Subjects Performance Subjects Performance
(ii) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) :
Subjects Performance Index Number Year
(iii) Have you obtained a simple pass for English Language at
the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) ?
(Yes/No.)
11. Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
District/Divisional Secretariat Office : Date :
Receipt Number :
(These particulars should be given compulsorily).
12. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification :
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance
after selection. Furthermore, I would abide by rules and
regulations of the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the conducting of the examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
13. Attestation of Applicant’s signature (Delete whichever
inapplicable) :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. .............. who is submitting this
application is personally known to me/is an employee of this
Department/Board/Corporation, he/she has paid the due
examination fee and has attached the paid receipt, and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on this ......... day of
......... 2010.
In the event of his/her selection for the appointment of Inspector
of Customs, Grade II he/she can be released from this Department/
Board/Corporation.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Attestor.
Full Name of Attestor :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– The attestation should be made by a person referred to in
Paragraph 7(v) of the Gazette Notification.
11–367
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.