

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 17]
————————
Presented by Hon. J. M. Ananda Kumarasiri, M. P. for Monaragala District
on 03rd November, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on October 19, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10. 00
2-2d
2-
RAVICHANDRA FOUNDATION
 (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Ravichandra Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Preamble.
Short title.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RAVICHANDRA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Ravichandra Foundation” has heretofore been formed in
Colombo for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting the objects and matters connected with the said
Association according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Ravichandra Foundation  has
heretofore successfully carried out and transacted the several
objects and matters for which it was established and has
applied to be incorporated and it will be for the public
advantage to grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Ravichandra Foundation” or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “ Ravichandra Foundation ” (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name may sue,
and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to assist the relevant authorities in promoting and
nurturing our national heritage and unique cultures;
Incorporation
of the
Ravichandra
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to assist the relevant authorities that promote
creation and protection of innovative products by
furthering 3.( a) above and in generating of self
employment;
(c) to assist the relevant authorities to create business
opportunities to market products that protect and
promote our culture, secure a reasonable price for
their products and protect their professions;
(d) to assist the relevant authorities to protect national
arts and culture for posterity and creating business
opportunities for the sale of such products;
(e) to promote economic development by assisting the
relevant authorities to implement agricultural
projects such as promotion of usage of organic
fertilizer;
(f) to assist the relevant authorities in providing relief
to those affected by natural disasters;
(g) to assist the relevant authorities in the private,
public and NGO sector to uplift educational, health
and economic standards of the underprivileged
persons in the nation;
(h) to assist the relevant authorities to provide financial
and other assistance to underprivileged students;
(i) to assist the relevant authorities to establish and or
maintain vocational/technical educational
institutes for underprivileged students and assist
them to complete the courses;
(j) to assist the relevant authorities to establish and
maintain organizations that foster love and provide
protection and covering to handicapped and
destitute children;
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(k) to assist the relevant authorities that promote a
clean environment for a healthy lifestyle;
(l) to assist the relevant authorities to promote
sustainable development in the country by
providing assistance and opportunities to the under
privileged and unemployed persons secure
employment and uplift their standards of living;
(m) to assist the relevant authorities to organize free
medical camps and clinics and distribution of free
medicine to the needy and underprivileged persons;
(n) to assist the relevant authorities which collaborate
with foreign parties and organizations for the
provisions of assistance for underprivileged persons
of Sri Lanka;
(o) to promote, arrange and organize exhibitions,
lectures, discussions, workshops, panel discussion
and other similar activities and to print, publish and
distribute books, journals, bulletins etc. with a view
to promoting the objectives of the Corporatoin; and
(p) to do all such other acts as may be necessary for the
carrying out of all or any of the aforesaid objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts to borrow or raise money with or without security
to receive or collect grants, donations, to invest its funds,  to
erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage employ dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
30
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting
of a Chairman, Vice Chairman, Managing Director, Secretary
and Treasurer and a maximum of seven other Directors
elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Directors of the  Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of the Association
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act. Such Board shall hold office
until a Board of Directors is elected in accordance with the
rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of votes of
not less than two-thirds of the members present, to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters and
any matter in relation to the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and accomplishment of its objects:—
(a) the classification of members and membership fees,
their admission, withdrawal, or expulsion from
membership;
(b) the election of the members to the Board of Directors
and their powers and duties;
(c) the election of office bearers, their term of office,
resignation from, vacation of or removal from office
and their powers and duties;
(d) the procedure to be followed in the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council, the quorum
therefore and the conduct of business thereat;
Rules of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
30
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, including funds;
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gifts,
bequests, donations, subscription, testamentary dispositions,
fees, grants for donations or contributions in cash or kind
from local or foreign institutions and individuals, members
and non-members.
(2) All monies received shall be deposited in the name of
the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in any
suitable manner as the Board shall determine.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performances and dischage of its powers, duties
and functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the
Funds of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscription and contribution payable to the
Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
9. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation
or for any other purpose be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as
membership fees.
Funds of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Debts due by
and payable
to the fund.
25

<!-- page 7 -->

Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
20
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition, trust or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same, and in the case
of a trust, the Corporation shall deal with it in the manner
provided for  by the trust.
11. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be fixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence, and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Ravichandra Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .