

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1635$16 - 2010 ckjdß 05 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2010'01'05
No. 1635/16  -  TUESDAY ,  JANUARY  05,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations &c., by the President
1A
A  PROCLAMATION  BY   HIS  EXCELLENCY  THE  PRESIDENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
 SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF SRI LANKA
East  Humanitarian  Operation  Medal  and  Clasp
MAHINDA RAJAPAKSA
TO all to whom these presents shall come, I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, Head of the State, Head of the Executive and of the Government, and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed
Services.
Send Greetings :
Whereas, I am desirous of awarding a Medal and a Clasp to reward all ranks of the Regular and V olunteer Force
of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Police and any other person who were participants of the EAST HUMANITARIAN
OPERATION  which was launched to liberate the Eastern Region of Sri Lanka.
Wherefore, I am pleased to make, ordain and establish the following Rules and Regulations for governance
of the same, which shall henceforth be inviolably kept :—
FIRSTLY
Style and Designation .  — It is ordained that the Medal and the Clasp shall be styled and designated the
EAST  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL  AND  CLASP.
SECONDLY
Description .  — It is ordained that the medal shall be of silver gilt and circular in shape bearing in relief
on the obverse in the top most centre comprising of the National Emblem of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka and below this a replica of the Mavilaru sluice along with the legend “Manushikathwaya” in Sinhala language shall
be depicted and the whole surrounded by lotus petals with the suspension bearing a design created by using “Waka Deka”
motif. On the reverse in the top most centre in relief the Crest of the Sri Lanka Army, on the right the Crest of the Sri Lanka
Navy, on the left  the Crest of the Sri Lanka Air Force, below this within the design created the legend “Manushikathwaya”
in Sinhala language, with the dates 28.07.2006 —10.07.2007 the period of which the East Humanitarian Operation lasted and
around this the phrase “East Humanitarian Operation” in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages shall be depicted and the
whole surrounded by lotus petals with the suspension bearing  a design created by using “Waka Deka” motif.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
 Seal

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
2A
THIRDLY
Ribbon. — It is ordained that the medal shall be worn on the left breast suspended from a ribbon of  3.1 cm in width
and 5cm in length which shall be a dark blue stripe of 0.3 cm in width representing the Sri Lanka Navy,  a Yellow stripe
of  0.7 cm  in width representing the flag of the Eastern Province, a saffron stripe of  0.3 cm in width representing the Sri Lanka
Army, a dark blue stripe of  0.7 cm in width representing the flag of the Eastern Province and a light blue stripe of  0.3 cm
in width representing the Sri Lanka Air Force, in that order with two brown stripes of 0.4 cm in width at the edges
representing the flag of the Eastern Province.
FOURTHLY
Eligibility
MEDAL.— It is ordained that the decoration shall be awarded to the Minister of Defence, Deputy  Minister of
Defence, Secretary Defence, Service Commanders, Inspector General of Police, all Military Personnel on active service along
with civilian doctors and their staff, Police personnel, civilians who were employed by the services and took part actively in
the execution of the East Humanitarian Operation during the period of  28 July, 2006 to 10 July, 2007, subject to the conditions
laid down in the regulations hereinafter made.
C
LASP.—  It is ordained that the clasp shall be awarded to the, Minister of Defence, Deputy Minister of Defence,
Secretary Defence, Service  Commanders, Inspector General of Police and Military Personnel subject to the conditions laid
down in the regulations hereinafter made.
FIFTHLY
Registration.—  It is ordained that the names of all those to whom the Medal or Clasp is awarded shall be published
in the respective Service Orders and a register of such names shall be maintained under the direction of the respective
Service Commanders, in respect of Police personnel register of such names shall be maintained under the Direction of the
Inspector-General of Police and   in respect of civilians such names to be maintained under the direction of Ministry of
Defence.
SIXTHLY
Order of  Wear.—  It is ordained that in the official list showing the order in which Orders Decorations and Medal
are to be worn, the EAST  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL  AND  CLASP shall be  worn immediately after the
DESHA  PUTRA    SAMMANAYA.
SEVENTHLY
Miniatures.—  It is ordained that reproductions in miniature known as miniature Medal ; which may be worn on
certain occasions by those to whom the Medal is awarded, shall be approximately half the size of the award and a sealed
pattern of the miniature Medal shall be kept in the Headquarters of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Police.
EIGHTHLY
Forfeiture and Restoration. — It is ordained that the President may cancel and annul the award of the Medal
or the Clasp to any person but it shall be competent for him to restore an award so forfeited under the Regulations
hereinafter made. The notice of cancellation or restoration in every case shall be published in the respective service orders.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
3A
Given at President’s House under the public seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 17th day
of  December, Two Thousand and Nine in the Thirty First year of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
By His Excellency’s command,
LALITH WEERATHUNGE,
Secretary to the President.
EAST  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL  AND  CLASP
REGULATIONS made by the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to grant forfeit restore and
other matters in amplification of the provisions set out in the Presidential Warrant.
By His Excellency’s command,
LALITH WEERA THUNGE,
Secretary to the President.
Office of  Secretary to the President,
Colombo,
17th December, 2009.
East  Humanitarian  Operation  Medal  and  Clasp
1. The EAST HUMANITARIAN OPERATION MEDAL   AND CLASP shall be awarded as follows :–
(a) The Medal shall be awarded to—
(i) the Minister of Defence, the Deputy Minister of Defence, the Secretary Defence, Service
Commanders and the Inspector General of Police by virtue of their appointments.
(ii) all  Military personnel who were on Active Service during the specified period and have been recommended
by the Commander of the Army, Commander of the Navy and the Commander of the Air Force.
(b) The Medal may also be awarded to—
(i) Police personnel who served in the Eastern Region during the specified period and recommended by the
Inspector General of Police.
(ii) Civilians employed by the Services who served in the Eastern Region during the specified period and
have been recommended by the relevant authority.
(iii) Civilian doctors and their staff employed by the Services who were physically present in the Eastern
Region for a minimum period of 07 days during the specified period and have been recommended by the
relevant authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
4A
(c) The Clasp shall be awarded to—
(i) The Minister of Defence, the Deputy Minister of Defence, the Secretary   Defence, Service Commanders
and Inspector General of Police by virtue of their appointments.
(ii) All military personnel who have taken part in Combat, Fire Support, Logistics, Medical, Planning,
Direction or any other combined activities during the EAST HUMANITARIAN OPERATION in the
Eastern Region as per the operation orders for not less than 30 days during the specified period. In the
case of Combat casualties of the Army, Navy, and Air Force the time stipulation of 30 days is not
applicable  provided however that the person became a casualty within the specified period.
(iii) In the case of Air Force and Navy Personnel who were physically not present in Eastern Region ; the
period to be decided by the respective Service Commanders and be restricted to combat or logistics
flying of Air Force personnel and operation and logistics sailing  by Naval personnel.
2. The under mentioned categories of Military Personnel shall not be eligible for the Medal or the Clasp :—
(a) Military personnel who were  undergoing basic training during the specified period.
(b) Those who  were absent without leave or deserted the Services during the specified period.
(c) Those who have malingered caused self inflicted injuries and deliberately avoided duties during the specified
period.
3. The award may be made posthumously and received by the lawful next-of-kin of the recipient or by a
person nominated by the next-of-kin.
4. Every recommendation shall include the Number, Rank and Name in full of the person recommended together
with all relevant details.
5. The names of persons upon whom the Medal and the Clasp are conferred shall be published in the respective
Service Orders. Register of all such recipients shall be maintained with regard to Military personnel under the direction
of the respective Service Commanders, and in the case of Police personnel under the direction of Inspector General of
Police and in the case of civilians under the direction of Ministry of Defence.
6.  Any officer of the Army, Navy and Air Force who is cashiered, dismissed or has been called upon to resign
or retire his Commission, in the Army, Navy or Air Force shall forfeit the Medal and the Clasp conferred on him unless
His Excellency the President shall direct otherwise.
7. Every soldier, seaman, and airman who has been discharged from the Army, Navy and Air Force with disgrace
or with ignominy shall forfeit the Medal and the Clasp unless His Excellency the President shall direct otherwise.
8.  When a person who is a recipient of the Medal and Clasp is convicted of an offence of the following nature, that is
to say  treason, sedition, mutiny, cowardice, desertion of disgraceful conduct of an unnatural kind or is dismissed or
discharged or who is called upon to resign his Commission by His Excellency the President for misconduct or who whilst
subject to Military, Naval or Air Force Law, is convicted by the civil power, shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless His
Excellency the President shall direct otherwise.
9. A Medal or the Clasp forfeited by any person may be restored by His Excellency the President at his discretion.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
5A
10. A notice of forfeiture or restoration shall in every case be published in the respective Service Orders.
11. When a Medal or the Clasp has been lost and it is desirous to replace it, such a loss should be reported to
the Police. A declaration testified by a  Justice of the Peace stating the circumstances  under which the loss occurred
should be submitted with a complaint made to the Police. This declaration shall be forwarded to the Commanding Officer
who will transmit it to the respective Service Commander through the usual channel of communication. The Medal
and the Clasp lost therewith will be replaced on payment if the explanation as to the loss is considered satisfactory.
In respect of Police personnel the declaration shall be forwarded to the Inspector General of Police and in respect of
civilians and civil doctors such declaration shall be forwarded to the Ministry of Defence.
12. In those Regulations—
(a) “Services” means - The Sri Lanka Army,
The Sri Lanka Navy,  and
The Sri Lanka Air Force.
(b) “Service Commanders” means - The Commander of the Army,
The Commander of the Navy,  and
The Commander of the Air Force
(c) “Military Personnel” means - Army, Navy and Air Force personnel
(d) “Army” means - The Sri Lanka Army
(e) “Navy” means - The Sri Lanka Navy
(f) “Air Force” means - The Sri Lanka Air Force
(g) “Police” means - The Sri Lanka Police
(h) “Soldier” means - Male/Female Soldier
(i) “Seaman” means - Also includes a woman Sailor
(j) “Airman” means - Also includes an  Air Woman
(k) “Relevant Authority” means - Chief of Defence Staff
(l) “Police Personnel” means - Also includes a  Police Woman
(m) “Specified Period” means - 28th July, 2006 to 10th July, 2007.
4 - G 12288

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
6A
EAST  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL  AND  CLASP
01-556/1


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
7A
PROCLAMATION
NORTH  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL  AND  CLASP
TO all to whom these presents shall come, I, Mahinda Rajapakse, the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, Head of the State, Head of the Executive and of the Government, and the Commander-in-Chief of the
Armed Services.
Send Greetings :
Whereas, I am desirous of awarding a Medal and a Clasp to reward all ranks of the Regular and V olunteer Force
of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Police and any other person who were participants of the NORTH HUMANITARIAN
OPERATION which was launched to liberate the Northern Region of Sri Lanka.
Wherefore, I am pleased to make, ordain and establish the following Rules and Regulations for governance of the
same, which shall henceforth be inviolably kept :-
FIRSTLY
Style and Designation.  — It is ordained that the Medal and the Clasp shall be styled and designated the
NORTH  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL   AND  CLASP.
SECONDLY
Description. — It is ordained that the medal shall be of silver gilt and circular in shape bearing in relief on the
obverse in the centre comprising of the Sovereign’s symbolic Heraldic Lion depicted along  with the legend ‘Abhimanaya’
in Sinhala language on a submerged map of Sri Lanka surrounded by a motif of circles (ARIMBU) as the whole surrounded
by a sheaf of paddy designed by using “Waka Deka” motif. On the reverse in the centre in relief the legend ‘Abhimanaya’
in Sinhala language below the National Emblem of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka along with the dates
26.02.2007 —18.05.2009 the period of which the Humanitarian Operation lasted and the phrase “North Humanitarian
Operation” shall be depicted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages on the circumference surrounded by motif of
circles (ARIMBU) and the whole surrounded  by a sheaf of paddy designed by using ‘Waka Deka’ motif.
THIRDLY
Ribbon. — It is ordained that the Medal shall be worn on the left breast suspended from a ribbon of  3  cm  in width and
5 cm in length which shall be comprised with, a dark blue stripe, a red stripe, an orange stripe and a green stripe representing
colours of the flag of the Northern Province,  in that order each of  0.75 cm in width.
FOURTHLY
Eligibility :
Medal.—  It is ordained that the decoration shall be awarded to the Minister of Defence, Deputy  Minister of
Defence, Secretary Defence, Service Commanders, Inspector General of Police and  all Military Personnel on active service
along with civilian doctors and their staff, Police personnel, civilians who were employed by the services and took part
actively in the execution of the NORTH  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION during the period of 26th  February, 2007 to 18th
May, 2009, subject to the conditions  laid down in the regulations hereinafter made.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
8A
Clasp.—  It is ordained that the clasp shall be awarded to the Minister of Defence, Deputy Minister of Defence,
Secretary Defence, Service Commanders, Inspector General of Police and Military Personnel subject to the conditions
laid down in the regulations hereinafter made.
FIFTHLY
Registration.— It is ordained that the names of all those to whom the Medal or Clasp is awarded shall be published in
the respective Service Orders and a register of such names shall be maintained under the direction of the respective Service
Commanders, in respect of Police personnel  register of such names shall be maintained under the direction of the
Inspector-General of Police and in respect of civilians such names to be maintained under the direction of Ministry of
Defence.
SIXTHLY
Order of Wear.—  It is ordained that in the official list showing the order in which Orders Decorations and Medal are
to be worn, the NORTH HUMANITARIAN OPERATION MEDAL AND CLASP shall be worn immediately after the
EAST HUMANITARIAN OPERATION MEDAL.
SEVENTHLY
Miniatures. - It is ordained that reproductions in miniature known as miniature Medal which may be worn on
certain occasions by those to whom the Medal is awarded, shall be approximately half the size of the award and a sealed
pattern of the miniature Medal shall be kept in the Headquarters of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Police.
EIGHTHLY
Forfeiture and Restoration . - It is ordained that the President may cancel and annul the award of the Medal or the
Clasp to any person but it shall be competent for him to restore an award so forfeited under the Regulations hereinafter made.
The notice of cancellation or restoration in every case shall be published in the respective service orders.
Given at President’s House under the public seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on this 17th day of
December, Two Thousand and Nine in the Thirty First year of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
By His Excellency’s Command,
LALITH WEERA THUNGE,
Secretary to the President.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
9A
NORTH   HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION   MEDAL   AND  CLASP
REGULATIONS made by the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to grant forfeit restore and other
matters in amplification of the provisions set out in the Presidential Warrant.
By His Excellency’s Command,
LALITH WEERATHUNGE,
Secretary to the President.
Office of the Secretary to the President,
Colombo,
17th December, 2009.
North   Humanitarian   Operation   Medal   and   Clasp
1. The NORTH  HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL  AND CLASP shall be awarded as follows:—
(a) The Medal shall be awarded to —
(i) The Minister of Defence, the Deputy Minister of Defence, the Secretary Defence, Service Commanders
and the Inspector General of Police by virtue of their appointments ;
(ii) All Military Personnel who were on Active Service during the specified period and have been recommended
by the Commander of the Army, Commander of the Navy and the Commander of the Air Force.
(b) The Medal may also be awarded to :
(i) Police personnel who served in the Northern Region during the specified period and recommended by
the Inspector General of Police ‘
(ii) Civilians employed by the Services who served in the Northern Region during the specified period and
have been recommended by the relevant authority ;
(iii) Civilian doctors and their staff employed by the Services who were physically available in the Northern
Region for a minimum period of  21  days during the specified period and have been recommended by the
relevant authority.
(c) The Clasp shall be awarded to —
(i) The Minister of Defence, the Deputy Minister of Defence, the Secretary  of  Defence, Service Commanders
and Inspector General of Police by virtue of their appointments ;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
10A
(ii) All military personnel who have taken part in Combat, Fire Support, Logistics, Medical, Planning, Direction
or any other combined activities during the NORTH HUMANITARIAN OPERATION in the Northern
Region and other areas  as per the operation orders for not less than 90 days during the specified period.
In the  case of Combat casualties of the Army, Navy and Air Force the time stipulation of 90 days is not
applicable  provided however that the person became a casualty within the specified period.
(iii) In the case of Air Force and Navy Personnel who were physically not available in Northern Region ; the
period to be decided by the respective Service Commanders and be restricted to combat or logistics
flying of Air Force personnel and operation and logistics sailing  by Naval personnel.
2. The under mentioned categories of Military Personnel shall not be eligible for the Medal or the Clasp :—
(a) Military personnel who were undergoing basic training during the specified period ;
(b) Those who  were absent without leave or deserted the Services during the specified period ;
(c) Those who have malingered caused self inflicted injuries and deliberately avoided duties during the specified
period.
3. The award may be made posthumously and received by the lawful next-of-kin of the recipient or by a person
nominated by the next-of-kin.
4. Every recommendation shall include the Number, Rank and Name in full of the person recommended together
with all relevant details.
5. The names of persons upon whom the Medal and the Clasp are conferred shall be published in the respective
Service Orders. Register of all such recipients shall be maintained with regard to Military personnel under the direction
of the respective Service Commanders, and in the case of Police personnel under the direction of Inspector General
of Police and in the case of civilians under the direction of Ministry of Defence.
6. Every  officer of the Army, Navy and Air Force who is cashiered, dismissed or  who has been called upon to resign
or  retire his Commission, in the Army, Navy or Air Force shall forfeit the Medal and the Clasp conferred on him unless
His Excellency the President shall direct  otherwise.
7. Every soldier, seaman, and airman who has been discharged from the Army, Navy and Air Force with disgrace
or with ignominy shall forfeit the Medal and the Clasp unless His Excellency the President shall direct otherwise.
8.  When a person who is a recipient of the Medal and Clasp is convicted of an offence of the following nature :  that
is to say,  treason, sedition, mutiny , cowardice, desertion or disgraceful conduct of an unnatural kind or is dismissed or
discharged or who is called upon to resign his Commission by His Excellency the President for misconduct or who whilst
subject to  Military, Naval or Air Force Law, is convicted by the civil power, shall forfeit the Medal conferred on him unless
His Excellency the President shall  direct otherwise.
9. A Medal or the Clasp forfeited by any person may be restored by His Excellency the President at his discretion.
10. A notice of forfeiture or restoration shall in every case be published in the respective Service Orders.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
11A
11. When a Medal or the Clasp has been lost and it is desirous to replace it, such  loss should be reported to the
Police. A declaration testified by a  Justice of the Peace stating the circumstances  under which the loss occurred should
be submitted with a complaint made to the Police. This declaration shall be forwarded to the Commanding Officer
who will transmit it to the respective Service Commander through the usual channel of communication. The Medal and the
Clasp lost therewith will be replaced on payment if the explanation as to the loss is considered satisfactory. In respect of
Police personnel the declaration shall be forwarded to the Inspector General of Police and in respect of  civilians and civil
doctors such declaration shall be forwarded to the Ministry of Defence.
12. In those Regulations—
(a) “Services” means - The Sri Lanka Army,
The Sri Lanka Navy and
The Sri Lanka Air Force,
(b) “Service  Commanders” means - The Commander of the Army,
The Commander of the Navy and
The Commander of the Air Force,
(c) “Military Personnel” means - Army, Navy and Air Force personnel,
(d) “Army” means - The Sri Lanka Army,
(e) “Navy” means - The Sri Lanka Navy,
(f) “Air Force” means - The Sri Lanka Air Force,
(g) “Police” means - The Sri Lanka Police,
(h) “Soldier” means - Male/Female Soldier,
(i) “Seaman” means - Also includes a  Woman Sailor,
(j) “Airman” means - Also includes an  Air Woman
(k) “Relevant Authority” means - Chief of Defence Staff,
(l) “Police Personnel” means - Also includes a Police Woman,
(m) “Specified Period” means - 26th February , 2007 to 18th May, 2009.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.01.2010
12A
NORTH   HUMANITARIAN  OPERATION  MEDAL  AND  CLASP
01-556/2
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
