

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2303
2303
wxl 1"941 - 2015 fkdjeïn¾ ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'11'13
No. 1,941 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 13, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2306
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2312
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th December, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
November, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”.
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  Appropriation (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplements to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of October 23, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2304
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2305
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2306
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR /VOLUNTEER  AIR  FORCE
AIRMEN /AIRWOMEN VACANCIES
VACANCIES exist in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force
for Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given below :
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
1. Aeronautical Engineering Trades (Male/Female) :
(a) Air Frame Mechanic,
(b) Aero Engine Mechanic,
(c) Aero Electrical and Instrument Mechanic,
(d) Safety Equipment Assistant.
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English Languages, Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for
Mathematics/Science is essential.
2. General Engineering Trades (Male) :
(a) Armament Mechanic
(b) Motor Transport Mechanic
(c) Air Craft Welder Assistant
(d) Surface Assistant
(e) Air Photographer
(f) General Mechanic
(g) Turner
(h) Sheet Metal Worker
(j) Carpenter Mechanic
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English Languages, Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for
Mathematics/Science will be an added qualification.
3. Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Radio Mechanic (Male)
(b) Telegraph Mechanic (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil,
English Languages, Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for
Mathematics/Science is essential.
(c) Telephonist (Male/Female)
(d) Air Communicator (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil
and English Languages.
4. Medical Trades :
(a) Nursing Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including simple pass in English Language
and credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil/Mathematics/Science and one
other subject. Having following passes at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination from Science/Maths Stream in one sitting will be added
advantage for selection and a qualification for advance training under
Ministry of Health Services mentioned therein.
Having credit pass for English in G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
with simple 03 passes for Bio/Maths/Agriculture streams
in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination - Nursing Diploma
Having credit pass for English in G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
with simple passes for Biology/Combined Maths/Physics/
Agriculture and credit pass for Chemistry - Pharmacist/
Medical Laboratory Technologist
Having credit pass for English in G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
with simple passes for Chemistry, Physics/Agriculture
and credit pass for Biology/Comined Maths - Public
Health Inspector, E.C.G./E.E.G . Technician, Opthalmic
Technologist.
Having credit pass for English in G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
with simple passes for Chemistry, Biology/Comined
Maths and credit pass for Physics - X Ray Technician/
Physiotherapist
5. Administrative Trades (Male/Female) :
(a) Administrative Assistant
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil and English Languages and a credit in Mathematics/Science/
Business and Account Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft
Office package) will be an added qualification.
(b) Accounts Assistant
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil and English Languages and a credit in Mathematics/Business
and Account Studies. Knoweldge on compters (Microsoft Office
package) will be an added qualification.
6. Operations Trades :
(a) Operations Air (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil Languages and a credit in English Language.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2307
(b) Fire Fighter (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil and English Languages.
(c) Operations Ground (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil Language.
7. Logistics Trades :
(a) Logistic Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil and English Languages and a credit in Mathematics/Science/
Business and Account Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft
Office package) will be an added qualification.
(b) Ground Steward (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language. Priority will be given to candidates who have an ordinary
pass for English or fluent in English language with communication
skill. Experience and professional qualification in field of hospitality
at Tourist Board Authorized Hotels ( Ex. : Waiter/Barman/House
Keeper/Room Boy/Room Attendance/Room Steward).
(c) Catering Assistance (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language.
(d) Uniform Out Fitter (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language. Operating of JUKI machine (Over lock, button hole,
Button attached, Double needle, Bar tack), cutting and designing of
graments without blocks and technical knowledge on JUKI machine
will be an added qualification.
(e) Cabin Attendance (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language and a credit in English language. Fluent in English language
with strong communication skill and having experience as a Cabin
Assistant with pleasing personality will be an added qualification.
Capable of reach to 212cm height by both hands (using toe).
7. Police Trade :
(a) Police (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil
and English Languages. Priority will be given to male and female
candidates those who measured 5'8"and 5'6" or above in height
respectively.
8. Musician Trades :
(a) Musician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil  Language.
Ability of singing and playing of musical instrument will be
considered as special qualification.
(b) Dancer (Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.
Ability for dancing, suitable figure for dancing, ability for singing,
playing dancing instruments and capability for make-up will be
considered as special qualification.
9. Physical Training Instructor (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language. Outstanding competencies in National Level sports will
be special qualification at selection. The practical test should pass
all the candidates who were passing the preliminary interviews.
Vacancies exist in the V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force
for Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given below :
2. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications required :
(1) Musician Trades
(a) Musician (Male)
Must be passed grade 8 minimum. Ability of singing
and playing of musical instrument is compulsory.
(b) Dancer (Female)
Must be passed grade 8 minimum. Ability for dancing
is compulsory, suitable figure for dancing, ability for
singing, playing dancing instruments and capability
for make-up will be considered as special qualification.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2308
3. Other Requirements. – Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer
Air Force :–
1. Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Age as at 15th February 2016
: Not less than 18 years and not more
than 23 years (Regular Male),
Not less than 18 years and not more
than 22 years (Regular Female),
Not less than 18 years and not more
than 25 years (V olunteer Male/Female)
3. Height : 5 feet 5 inches and above (Male) ;
5 feet 3 inches and above (Female)
4. Weight : 17< BMI < 26 (Male)
17<BMI <25 (Female)
Body Mass Index  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2 (m)
5. Vision Colour : CP 2
Standard
6. Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
7. Civil Status :
(a) Regular Airmen/Airwomen Candidates must be
unmarried and not allowed to marry until the
completion of two years from the date of enlistment
and until one year after the completion of the Basic
Trade Training Course and which ever is later).
(b) V olunteer Airmen/Airwomen candidates must be
unmarried and not allowed to marry until the
completion of one year from the date of enlistment
and until one year after the completion of the Basic
Trade Training Course and whichever is later.
(c) Dancer Trade Regular/V olunteer Airwomen is not
allowed to marry until the completion of five (5)
years from the date of enlistment.
4. Candidates who do not possess the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 “a” and
paragraph 02 “a” or paragraph 03 will be rejected. On arrival for the
first interview the height, weight and vision will be measured.
Candidates whose height, weight and vision is below the standard
specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional
skills will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a
special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the
Commander of the Air Force be considered even though he/she may
not have the requisite height provided he/she possess the requisite
academic and professional qualifications.
5. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
6. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force
Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with
effect from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the
selected trades accordingly. They will be required to
perform combat duties and any type of duty, day and
night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of
Sri Lanka or abroad.
7. Terms of Engagement :–
(a) Regular Airmen and Airwomen
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of
the rank of Aircraftsman/Aircraftwomen in the Regular
Air Force and shall be required to serve for twelve (12)
years in which eight (08) years will have to be served
continuously whilst serving a further four (04) years in
the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so.
Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to
extend for further service on completion of eight years of
service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri
Lanka Air Force.
(b) V olunteer Airmen and Airwomen
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of
the rank of Aircraftsman/Aircraftwomen in the Regular
Air Force and shall be required to serve for five (05)
years. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen
to extend for further service on completion of five (05)
years of service on the discretion of the Commander of
the Sri Lanka Air Force.
8. Official Language Requirements.–  The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
9. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen
shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - Rs. 173,100 - 6 x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320 - 3x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Corporal - Rs. 183,540 -10x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880
- Rs. 229,860 Per annum
Sergeant - Rs. 187,620 - 3 x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880 -
3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700 - 1x Rs. 2,040 - 9x
Rs. 2,880 - 3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2309
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500 - 7x Rs. 2,880 - 06x
Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 273,420 per annum
Master Warrant Officer - Rs. 223,500 - 13x Rs. 3,840
- Rs. 273,420 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to airmen increments in promotions will be
based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade
efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances - Rs. 7,800 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance - Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 3,900 per month for
those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance - I- Rs. 2,400 per month (Rs. 80 will
be paid per day).
(5) Special allowance - II - 20% of consolidated salary or
15% of consolidated salary + Rs. 750.
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 13,500 per month for living out
Airmen (free messing for living-in Airmen).
(8) Uniform upkeep allowance - Rs. 170 per month.
(9) Interim allowance - Rs. 1,000 per month.
(10) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(11) Travelling - Three sets of holiday railway warrants per
year (for Airmen/Airwomen/Wife/Husband and
Children as applicable). One set of railway warrants
per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in
Airmen).
(12) Disturbance allowance - When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(13) Qualification pay - For personnel who have qualified
in special courses or possess qualifications, which are
of special value to the service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month).
(14) Good conduct badge pay - Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 511.50 per month).
(15) Re-engagement pay - Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300
per month during the period of re-engagement.
(16) Medical facilities - Provided through Air Force expense
for Airmen/Airwomen and their married families.
(17) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T.
B. buses for living - out Airmen/Airwomen within a
radius of 30 miles (48km).
(18) Following rent allowance are payable to married
Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government
married quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(19) Instructional pay - (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(20) Other allowance - (separation and overseas etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(21) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended
from time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the
Widows’ and Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme
Regulations 1970).
(22) Budget interim allowance per month Rs. 10,000.
10. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own
handwriting in terms of the from specified below. All cages
of the application should be filled with much detail as
possible. Applications should be sent by registered post
addressed to “Command Recruiting Officer,  Sri Lanka Air
Force Trade Training School, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach there not later than 1200 noon on 30th November
2015. The envelope enclosing the application should be
marked “Application for Regular/V olunteer Airmen/
Airwomen” on the top left corner. Applications received
at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date
and time and not in accordance with the requirement of
this notification and not in registered post will not be
considered.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released
if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when interviews or called upon to
do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications
required.
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and/or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution will be an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the Principal of the last school

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2310
attended and the other from a responsible person
who has the know of the applicant for more than two
years or from the present employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and
cadeting etc.
(d) Application of candidates who fail to produce document
when required to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original documents or copies of document should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any
originals of certificates if enclosed with the application
form.
11. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed
individually of place, date and time.
12. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
with out the National Identity Card.
13. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to high marks merit at these interviews.
14. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqulaification
of such candidates.
15. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
16. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
GP B
ULATHSINGHALA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE
SRI  LANKA  AIR FORCE
1. Full Name :––––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
2. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
3. Applied Trade :–––––––––––––.
4. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
5. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
6. Nearest Air Force Station :–––––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. District :–––––––––––.
9. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
10. G.S. Division :–––––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
12. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
13. Age (as at 15th February 2016) :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
14. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
15. Gender :–––––––––––––.
16. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.
17. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––––.
(Eg.– Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
20. Details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :–––––––––––.
22. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give
details :–––––––––––.
23. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2311
––––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries.
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 14th of
December, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
29th of October, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Attanagalla Post of Muslim Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Thihariya Area in Siyane Koralaya General, District Secretariat, Gampaha.
West Division
11–372
24. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airmen/Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force
pubilshed in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
11–263

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2312
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE
Department of Agriculture
Amendment to the Gazette Notification Published on 30.10.2015
OPEN/LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE POSTS OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE - 2015
THE application for recruitment on limited basis was not published by an oversight in the Gazette Notification published in respect the
aforesaid examination in Part I : Sec. II(A) - Examinations, Results of Examinations & C., under the Notice No. 10-958 of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, October 30, 2015. The application is published below.
02. Accordingly, the date of closing application of this examination is 04.12.2015.
Dr. R. R. A. WIJEKOON,
Director General of Agriculture.
At the Department of Agriculture,
Peradeniya,
30th October, 2015.
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENTS TO GRADE III OF THE POSTS OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE - 2015
Medium of Examination : Sinhala - 02
Tamil - 03
English - 04 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination Centre
Colombo - 01
Kandy - 02 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Post/Posts applied for (Indicate in the order of priority)
* Agricultural Instructor - 01 Post/Posts applied for Post Number
* Research Assistant - 02 1.
2.
01. Name :
1.1 Full Name :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Eg. HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA
1.2 Name indicating the last name first and initials at the end :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) :–––––––––––––. (Eg. GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
1.5 Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2313
02. Permanent Address :
2.1 In English capital letters :–––––––––––––.
2.2 In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the Admission should be sent :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
2.4 District of Permanent Residence :–––––––––––––.
2.5 Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––––.
03. Gender : Female 1 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Male 0
04. 4.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.2 Age as at the Closing Date of Applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.3 Marital Status : Unmarried - 1
Married - 2                 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Educational Qualifications (with the medium) :
G . C. E. (O/L) : 1st sitting 2nd sitting
(i) Year and Month ....................... .......................
(ii) Index Number ....................... .......................
(iii) Medium ........ ............... .......................
(iv) Results :
First  sitting Second sitting
Subjects Pass Subjects Pass
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
06. ( a) Experience :
6.1 Present post :–––––––––––––.
6.2 Date of Appointment to the above post :–––––––––––––.
6.3 Date of confirmation in the above post :–––––––––––––.
6.4 Period of permanent and pensionable service :–––––––––––––.
6.5 Have all the salary increments been earned the period of 05 years immediately preceding as at 20th of November 2015.
06. ( b) Professional qualifications :
Name of the Diploma Name of the Institution Year passed Index No. Date of validity
awarded the Diploma

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'11'13
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.11.2015
2314
07. The Post/Sub Post Office to which the examination fee was paid :
07.1 Date of payment :–––––––––––––.
07.2 No. of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
07.3 Amount :–––––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee and so as to be unglued.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
08. I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination.
09. Declaration of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that, if an y
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to dismissa l without any
compensation if such detection is made after appointment. Further, I hereby declare that I am subject to the rules imposed in respect of this
examination and decisions taken in respect of releasing the results by the Commissioner General of Examinations. I also certify that only one
application is submitted for the posts applied by me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who submits this application is known to me personally
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .............................. and he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed
the receipt.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Please prove by the official seal)
11. Those who are already in the Public/Provincial Public Service (strike - off the words inapplicable) :
I hereby certify that the above applicant has/has not fulfilled the all requisite qualifications to appear in this examination as per this
Gazette Notification and he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt is affixed and he/she can/can’t be released from his/
her present post in this Department if he/she is selected.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of Head of the Department.
(Official seal).
Date :–––––––––––––.
11–403
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.