

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1837
1837
wxl 1"731 - 2011 fkdjeïn¾ ui 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'11'04
No. 1,731 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 04, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1840
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1842
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th November, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th
October, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,730 of 28.10.2011 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1838
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1839
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1840
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th Dec ember,
2011.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th October, 2011.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Puttalam Puttalam Post of Medical Registrar of Birth and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Deaths for Puttalam Town Division   General, District Secretariat Puttalam
11–66
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMPAHA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1841
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th day  of
December, 2011.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
17th October, 2011.
THE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Gampaha Kelaniya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  (Wedamulla-Wanawasala) area in Siyane   General, District Secretariat Gampaha
  Korale West Division
Gampaha Negombo Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Aluthkuru Koralaya and Births and Deaths   General, District Secretariat Gampaha
  of Kochchikade Division
11–65
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1842
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th Dec ember,
2011.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
12th October, 2011.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be Sent
Ampara Addalachchenai Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Konawatta Division (Tamil Medium)   General, District Secretariat, Ampara
Ampara Addalachchenai Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Oluvil Palamuna Division   General, District Secretariat, Ampara
(Tamil Medium)
11–40
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHER  EDUCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
ADMISSION  OF  STUDENTS  TO  THE  ADV ANCED  TECHNOLOGICAL  INSTITUTES
FOR  THE  ACADEMIC  YEAR  2012
APPLICATIONS are called for the Higher National Diploma conducted by  Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
(SLIATE) for those who have successfully completed the new or old syllabuses of the GCE (A/L) Examination in or before 2010.
How to apply.–  All duly filled applications prepared according to the specimen application form appeared below should be
directed to the relevant Advanced Technological Institute/Section mentioned in the Section "A", under a registered cover with a  receipt
obtained by crediting of Rs.350/-  to the SLIATE Account No. 025-100133397613 at People’s Bank, Park Street Branch (Colombo) or
any other branch of  the People’s Bank  in Sri Lanka. The "course applied" should be clearly stated on the top left hand corner  of the
envelope.
Candidates wish to apply for more than one institute should submit separate applications for each institute applied, while
attaching separate receipt worth Rs. 350/- for each of those. Applications of which the money is credited to some other account numbers
other than the account number mentioned above will be rejected.
The applications received after the closing date will not be entertained.
Addresses of the Advanced Technological Institutes/ATI Sections as well as the courses conducted of those are available in the
section ‘A’ and the applicants should select their academic programs from the list given in Section ‘B’ according to their qualifications.
Mode of Lectures :
Day/Full time Courses : During weekdays, daytime
Part Time Courses : During Week ends, day time
Part time courses are confined for those who employed in  relevant fields.
Course fees.–  No course fees are levied for Day Courses.  Course fees for Higher National Diploma in English part time
students will be Four Thousand Rupees (Rs. 4000/-) per a semester. Course fees per semester for 1st and 2nd year Higher Nationa l

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1843
Diploma in Accountancy part time students will be Two Thousand Rupees (Rs. 2000/-) per a semester  and course fees per a semest er
for the 3rd  &  4th Year Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part time students will be Three  Thousand Rupees (Rs. 3000/-) per a
semester  and it is subjected to be revised annually. Higher National Diploma in Information Technology  part time students wil l be Ten
Thousand Rupees (Rs. 10,000/-) per a semester.  (two semesters  per year)
Interview.– Short listed applicants will have to either sit for a written test and/or face an interview for the selections. The
Selections of students will be based basically on the Z-Score or the Aggregate marks of the Advanced Level Examination. Date, time and
venue of interview and the necessary documents to be submitted in the interview, will be notified in writing. When the original documents
are not available, certified photocopies will be accepted with the agreement of your submitting the originals at the time of registration for
the academic program.
Hostel Facilities.– Limited number of hostel facilities is available for girls in ATI  I Naiwala / Dehiwala and for girls as well as
boys In Hardy Ampara and Mattakkuliya ATI. This facility is only for the full time students .
Section "A"
Addresses, Telephone numbers & the Code Numbers of the Advanced Technological Institutes/A.T.I. Sections
Code Name of the ATI/ATI section Addresses T elephoneNo. Name of the courses conducted
No.
01 Advanced Technological No. 42, Rodrigo Place, 011-2529479 HNDE, HNDIT (FT), HNDQS, HNDBSE
Institute, Mattakkuliya Colombo 15 011-2521152
02 Advanced Technological W aidya Rd., Dehiwala. 011-2714270 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Dehiwala. 011-2738349 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HND in English
(FT), HND in English (PT), HNDBF,
HNDFT, HNDTHM
03 Galle Advanced Technological Siridamma Mw., 091-2227880 HNDE, HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),
Institute, Labuduwa Labuduwa, Akmeemana. 091-2246179 HNDM, HNDTHM, HNDBA, HNDIT
(FT), HNDIT (PT), HNDT (Agri), HND in
English (FT), HND in English (PT), HNDQS,
HNDBSE
04 Advanced Technological No. 16, Keppetipola Rd., 081-2226644 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT),  HNDM,
Institute, Kandy. Kandy . 081-2232097 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HND in English
(FT), HND in English (PT), HNDTHM
05 Advanced Technological No.22/1, Wilgoda Rd., 037-2224911 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDIT
Institute, Kurunegala. Kurunegala. 037-2229583  (FT), HND in English (FT), HND in English
(PT)
06 Advanced Technological Greenland Drive, Badulla. 055-2230218 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Badulla. 055-2223818 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT), HND
in English (FT), HND in English (PT),
HNDTHM
07 Advanced Technological No. 665/5,Beach  Rd., 021-2222595 HNDE, HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM,
Institute, Jaffna. Guru Nagar,Jaffna. 021-2239803 HNDBA, HNDIT (FT), HNDIT (PT), HND
in English (FT), HND in English (PT),
HNDTHM
08 Advanced Technological Naiwala, Essalla, 033-2287519 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Naiwala. V eyangoda. 033-2292544 HNDT (Agri), HNDFT
09 Hardy Advanced T echnological Inginiyagala Rd., 063-2222056 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDM, HNDIT
Institute, Ampara. Ampara. 063-2223035 (FT), HNDT (Agri), HND in English (FT),
HND in English (PT)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1844
10 Advanced Technological Kanniya Rd,Varodayanagar, 026-3262937 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute, Trincomalee. Trincomalee HND in English (FT), HND in English (PT)
11 Advanced Technological Bandaranayake Mawatha, 035-2221297 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HNDIT (FT),
Institute , Kegalle. Kegalle 035-2221713  HND in English (FT), HND in English (PT)
12 Advanced Technological Technical College, New 025-2234417 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Anuradhapura Town, Anuradhapura. (PT)
13 Advanced T echnological No 14,New Super Market, 045-2230780 HNDA (PT)
Institute Section, Rathnapura. Ratnapura.
14 Advanced Technological Main Street, Samanthurai. 067-2261304 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Samanthurai. (PT)
15 Advanced Technological Multi Purpose Building, 065-2247519 HNDA (FT), HNDA (PT), HND in English
Institute Section, Batticaloa Kovil Kulam East,  (PT)
Arayampathy
16 Advanced T echnological Zonal  Education Office, 047-2240267 HNDA (PT)
Institute Section,Tangalle. T angalle. 091-2246179
Note:-
1. The selected candidates should attend classes during weekdays as well as on certain days during weekends, if the
necessity arises.
2. Medium of instruction of the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy program (Day/Full time) is English Medium for
the first and second years and conducted only on weekdays. Third and fourth years of this academic program are
conducted in weekends and the medium of instructions of it is English.
3. The first and second years of the Higher National Diploma in Management (Day/Full time) course will be conducted
during daytime of the weekdays and the third year will be conducted during the weekend.
4. A pass in the General Paper is compulsory for the applicants qualified in the GCE (A/L) new syllabus.
5. It is considered the Z-Score or aggregate marks of the GCE (A/L) Examination as the selection criteria to select for each
and every academic program.
6. Preference will be given for the candidates passed in subjects or in the field relevant to the academic program.
7. For day courses, it will be given preference for those who are under 23 years.
8. If the number of applicants are less than 25, that program will not be conducted  in the particular ATI or ATI Section.
9. If the number of applicants exceeds the expected number of students, an aptitude test will be conducted in institutional
wise.
     10.  For whatever the reason no student will be transferred to any other Advanced Technological Institute after their selecting
for a full time course in particular ATI or ATI section.
Section "B "
01. Higher National Diploma in Engineering -  HNDE (Full Time) – 3 ½ years  (Civil/Electrical/Mechanical)
Higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying – (HNDQS) (Full Time) –    3  ½ years
Higher National Diploma in Building Services Engineering -˜   (HNDBSE)     (Full Time) -  3 ½ years
Applicants should have the followings:-
(i) G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) with three passes in Combined Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics in
one sitting.
AND
(ii) Ordinary pass in English Language at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
Code Name of the ATI/ATI section Addresses T elephoneNo. Name of the courses conducted
No.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1845
02. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA (Full Time)  -  4 years
Applicants should have one the followings:-
(i) Passes for all four subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) of which at least two should
be credit passes obtained at one sitting with Pure Mathematics or Accountancy as one of the subjects for which a
credit pass should have been obtained;
A credit pass in Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) is considered as an alternative for a credit  pass in either Pure
Mathematics or Accountancy at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
OR
(ii) Passes for three subjects in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination  (New syllabus)  with Combined   Mathematics
or Accountancy as one of the three subjects of which at least, two Credit passes  should have been obtained.
A credit pass in Mathematics at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination is considered as an alternative  for a credit  pass in
either Combined Mathematics or   Accountancy at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination.
OR
(iii) Holders of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical Education &
Training.
AND
(iv) Ordinary pass in English at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination
2.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy – HNDA (Part Time)  -  4 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :-
(i) Passes for all four subjects (Old syllabus)  / three subjects (New Syllabus)  in one  sitting at the  G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination.
OR
(ii) Completion of  National Certificate in Accounting Technician,  conducted by the    Department of   Technical
Education & Training.
OR
(iii) Completion of National Certificate in Business Studies (Accountancy Group)    conducted by the  Department
of Technical Education &  Training.  Successful completion of National Certificate in   Accounting conducted by
the   Department of Technical Education & Training.
AND
Practical Experience – Applicant should be employed in the relevant field    in a    Government institution / public
enterprises or a recognised firm.
Those who possess the following qualification will be exempted from the 1
st year and will be admitted to the 2nd
year when satisfying other entry requirements and availability of places.
(i) National Diploma in Business Studies/Business Finance /Business Administration
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Commerce/Management, second year.
(iii) B. Sc. (Business Administration) OR   B.Com   OR   B.Sc (Accountancy)
(iv) ICASL Part I and II
(v) CIMA Part I and II
(vi) AAT S tage III
03. Higher National Diploma in Management  – HNDM (Full Time) – 3 years
&
Higher National Diploma in Tourism & Hospitality Management – HNDTHM (Full Time) – 3 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Passes for all four subjects in one sitting  at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in all four subjects/ Passes
for all three subjects in one sitting G.C.E. (A/L)Examination (New syllabus), in any stream, with ordinary passes in
English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination,
OR
(ii) National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National Certificate in Business Studies (Public Administration/
Marketing) conducted by the Department of Technical Education & Training
AND
Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1846
04. Higher National Diploma in Business Administration – HNDBA  -
(Full Time) – 2 ½ years
Applicant should have one of the followings :
(i) Pass  at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) with Economics, Commerce & Finance and Accountancy
subjects or G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in any two of the above three subjects and a pass in one of the
following subjects : Political Science, Pure Mathematics, Geography, Sinhala, Tamil, English, Logic, History,
Business Statistics at the same Examination.
 OR
(ii) Pass at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in Economics, Business Studies and Accountancy or G .C.E.
(A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in any two of the above three subjects and a pass in Geography, Home
Economics, Political Science, Logic & Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science, Combined Mathematics and Business
Statistics at the same Examination.
 OR
(iii) Successful completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education & Training.
AND
 (iv) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
05. Higher National Diploma in Information Technology – HNDIT   -  (Full time – 3 years / Part time – 2 ½ years)
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Should have obtained four passes at G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) at one sitting
OR
(ii) Should have obtained three passes at G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) at one sitting
AND
(iii) Ordinary passes in English and mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
AND
Note :- (Only for part time students);  should have been employed in IT related field.
06. Higher National Diploma in Technology -HNDT (Agriculture) (Full Time) – 3 years
Applicants should have one of the followings :
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in Bio-Science stream at one
sitting, two of which should be out of the following subjects: Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Botany, Zoology and
Physics
OR
(ii) Should have obtained 3 passes at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in Bio Science stream at one sitting,
two of which should be out of the following subjects: Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Biology and Physics
AND
(iii) Ordinary pass for English and Mathematics at G .C.E. (O/L) Examination.
07. Higher National Diploma in English  (HND in English) – (Full time - 3 years /Part time -  2 ½ years)
Applicants should have one of the followings: -
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in four subjects with "C" pass in English Literature or English Language at
the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
OR

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1847
(ii) G.C.E .(A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in three  subjects with  ‘C’ pass in English Literature or English language
at the G .C.E. (O/L) Examination
OR
(iii) English specialist Teacher Training Certificate; or the Diploma offered by the College of Education
OR
(iv) G.C.E.(A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in three subjects and  a ‘C’ pass in General English at  G .C.E.(A/L)
Examination.
OR
(v) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in three subjects and  a pass at the National Certificate in English for
Commerce, Industry and further Education  Conducted by the Department of Technical Education &  Training or
equivalent Qualifications.
08. Higher National Diploma in Business Finance – HNDBF - (Full  Time) –  2 ½ years
Applicants should have one  the followings:
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) in four subjects including    Economics, Commerce & Finance, Accountancy
in one sitting;
OR
(ii) G .C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) in three subjects including Economics, Business Studies and Accounting
or any two of the above with one of the following subjects; Geography, Home Economics, Political Science, Logic
& Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science or Combined Mathematics in one sitting.
OR
(iii) Successful completion of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education &  Training.
AND
(iv) Ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
09. Higher National Diploma in Food Technology – HNDFT (Full Time) – 2 ½ years
Applicants should have the followings:
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) with three passes in Biological or Physical Science stream in one sitting
AND
(ii) Ordinary pass in English Language at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
Note :
1. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy  Certificate is validated by the circular No 46/90 (111) of  October
2008 as a alternative qualification to the Bachelors Degree in Commerce, (Ordinary Pass)  awarded by a  recognised
University.
2. Preference order of yours for the academic programs have to be indicated on your choice to be considered for the
admission based on your qualification.
Please note that the decision of the Director General SLIATE will be the final decision on the admission of
students to Advanced Technological Institute/ Sections for the academic year 2012.
Closing date of applications 25.11.2011.
Prof. K. K
APILA C.K. PERERA,
Director General ,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education.
No. 382, New Kandy Road,
Malabe
Web site : 
www.sliate.net

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1848
Office use only – Course Number …………
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL  EDUCATION
Application form for admission to Higher National Diploma Courses except Higher National Diploma in Engineering/
Quantity Surveying/Building Services Engineering
 Name of the Course Order of preference
1 ………………....…… ………….........………...
 2 ………………….…… ………………...………..
 3  …………………....…  …….……..…………...…    .
1. Name with Initials :–––––––––––.
2. Name/Names denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
3. Address :–––––––––––.
4. Date of Birth : Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––, Date :–––––––––––.
Age (as at 01.01.2011) :  Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
5. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
6. Sex : Male / Female :–––––––––––.
7. Administrative District :–––––––––––.  Contact Number  :–––––––––––.
8. (i) Result of GCE (A/L) Examination (In or Before 2010) :
Year:–––––––––––. Index No.  :–––––––––––.        Medium :–––––––––––.
Pass Subjects Grade
1. ……………………. …………….
2. ……………………. …………….
3. ……………………. …………….
4. ……………………. …………….
If under new syllabus indicate pass or fail in the general paper :–––––––––––.
Aggregate/Average marks or Z-Score of the above examination, issued by the Department of  Examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Result of GCE (O/L) Examination :-
Year:–––––––––––. Index No.  :–––––––––––.        Medium :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ……………………. ……………. 6.  ……………………. …………….
2. ……………………. ……………. 7. ……………………. …………….
3. ……………………. ……………. 8.  ……………………. …………….
4. ……………………. ……………. 9.  ……………………. …………….
5. ……………………. ……………. 10.  ……………………. …………….
9. Highest Qualification in English as a subject :–––––––––––.
10. Details of Occupation:–––––––––––.            Date of Appointment :–––––––––––.
(only for Part time/Weekend Courses)
Post  :–––––––––––.
E.P .F. Number :–––––––––––.
Place of work and Address :–––––––––––.
I hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution.  I am aware that m y
registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full time course at any other
state institution. I hereby certify that the information furnished here is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs.350/= payable to SLIATE should be annexed.)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1849
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED TECHNOLOGICAL EDUCATION (SLIATE)
Admission of students to the Higher National Diploma in Engineering (HNDE) /  Higher National Diploma in Quantity
Surveying / Higher National Diploma in Building Services Engineering Courses
Academic Year – 2011/2012
 Name of the Course Order of preference
1 ………………....…… ………….........………...
 2 ………………….…… ………………...………..
 3  …………………....…  …….……..…………...…    .
01. Name with initials :
02. Names denoted by initials:
03. National Identity Card No:
04. Date of Birth: 05. Sex:       Male       Female
06. Permanent Address (Within the box below) : 07. Administrative District:
08. Field of Engineering in order of preference :
1st Preference
2nd Preference
3rd Preference
09. Result for English Language at the G.C.E. (O/L) :
Year :  Index No. : Grade :
10. Result of the Best Attempt at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (on or before 2010) :
Subject Grade
1.  Combined Mathematics
2.  Physics
3.  Chemistry
4.  Common General Test
Z-Score
Year : Index No. : Medium
Attempt             1
st                                  2 nd                                        3 rd
I hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution.  I am aware that m y
registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full-time course at any other
state institution.  I certify that the information furnished herein is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs.350/= payable to SLIATE should be annexed.)
11–168

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1850
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'11'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2011
1851
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2011
NOVEMBER 04.11.2011 Friday — 21.10.2011 Friday 12 noon
11.11.2011 Friday –– 28.10.2011 Friday 12 noon
18.11.2011 Friday –– 04.11.2011 Friday 12 noon
25.11.2011 Friday –– 11.11.2011 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 02.12.2011 Friday — 18.11.2011 Friday 12 noon
09.12.2011 Friday –– 25.11.2011 Friday 12 noon
16.12.2011 Friday –– 02.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
23.12.2011 Friday –– 09.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
30.12.2011 Friday –– 16.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
2012
JANUARY 06.01.2012 Friday — 23.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
13.01.2012 Friday –– 30.12.2011 Friday 12 noon
20.01.2012 Friday –– 06.01.2011 Friday 12 noon
27.01.2012 Friday –– 13.01.2011 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.