

<!-- page 1 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08
Part IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 08.10.2018
(Published by Authority)
PArt  IV (A) — ProVIncIAl councIlS
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
centrAl  ProVInce ProVIncIAl  councIl  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
1A  PG  4272— 32  (10/2018)
wxl 2092$3 - 2018 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 08 jeks i`ÿod - 2018'10'08
No. 2092/3 -  moNdAy ,  october  08,  2018
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist republic of Sri lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
eXtrAorDInArY
resource centre Statute  no. 01 of 2018 of the central Province Provincial council
I do hereby notify the General Public the above Statute resolved in the central Province Provincial council of the democratic 
Socialist republic of Sri Lanka on 02.10.2018 and approved by the Hon. Governor of the central Province Provincial 
council on 06.10.2018.
 Sarath EkanayakE,
 chief ministry and ministry of Finance and Planning, 
 Law and order, Local Government and Provincial Administration, 
 manpower, education, cultural Affairs, tourism, Lands, 
 co-operative development, trade and commerce, Food Supplies 
 and distributional Affairs, environment, Investment co-ordination 
 and the ministry of subjects not come under other ministry.
.
Office of the Chief Minister,
Provincial council complex,
Pallekele,
Kundasale.
08th day of october, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08
Part IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 08.10.2018
Introduction
objectives of the 
centre
Short title and 
date of function
central Province Provincial council
reSource ceNtre StAtute  no. 01 oF 2018 oF tHe ceNtrAL ProvINcIAL couNcIL
A Statute to provide for the establishment of a resource centre  and make consequential Provisions for the 
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto for the uplift of competencies and productivity of the Local 
Authorities in the central Province, development of human resources targeting the Peoples. representatives 
and the management staff of the local authorities, coordinating the matters  related to access   knowledge 
of information technology required by the local authorities and implementation of development measures 
related to the human resource of the other Government and private institutions thereto.
Be it enacted by the Provincial council of the central Province of the Democratic Socialist republic 
of Sri lanka as follows :
 1.  this Statute may be cited as the Statute for the establishment of central Province resource centre 
of Local Authorities No. 01 of 2018, hereinafter referred to as the resource centre and shall come 
into operation from the date of receiving the accent  of the Governor of the central Province. 
Part  -   I
establishment of the local Government resource centre
 2.  this resource centre may be cited and known as the Local Government resource centre for the 
purpose of   carrying out the objects and functions referred in this Statute.
 3.  Hereinafter referred Officer in charge of the Centre shall be the Director of the Centre and shall 
appointed by the Governor with the recommendation of the minister in charge and he shall be an 
officer of the Executive Grade in the approved cadre.
 4.  For the purpose of implementing the objects of the centre, the commissioner shall attach the 
working staff from the approved cadre of the department staff.
 5.  the objects of the centre shall be,
  (1) t o transfer the Local Authorities of central Province the institutions providing productive and 
competent service to the public through the  peoples representatives  and the management staff 
of the local authorities empowering their knowledge, skills and attitudes.
  (2) t o implement empowering programmes regarding Local Government  making awareness of active 
participation of the public and peoples' organizations.
  (3) To develop the capacities of the Local Authorities through coordination and obtaining finance 
and technical contributions from the Government institutions, Provincial council, national and 
international states, local and international Non Government  organizations, institutions, private 
sectors and individuals  for the development of Local Government sector in the Province, according 
to the provisions of the constitution of the democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
  (4) t o function as a sharing center of knowledge related to the Local Government in the local 
authorities, Provincial, national and international levels.
  (5) t o provide facilities on request from the external institutions on human resource development.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08
Part IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 08.10.2018
 6.  the centre shall have the powers to,
  1. control the staff of the resource centre of the Local Government Institutions
  2. regular maintenance of accounts of the resource centre of the Local Government Institutions
  3. Presentation of all account reports of the resource centre of the Local Government Institutions
  4. Acquiring assets and responding assets of the resource centre of the Local Government Institutions
  5. entering in to agreements among external bodies relating to the activities  of the resource centre 
of the Local Government Institutions.
 7.  the centre shall execute functions such as,
  1. Provide technical knowledge and training on Information technology to all Local Authorities, 
Assistant Commissioner's office and the Department of Local Government of the Central Province 
to practice the Information technology at a maximum  level,  
  2. Organize and conduct various courses for the development of  Local Government field in the 
Province,
  3. collect information  and implementation of decisions taken by the board of management,
  4. create coordination between management committee and the Advisory  committee,
  5. Generate income sources through providing services and conducting training programmes,
  6. Levy of charges from the clients for the registration in the resource centre.
 8.   A management committee shall be established  (hereinafter  referred to as  the 'committee') for  
controlling, operation and making supervision of the activities of the centre.
  1) The Management Committee shall consist of the following officially nominated members:
 (a) Secretary to the Ministry in charge or an officer nominated by him,
 (b) commissioner,
 (c) Assistant commissioner of the Kandy, matale and Nuwara eliya districts,
 (d) Assistant commissioner of Local Government (departmental level),
 (e) director. 
 9.  the Secretary to the ministry shall be the chairman of the committee. If the Secretary nominate 
an officer, then the Commissioner shall be the Chairman of the Committee and the Director shall 
be the Secretary of the committee. 
 10.  the management committee shall have the powers and functions to -
  (1) make all administrative decisions to achieve its goals and preparation, implementation, feedback 
programmes and make supervision of development plans of the centre,
  (2) t ake all measures required for the development of the centre,
  (3) decide the ways of utilizing funds to achieve the goals of the centre,
  (4) Seek advices from the Advisory board when needed and function as appropriate. 
 
Powers of the 
centre
management 
committee
chairman and 
the Secretary to 
the committee
Powers and 
functions of the 
committee

<!-- page 4 -->

4A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08
Part IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 08.10.2018
 11.  the committee shall meet at least once in two months. 
 12.  the quorum for any meeting shall be four members of the management committee 
 13.  1.  there shall be an Advisory committee nominated by the minister hereinafter referred to as 
the Advisory committee to execute the duties of the management committee shall consist of 
members :
   Officially nominated :
  a. chief Secretary to the central Province,
  b. Secretary to the chief ministry of the central Province,
  c. commissioner of Local Government.
             Nominated by the Minister in charge of Local Government subject:
  a. one of the mayors of the municipal councils
  b. one of the chairmen of the central Province 
 c. t wo chairmen of the Pradeshiya Sabha councils representing central Province Pradeshiya 
sabha councils
  2)  the chief Secretary shall be the chairman of the committee and the Secretary to the committee 
shall be the Secretary to the ministry in charge of Local Goverment.
  3)  The Advisory Board shall hold office for three years. 
 
  4)  The membership falls vacant due to following situations :
  (a) death of a member of the Advisory committee, resignation of the post or abolishment of the 
post,
  (b)  Any member holding membership in the Advisory committee may be vacated  any time from 
his office by prior notice in writing by the Minister.
 14.  the chief minister may determine the remuneration that may be paid to members of the committee, 
authorized by the Governor.
Part  -  II
Finance and Account activities of the resource centre of the local Government
 15. 1)  As per orders of the Provincial treasury, a separate account shall be maintained  and there shall 
be credited the receipts to that account :
  a) All such sums of money as may be voted from time to time by the Provincial council for the 
use of the centre,
  b) All such sums of money as may be received from Government  and  Non Government 
organizations for the purpose of achieving the goals of this Statute,
  c) All such sums of money contributions received from the Local Government Institutions,
  d) All such sums of money collected and charged on performing duties of the centre,
  e) All such grants and contributions received by the centre.
  2)  the fund required for the performance of duties shall be utilized according to the decision of the 
management committee.
meetings of the 
committee
Quorum of the 
committee
Advisory 
committee
Payment of 
remuneration
Finance
activities
other aids and 
grants

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'10'08
Part IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 08.10.2018
  3)  The financial year shall be commenced from first day of the month January and ended in the thirty 
first day of the month in December of the year.
  4) the Income and expenditure Account, balance Sheet and Annual Account Statement including 
all transactions shall be prepared and the accounts reports shall be tabled to the Provincial council 
by the Minister before the thirty first day of the month of March in every year. 
 16.  Activities and accounts of the centre shall be audited by the Auditor General.
 17.  The Centre shall be treated as a specified Centre scheduled under the Bribery Act and shall be act 
according to the provisions of the Act.
General Provisions
 18. 1)   the minister has the power to enact necessary regulations for the purpose of carrying out  directions 
for achieving the objective of the centre. 
  2)  every regulation to be formed, shall be published in the Gazette by the minister and shall be  tabled 
to the Provincial council within one month of such publication in the Gazette.
  3)  Any rule not approved by the Provincial council shall not prejudice the validity of any activity 
previously done  or any proceedings commenced thereunder and shall be treated null and void and 
such date of effective should be notified in the Gazette.
 19.  contravening any of the provisions of this Statute is an offence and any person willfully obstruct 
any officer of the Centre in the performance of any of his function or in the exercise of any power 
vested on him under this Statute shall be guilty or an offence. When convicted in a court of Law 
having jurisdiction shall imposable a fine of Rupees not exceeding ten thousand or six month 
imprisonment  or the fine and imprisonment. 
 20.  In the event of any discrepancy arising between the Sinhala, english and tamil texts of this Statute, 
the Sinhala text shall be deemed final. 
 21.  In this Statute, unless the context otherwise require, 
 the Provincial council means the central Provincial council,
 the Governor means  the Provincial Governor of central Province,
 the minister means the minister in charge the subject of Local Government,
 the Secretary means the Secretary to the subject of the ministry of Local Government of the 
central Province,
 the commissioner means the commissioner of Local Government of the central Province,
 the department means the department of Local Government of the central Province,
 the Advisory committee means the Advisory committee of the resource centre.
10-1274
PrINted  At  tHe  dePArtmeNt  oF  GoverNmeNt  PrINtING,  SrI  LANKA.
Financial year
Account 
statements
Auditing
Scheduled under 
bribery Act 
provisions
minister enact 
necessary 
regulations
Guilty and 
offence
Interpretation