

<!-- page 1 -->

6 Council of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
COUNCIL OF THE COLLEGE OF COMMUNITY
PHYSICIANS OF SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
ACT, NO. 18 oF 1999
[Certified on 24th June, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 25, 1999
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: 4.50 Postage: Rs. 3.50
[Internet Version]


<!-- page 2 -->

1Council of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999
[Certified on 24 th June, 1999]
L.D. - O.  61/96.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  COLLEGE  OF
C OMMUNITY  PHYSICIANS  OF  SRI LANKA
WHEREAS a College called and Known as  “ The College
of Community Physicians of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka;
AND WHEREAS the affairs and objects of the said
College have heretofore been successfully managed and
carried out by the council of the College.
AND WHEREAS the council of the college has applied to
be incorporated and will be for the public advantage to grant
the application.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as The Council of the College
of Community Physicians of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act,
No. 18 of  1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, the members of the Council for the time being of the
college of community physicians of Sri Lanka, consisting of
the President, the President elect, the Secretary, the assistant
Secretary, the Treasurer, the Editor, ten other Members, the
immediate past president, the immediate past Secretary and
the immediate past Treasurer unless re-elected to the
respective post or elected to any other post in the council,
shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “
Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name and
style of the “Council of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts with full power and authority to have and use a com-
mon seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Council of
the College of
Community
Physicians of
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Council of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999
3. The General objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:-
(a) to organise programmes on  community medicine
including post graduate education and research, in
order to promote knowledge and experience in the
subject among medical practitioners;
(b) to organise programmes on community medicine
for the welfare of the people, and to promote
awareness of the subject among the people;
(c) to promote fellowshisp with, and assist, persons
and institutions engaged in the practice of
community medicine;
(d) to do other acts and things as are conducive or
incidental to the attainment of the above objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of the Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable or expedient for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation including the
power to operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
moneys with or without security, to receive or collect grants
and donations, to invest the funds of the Corporation, to
construct any building on any land vested in or acquired or
held by the Corporation, and to engage, employ and dismiss
officers and servants required for the carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
5. (i) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by the votes
of not less than two thirds of the members present and
entitled to vote, to make such rules, as are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, or any other written law, for
the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rales when made, may at
a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to, amended
or rescinded.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporarion.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Council of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999
(2) The rules of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka in force on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the rules of
the Corporation made under this section in so far as they are
not inconsistent with this Act or any other written law.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
6. All debts and liabilities of the College of Community
Physicians of Sri Lanka existing on the day preceding the date
of commencement of this Act, shall be paid by the
Corporation hereby constituted and all debts due to, and
subscriptions and contributions payable to,the College on
that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act.
7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and  hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
 property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
8. The income and property of the Corporation shall be
applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the
Corporation, and no portion thereof shall be paid or
transferred, directly or indirectly , by way of dividend, loan,
bonus or otherwise  howsoever, by way of profit, to the
members of the Corporation:
provided however, that the provisions of this section shall
not prohibit -
(a) the payment in good faith of reasonable and
adequate remuneration to any officer or servant of
the Corporarion or to any member of the
Corporarion for any services rendered by him to
the Corporation;
Debts due by and
payable to the
Council.
Corporation may
hold the
property
movable and
immovable.
Funds of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Council of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999
(b) the payment of reasonable and adequate rent for
premises let to the Corporation by any member of
the Corporation or by any company of which a
member of the Corporation is a shareholder , and
(c) the re-imbursement or repayment of reasonable or
proper expenses incurred, with the prior approval
of the Counil by any member, officer or servant of
the Corporation, in the discharge or performance
of the functions or duties or in promoting the
objects of the Corporation.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument except in the presence of such number of
persons as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation, who shall sign their names on the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and claiming by, from or under, them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala tex to
prevail in case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 6 -->

5Council of the College of Community Physicians
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.18 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the Superintendent. Government Publications Bureau, No. 32,
Transworks House, Lotue Road, Colombo 01 before 15 th December each year in respect of
the year following.