

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
¡â¨ 1905/32 – 2015 ud¾;= 12 Éæ¾ø n%yiam;skaod – 2015.03.12
No. 1905/32 – THURSDAY, MARCH  12, 2015
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A – G 21190– 16 (2015/ 03)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No. : CI/ 1571.
THE  INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Finlay Properties (Pvt) Ltd., No. 186, Vauxshall Street, Colombo 02 of the one part and Food
Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees’ Union, No. 513 2/ 1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 23rd day of May,
2014 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956).
HERATH YAPA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
04th March, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 28 of 2014
THIS COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT made on this 23rd day of May Two Thousand Fourteen pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act
between FINLAY PROPERTIES (PRIV ATE) LTD. a company duly registered under the provisions of the Companies Act and having its
registered office at No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 (hereinafter  referred to as the ‘’Employer”) of the ONE PART and FOOD
BEVERAGES & TOBACCO INDUSTRIES EMPLOYEES UNION a Trade Union duly registered under the provisions of the Trade
Unions Ordinance and having its registered office at No. 513 2/ 1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘’Union”)
of the OTHER PART Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows :

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
Title : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the FINLAY PROPERTIES (PRIV A TE) LIMITED CLERICAL, SUPER-
VISORY AND ALLIED STAFF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT OF 2014. and will supersede all previous Collective Agreements signed
between the company and the union or any other unions including ‘‘The Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff Collective Agreement of
2011’’  signed with The Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees union on 15 th July 2011.
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF
EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO
OR CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This  Agreement shall, subject as hereinafter provided, bind the Employer, the Union and all
employees as set out in clause 2 below and who are members of the union.
2. Employees to be Covered and Bound.–
(i) All Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff,
(ii) Such Technical, Sales and Allied Staff as at the Fifteenth day of July Two Thousand and Eleven  who were covered by the
Clerical, Supervisory and Allied Staff Collective Agreement of 2011 only to the extent that they were covered thereby, and
(iii) Such Technical, Sales and Allied Staff in respect of those provisions of this Agreement and upon and subject to such other
terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed between the parties after the date hereof who are members of the Union and
who are employed by the Employer, save and except-
(a) Staff holding executive or managerial positions,
or
(b) Staff employed in manual work who are not expressly covered by this Agreement.
3. Date of Operation and Duration - This Agreement shall be effective as from the First Day of January Two Thousand Fourteen and
shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving one month’s notice in writing to the other. Provided however that
neither party hereto shall give such notice to the other party before the Thirtieth day of November Two Thousand Sixteen. Provided further that
in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provision of law, either party shall be at liberty to abrogate this
Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–
(i) The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall from the date hereof and during the continuance in force of this Agreement,
be deemed to be included in all the contracts of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which are subsisting as at the date
hereof or which come into being during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
(ii) (a) The Union and its members who are employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary or add to all or any of the terms
and conditions of the employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered by and bound by this Agreement,
or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by
mutual agreement.
(b) Subject to the terms of this Collective Agreement, the Employer agrees that it shall not seek to vary or add to all or any of
the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this Agree-
ment, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by and of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement other
than by mutual agreement.
(c) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under provisions of sub-clause (a) or (b) may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary
arbitration.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(iii) Where the existing terms and conditions of employment of an Employee covered and bound by this Agreement are more
favourable than the terms and conditions provided for in this Agreement then nothing in this Agreement shall in any way effect
or prejudice such existing terms and conditions of employment and such terms and conditions of employment shall continue to
exist notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein.
(iv) Where an employee was immediately prior to the date hereof entitled or becomes entitled on or after that date under or by virtue
of any law or under any contract, agreement, award or custom to any rights or privileges more favourable than those to which
he would be entitled under this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to authorise or permit the
Employer to withhold, restrict or terminate such rights or privileges.
5.  Hours of work .–The normal working hours shall, during the continuance in force of this Agreement, be those hours which are
customarily worked at a store, factory, mill or job in the establishment of the Employer.
6.  Overtime .–
(i) Any work which is performed in excess of normal working hours shall be remunerated at one and one half (1 1/2) times the
normal hourly rate.
(ii) Where it appears that in any establishment of an Employer an Employee on being asked to work overtime, other than on a
weekly holiday, is likely to work overtime for a period of more than two (2) hours after the normal working hours, the
Employee shall be entitled to an interval of not less than thirty (30) minutes at the end of such normal working hours before
commencing overtime work.
7. Weekly Holidays .– Subject to Clause 10 of Part I hereof the following provisions shall govern weekly holidays.-
(i) Subject to sub-clause (iii) hereof the weekly holidays prescribed by the Act shall be the weekly half holiday and the weekly full
holiday as defined in Part III hereof.
(ii) Work performed on not more than two such weekly holidays in any one calendar month may, at the instance of the Employer
and with the consent of the Employee, be paid for in the manner set out hereunder and the Employee on being paid in the manner
set out hereunder shall not be entitled to a half holiday or a full holiday as the case may be in lieu.
(a) For any work performed after the normal closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be
paid overtime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at
treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(c) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (a) above or paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Employee shall be
paid the equivalent of the Employee’s salary for one half day.
(d) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the overtime
remuneration payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s monthly salary.
(e) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m.. on the weekly full
holiday, the overtime remuneration payable to the Employee shall be one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s monthly salary
in respect of the excess hours.
(f) For any work performed in excess of  eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m.. on the weekly full holiday, the
Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any
fraction of an hour of such excess.
(g) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (d), or paragraphs (d) and (e) or paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) above,
the Employee shall be paid the equivalent of the employee’s salary for one day.
(iii) Where and Employee has performed work on not more than two weekly holidays in any one calendar month and has been paid
for such work in the manner set out in the preceding sub-clause, then in respect of work performed on any further weekly
holidays in the same calendar month the Employee shall be remunerated in the manner set out hereunder and shall be entitled
to and allow a half holiday and/ or a full holiday in lieu of the weekly half holiday and/ or the weekly full holiday as the case may
be -

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(a) For any work performed after the normal closing time up to 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be
paid overtime remuneration at double the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(b) For any work performed after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly half holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at
treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an hour.
(c) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the Employee shall
be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s monthly salary.
(d) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday,
the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/ 30th) of the Employee’s monthly salary in respect of
the excess hours.
(e) For any work performed in excess of  eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or proportionately for any fraction of an
hour of such excess.
8. Casual leave - Leave for private business or for any other reason whatsoever, including ill-health if an Employee’s entitlement of
sick leave has been fully utilised, shall be allowed in accordance with the Employee’s entitlement under the Act up to a maximum of seven (7)
days in each year of employment whereof not more than two (2) days at any one time shall be taken, save upon the grounds of ill-health. Such
leave shall be known as Casual leave and shall be additional to all other holidays and leave provisions but an Employee shall not be entitled to
take such Casual leave preceding or following any period of Annual leave. Casual leave shall normally be granted on request without the
Employee being required to state the reason for the request. Where the Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave, his
difficulty shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to
state the reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether or not it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant the
leave.
9. Statutory and Customary Holidays.- Subject to Clause 10 of Part I hereof, the following provisions shall govern statutory and
customary holidays -
(i) The following holidays shall be allowed each year as paid holidays:
New Year’s Day
Thai Pongal Festival Day
Independence Day
Sinhala & Tamil New Year (Two Days)
Good Friday
Holy Saturday (Half Day)
May Day
The Day following Wesak
Prophet Mohammed’s B’day
Christmas Eve (Half Day)
Christmas Day
Boxing Day
(ii) (a) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and  if it falls on a weekly half holiday, an additional half day shall be
granted on the working day immediately preceding it; and if it falls on a weekly full holiday, a substitute holiday shall be
granted on a working day either in six (6) days preceding or in the six (6) days succeeding such weekly full holiday. No
substitute holiday shall be allowable for any day specified above, which is not a statutory holiday, if such day falls on a
weekly half holiday or a weekly full holiday.
(b) If any of the above days is a statutory holiday and  some other day not specified above is declared a statutory holiday in
substitution for such day, then such day shall be treated as a normal working day.
(iii) Muslim Employees shall normally on application be granted leave on the day following the end of Ramazan and on the Hadji
Festival Day; and Hindu Employees shall normally on application be granted leave on the Deepavali Festival Day; and such
leave shall be set off against any paid leave entitlement or if all such paid leave entitlement for that year shall be exhausted, such
leave may be granted as an un-paid holiday.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(iv)(a) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work during either of the half holidays set out in sub clause (i) hereof (i.e. after
the normal working hours for that day) the Employer shall pay the Employee either -
(i) On the basis set out in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Clause 7 (ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall not be entitled
to a half holiday in lieu.
or
(ii) On the basis set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Clause 7 (iii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall be entitled to and
allowed a half holiday in lieu.
(b) Where the Employer requires an Employee to work on any of the holidays set out in sub clause (i) hereof and provided that
if such holiday is a statutory holiday the Commissioner of Labour has given his permission for the Employee to work on
such holiday, the Employer shall pay the Employee either -
(i) On the basis set out in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Clause 7 (ii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall not be
entitled to a holiday in lieu.
or
(ii) On the basis set out in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Clause 7 (iii) of Part I hereof and the Employee shall be entitled
to and allowed a holiday in lieu.
(v) An employer may discuss with the Union the possibility of removing one or more of the customary holidays on terms
which may be mutually agreed to by the parties -
10. Supervisory Staff .– The provisions of Clauses 7 and 9 of Part I hereof regarding weekly holidays and statutory and customary
holidays shall not apply to Storekeepers, Assistant Storekeepers, Overseers, Foremen and other like or similar categories whose work involves
the supervision of staff employed in manual work (hereinafter referred to as ‘’Supervisory Staff” )but in respect of such supervisory staff the
following provisions shall apply:-
(i) WEEKLY HALF HOLIDAY.- For any work performed in excess of the normal working hours on the weekly half holiday,
the Employee shall be remunerated at one and a half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate and such Employee shall not be
entitled to any holiday in lieu for any overtime work so performed on a weekly half holiday.
(ii) WEEKLY FULL HOLIDAY.- For any work performed on the weekly full holiday the Employee shall be remunerated as follows :-
(a) (i) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s monthly salary.
(ii) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s monthly
salary in respect of the excess hours.
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of  eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or
proportionately for any fraction of an hour of such excess.
(iv) In addition to the remuneration payable under paragraph (i) above or paragraphs (i) and (ii) or paragraphs (i), (ii)
and (iii) above, the Employee shall be paid the equivalent of the Employee’s salary for one (1) day.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and the Employee is remunerated in the manner set out above, the Employee
shall be entitled to any holiday in lieu.
or
(b)( i ) For any work performed under and up to four (4) hours before 1.00 p.m. on the weekly full holiday, the Employee
shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s monthly salary.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(ii) For any work performed in excess of four (4) hours and up to eight (8) hours before 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at one thirtieth (1/30th) of the employee’s monthly
salary in respect of the excess hours.
(iii) In respect of any work performed in excess of  eight (8) hours or continuing after 5.00 p.m. on the weekly full
holiday, the Employee shall be paid overtime remuneration at treble the normal hourly rate for each hour or
proportionately for any fraction of an hour in respect of such excess.
Where any work is performed on the weekly full holiday and the Employee is remunerated in the manner set out above, the Employee
shall in addition be entitled to and allowed a holiday in lieu.
(iii) STATUTORY AND CUSTOMARY HOLIDAYS - Supervisory Staff shall be entitled to such Statutory and Customary
Holidays as they have hitherto enjoyed prior to the coming into force of this Agreement notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in this Agreement and for any work performed on such Statutory or Customary Holidays the Supervisory
Staff shall continue to be remunerated in the manner  in which they were remunerated prior to the coming into force of this
Agreement notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement. Provided however that the Supervisory
Staff shall have the same holidays as may from time to time be enjoyed by the staff employed in manual work supervised by
such Supervisory Staff and that the total of such holidays shall not be less than the total of the Statutory and Customary
Holidays enjoyed  by the Supervisory Staff as at the date hereof.
(iv) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed  in any way as bringing the Supervisory Staff within the provisions of the Act.
11. Annual Holidays.- Annual holidays shall be as prescribed by the Act and an Employee may opt to set off absence due to ill health
in excess of the entitlement provided under clause 12 of Part I hereof against his annual leave entitlement.
12. Sick Leave.-
(i) An Employee shall be entitled to not less than  twenty one (21) days leave, exclusive of weekly or other holidays, in any one
year in case of sickness, on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) The Employer will be entitled to refuse to grant to pay for  any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported by
a certificate from a Registered Medical Parctitioner.
(a) Where such period  of absenc exceeds two (2) days.
or
(b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Medical Practitioner,
is in excess of ten (10) days in any one year and the Employer has reasonable cause for suspicion of the bona fides
of the application of the Employee.
or
(c) Where the absence of the Employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or percedes any holiday allowed
under Clauses 8, 9 and 11 of part I hereof.
Provided further that any Employee who has abused the concession conferred by paragraph (a) above shall be liable to forfeit the same and
the Employer may by agreement with the Union accordingly withdraw such concession.
(iii) An Employee who takes less than twenty one (21) days sick leave  in any one year  as prescribed above shall be entitled to
avail himself of  the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succceeding year or years subjet to the following
provisions.
(a) In no case shall the entitlement to sick leave on full pay in any one year by reason of such accumulation of sick leave
entitlement exceed ninety (90) days.
(b) The accumulated sick leave  which an Employee is entitled to take in terms of sub clause (iii) (a) hereof may be availed of
on account of prolonged illness, hospitalisation, infectious disease or similar circumstances, but shall not  be used for
casual illness.
(c) An Employee who avails himself of accumulated sick leave in any year shall support such absence with a certificate from
a Registered Medical Practitioner unless this requirement is waived by the Employer.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(d) An Employee who is entitled to accumulated sick leave in terms of this sub clause iii (b) before utilising his/her 21 days
sick leave in respect of the year in which he/she  wished to avail himself  of the sick leave, if he has not already utilised such
21 days leave.
13. Salaries.– The salaries of all employees who were in emloyment  as at 1st January 2014 and continue to be in employment as
at the date of singing of this Agreement shall be reviesed as follows:
(i) A sum equivalent to 10% of the salary of an employee as at 31st December 2013 shall be added to the salary with effect from
1st January 2014.
(ii) Thereafter, a sum of Rs, 1000 /= will be consolidated into the salary of the employee with effect from 1st Januay 2014.
(iii) A sum equivalent to 5% of the salary of an employee  as at 31st December 2014 shall be added to the salary of an employee
with effect from  1st  January 2015.
(iv) Thereafter, a sum of Rs, 1000 /= will be consolidated  the salary of an employee with effect from 1st Januay 2015.
(v) A sum equivalent to 5% of the salary of an employee  as at 31st Devember 2015 shall be added to the salary of an employee
with effect from  1st  January 2016.
(vi) Thereafter, a sum of Rs, 1000 /= will be consolidated into the salary of the employees with effect from 1st Januay 2016.
14. The salary ranges and increments applicable to the different categories of employees covered and bound by this Agreement will
be as follows:
Minor Staff - Rs. 14,000/- to Rs. 26,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 200/- going up to Rs. 400/-
Grade 1 - Rs. 14,250/- to Rs. 28,500/- Minimum increment of Rs. 300/- going up to Rs. 600/-
Grade 2 - Rs. 14,500/- to Rs. 30,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 350/- going up to Rs. 650/-
Higher Grade - Rs. 15,000/- to Rs. 32,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 425/- going up to Rs. 700/-
Special Grade - Rs. 15,500/- to Rs. 34,000/- Minimum increment of Rs. 500/- going up to Rs. 800/-
15. Salaries for Periods Less Than One Month.–  For the purpose of this Agreement  salaries of any Employee for period  less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a)  For one hour - the salary for a month divided by two hundred and forty (240);
(b) For one day - the salary for a month divided by thirty  (30);
(c) For one half day (either morning or afternoon) - a day’s salary ascertained as above divided by two (2);
(d) For one week - a day’s  salary ascertained as above multiplied by seven(7);
16. Provident Fund.–
(i)  The Employer and  Employee shall contribute  to the Provident fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident
fund Act No. 15 of 1958
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust fund Act No. 46 of 1980, where the employer and an Employee as at
the date hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favorable than those prescribed by the Employees’
Provident Fund Act. The more favorable rates of contribution will continue.
17. Bonus.–
(i) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes, Employer will continue to pay  ex-gratia,  to  Employees bonuses which will
not be less than the quantum of bonus payments paid to them in accordance with prevailing practice prior to the First Day

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
of Januay, Two Thousand and Fourteen. If the Employer finds  it necessary, in his discretion, to reduce the quantum of bonus
payment in  respect of any year, the Branch Union in the estabilshment of the Employer concmed may canvass the question
of the reduction with the Employer. If the Branch Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may
pursue the matter with the Federation. Thereupon, the Federation will consider the matter and advice the Employer in such
manner as the Federation deems fit in the circumstances. If the Union is not statisfied in regard to the quantum of bonus
payments finally decided by the Employer in the light of the advice given by the Federation, the Union will not pursue the
matter further by any form of trade union action or otherswise during the pendency of this Agreement.
(ii) Payment of bonus higher than the quantum of bonus payments in the past will be in the sole discretion of the Employer,  and
the payment of such higher bonus shall not be subject to any dispute.
(iii) The provisions of sub clauses (i) and (ii) above will mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus schemes.
(iv) The Employer and the Union reseve the right to review the provisons of this clause in the event of profit sharing or Employee
participation in profits becoming compulsory by virtue of any law. Any dispute arising there from shall be dealt with as
provided in clause 26(i) of part I hereof.
18. Promotions.–
(i) The following shall be the principles which will guide the Employer on the question of promotion:-
(a) Mere length of service shall not be the sole criterion for promotion and the Employer shall be entitled to take into
account other factors such as efficiency, educational qualifications and character. Where suitability is comparable,
seniority shall be given preference.
(b) An Employee in Grade I in the Clerical or Supervisory Staff will normally be promoted to Grade II either before or
after completing a maximum period year’s service in Grade 1 unless his work is of a mechanical or routine nature not
involving a degree of skill or responsibility or unless his inefficiency has been established after due inquiry as provided
in Clause 23 of Part I hereof.
(c) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff from Grade II to the Higher Grade will depend on vacancies and
Employees who have shown the necessary capacity will be eligible for promotion to the Higher Grade.
(d) Promotion of Clerical and Supervisory Staff to the Special Grade will be from the Higher Grade and will depend on
merit.
(ii) The number of Employees in the Higher or Special Grade of the Clerical and Supervisory Staff of any establishment will be
determined having regard, inter alia, to-
(a) the nature of the undertaking
(b) the strength of the work force.
(c) the work involved in a post; and
(d) the merit of the Employees available for promotion.
(iii) Where an Employee is promoted at the normal incremental date from one grade to another, such Employee shall receive a salary
not less than that which he would have received had he remained in the grade from which he is promoted. But where an
Employee is promoted on a date other that the normal incremental date, such Employee shall be placed at a salary point in the
higher grade which will give him a salary not less than that which he would have received if he had remained in the grade from
which he is promoted. Provided however, that if an Employee is standing at the end of a grade when he is promoted to the next
grade, such Employee may be placed at any point in the higher grade to which he is promoted which will give him a higher salary
than the maximum salary in the grade from which he is promoted.
19.  Transfers.-
(i) Where it is a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality of an
establishment to another, such Employee will not be entitled to any additional remuneration if, in consequence of a transfer
from one locality to another, there is an increase in the number of hours of work.
(ii) Where it is not a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality
of an establishment to another, such Employee will be entitled to receive and the Employer shall be liable to pay additional
remuneration in order to compensate for any increase in the number of hours of work arising from a transfer from one locality

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
of an establishment to another. The amount of such additional remuneration, which will depend on the extent to which the
hours of work have been increased, shall be mutually agreed upon between the Employer and Employee or the Union on his
behalf. Provided however, that if the Employee is re-transferred to the locality in which he was previously employed and/or
the hours of work previously worked by him are restored to such Employee, the additional remuneration granted to him shall
be withdrawn with effect from the date of such re-transfer or restoration.
(iii) Where it is not a term of employment either express or implied that an Employee is liable to be transferred from one locality
of an establishment to another and the transfer of such an Employee will cause him substantial domestic disorganisation such
as may arise in consequence of a transfer from one station to another such transfer shall be effected of mutual consent between
the Employer and such Employee even if : -
(a)  Such transfer will not involve a change in the number of hours of work, or
(b)  He is offered additional remuneration in terms of sub -clause (ii) above
(iv) Nothing in the preceding sub-clauses of this Clause shall prejudice the right of an Employee to make representations to the
Employer against any order of transfer. If the employee requires an employee to comply with an order of transfer.  Notwith-
standing such representations. The Employee shall comply with the order of transfer but without prejudice to the right of an
Employee to make representations to the Employer against any order of transfer. If the Employer requires an Employee to
comply with an order of transfer notwithstanding such representations, the Employee shall comply with the order of transfer
but without prejudice to the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such transfer with
the Employer thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
(v) If the Executive Committee of the Union considers that any order of transfer of an Employee by an Employer is calculated to
threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously
detrimental to the interests of the Union, the  Union shall notify the Employer and the Federation thereof in writing and may,
if in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union the circumstances so warrant, instruct the Employee to refrain from
complying with the order of transfer pending settlement of the dispute as provided in this Agreement. If the Union instructs
the Employee to refrain from complying with the order of transfer as aforesaid, the Union shall notify the Employer and the
Federation thereof in writing and in that event the Employer shall be entitled to suspend the Employee immediately without
pay. Provided however, that if the Employer subsequently agrees or if an Arbirator holds that the order of transfer was not
justified the employee shall be entitled to his salary for the period of suspension if on the other hand, an arbitrator holds that
the order of transfer was justified, the employee shall comply with the order of transfer and he shall not be entitled to his salary
for the period of suspension. The refusal of an Employee to comply with an order of transfer or instructions from the Union
after the union notifying the Employer and the Federation as aforementioned shall not be deemed to be an act of insubordina-
tion by the Employee and the employee shall not be liable to disciplinary action by the Employer for such refusal.
20. Carrying Out Employer’s Instructions As To Duties .-
(i) If an Employee considers that any duty which he is required to perform by the Employer does not fall within the scope of his
employment under the Employer, the Employee shall be entitled to bring such matter to the notice of the Employer. If
notwithstanding such notification the Employer requires the Employee to carry out such instructions, then the Employee shall
be entitled to request the Employer to give him instructions in writing.
(ii) If the Employer gives the Employee such instructions in writing, the Employee shall carry out the same but without prejudice
to the right of the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such matter with the Employer
thereafter as provided in this agreement.
(iii) If the Employer refuses to give such instructions in writing, the Employee shall be entitled to refuse to carry out such
instruction and in that event the Employer shall have no right of action against the Employee.
(iv) If the Employer gives such instructions in writing but the Employee fails to carry out the same, the Employer shall be entitled
to suspend the Employee immediately without pay and to take disciplinary action against him without prejudice to the right of
the Employee or the Branch Union or the Union on his behalf to dispute such suspension or such disciplinary action as may
be taken against the Employee as provided in this Agreement.
21. Suspension .–
(i) An employee may, subject as hereinafter provided, be suspended without pay by the Employer : -
(a) pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct where such charge or charges relate
to :

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(i) Fraud, theft, misappropriation or a like offence by the Employee in the course of his employment ;
(ii) Abuse, threat or gross insubordination by the employee of or to a member of the executive or managerial staff of the
Employer ;
(iii) A breach of peace, or damage to property, or disturbance of the business of the Employer.
Provided however, that the Employer shall suspend an Employee under paragraph (iii) above only for so long as the Employee’s
continuance in employment will or is likely to be undesirable or to be prejudicial to the proper investigation of the charges or the Employer
carrying on his business;
(b) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days, after due inquiry :
(c) If an Employee refrains from complying with any order of transfer in terms of Clause 19 of Part I hereof or fails to carry out
the Employer’s written instructions in terms of Clause 20 of part  I hereof.
(ii) At the time of suspension or within twenty four (24) hours thereof, the Employer shall provide the Employee with a written
order or suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension.
(iii) Nothing in the preceding sub-clause shall prejudice the right of an Employee or a Branch Union or the Union on his behalf
to dispute an order of suspension thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
22. Probation.–
(i) Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months. Provided
however that if at the expiry of the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such
Employee, the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) and in that event the Employer shall
indicate to the Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been further extended. During the period of
probation or extended probation, the Employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice.
23. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then -
(i) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 21 (i) of Part I hereof or not, the Employee shall be
furnished with a show cause notice which shall setout the particulars of the charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than five (5) clear working days in which to give the
answer or explanation to the charges preferred.
(ii) Within five (5) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer the answer or explantation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however, that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the Employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explantation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an Employee to the Employer, the
Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(iii) If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explantation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension, forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all emoluments and entitlements due during the period of such
suspension.
(iv) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14) working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(v) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment. if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if an Employer fails to make an order, except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer, on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from the
conclusion of the inquiry into such charges the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such
charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(vi) If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer, after such inquiry, makes order that:-
(a) The Employee shall not be dismissed, then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall, subject to
Clause 21(i) (b) hereof, be paid all emoluments and entitlements due during the period of suspension irrespective of
such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges in
the show cause notice:

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(b) The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect as from the date of the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities or if in
view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously
referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or
inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances, the Employee may remain suspended without pay.
(vii) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub- clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the period
of thirty (30) working days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in
excess of thirty (30) working days upto the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) and to (c) of the
preceding sub-cause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(viii)In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to
(c) of sub-clause (vi) hereof within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee, unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the Federation and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such further
time as may be agreed.
(ix) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (iv) and (v) hereof where the Employer
proposed to warn an Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however that if the Union
disputes the warning or the punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the
Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject to
the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within fourteen (14) working days after receipt of the
Employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
24. Retirement - An Employee has the option of retiring at the age of fifty five (55) years or at any time thereafter and shall retire on
attaining the age of sixty (60) years. Provided however that if the Employer requires to retain the services of an Employee who has attained the
age of sixty (60) years, the Employee shall be offered fresh employment on a temporary basis so long as the Employer requires the services
of such Employee.
25. Trade union action .–
(i) The Union hereby undertakes in respect of all the terms and conditions of employment covered by this Agreement not to seek
to vary or alter any such terms or conditions other than by negotiation during the currency of this Agreement and hereby
expressly undertakes, subject to Clause 26 (iv) (d) of Part 1 hereof, not to engage in a strike or other form of trade union action
in respect of a dispute but will have such dispute settled in accordance with the procedure set out in Clause 26 of Part 1 hereof.
(ii) In case the Union decides to call for a general stoppage of work by its members in establishments of the employer on any
matter net covered by this Agreement, the Union will give written notice to the employer in whose establishment the work
stoppage is to take place, and will give its reasons therefore. The Union will give at least one week’s notice to the employer
of the date of the stoppage, or even longer notice, between the date of the Union’s decision to call for a general stoppage of
work and the date fixed for the stoppage, in the circumstances in which such a stoppage may be decided upon. In such case,
the Union will also instruct its Branch Union to exempt an agreed number of members from the work stoppage, in order to
provide the employer on a written request made by the employer, with a skeleton staff, in order to maintain essential services.
26. Disputes Procedure - Save and except any difference arising out of bonus which shall be dealt with as provided in Clause 17 of
Part 1 hereof, it is hereby agreed that the procedure to be followed for the settlement of a dispute shall be as set out in sub - clause (i) or (ii)
hereof.
(i) ( a) Where a dispute is between an employee and the employer, the employee shall, in the first instance, raise the matter
through such employee’s Branch Union with the employer and both parties shall endeavour to effect an amicable
settlement. Provided, however, that if the exigencies of the circumstances warrant the Union acting immediately in
accordance with the succeeding paragraph (b) it shall not be necessary for the employee Branch Union to raise the matter
as herein provided before the Union acts under the succeeding paragraph (b).

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(b) In the event of a dispute not being settled under paragraph (a) above, or in the case of a dispute between the Branch Union
and the Employer, the Union may, if it so desires, raise the matter with the Federation and thereupon all steps shall be
taken that may be reasonable by the Union and the Federation for an amicable settlement of the matter in dispute utilising
if desired, the good offices of the Conciliation Division of the Department of Labour.
(c) In the event of a dispute not being resolved or settled under the preceding paragraphs (a) or (b) the parties shall agree a
statement of the matters in dispute and such matter shall be referred to an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under section 3(1)(d)
of the Industrial Disputes Act for settlement by arbitration, or by mutual agreement decide on a reference to a
qualified mediator or body of mediators, If and when it may be feasible. Provided however that should the parties fail
to agree on a statement of the issue of the dispute for purposes of arbitration, each party shall furnish the Commissioner
of Labour with a statement setting out the issues in dispute and thereafter the Commissioner of Labour shall set out the
issues in dispute to be referred to the Arbitrator or Arbitrators.
(ii) ( a) The Union may notify the Federation in writing with a statement of the matter in dispute that such dispute should be dealt
with under the sub-Clause. As soon as possible after such notification by the Union to the Federation, a Special Disputes
Committee of the Federation shall endeavour to settle the dispute. If no settlement is effected within seven (7) days from
the date of the Union notifying the Federation, the dispute shall, as soon as possible, be referred to the Commissioner of
Labour for settlement by arbitration as provided in sub-clause (i)(c) above, or if the Union or the Employer so requests,
the dispute shall be referred immediately to a Special Arbitrator for settlement by arbitration.
(b) If a dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of an Employee by the Employer is referred to a Special Arbitrator
as aforesaid and he is unable to make an award within twenty one (21) days of the date of receipt of the reference, the
Special Arbitrator shall be competent, but not bound, either of his own motion or at the instance of the Union, to make
an interim award after duly considering all the relevant facts and circumstances for his failure to make an award within
twenty one (21) days of the date of reference, directing the Employer to pay the Employee a sum not exceeding the
equivalent of one half of the Employee’s normal remuneration for the first thirty (30) days from the date of cessation of
employment and for such period thereafter but not later than the date of the award on the reference a sum not exceeding
the equivalent of the Employee’s full remuneration. The parties shall be bound by and comply with the terms of any such
interim award.
(iii) Subject to sub-clause (iv) hereof, the procedure for the settlement of a dispute shall be as set out in sub-clause (i) hereof.
(iv) The procedure for the settlement of a dispute in respect of the matters enumerated in the succeeding paragraphs (a), (b) or
(c) shall, subject to the succeeding paragraph (d), be as set out in sub-clause (ii) (a) hereof.
(a) A dispute in connection with the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement arising from an act of an Employer,
which in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union is calculated to treaten or undermine the existence or the
legitimate activities of the Union.
(b) A dispute not connected with the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement arising from an act of the Employer,
which in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union is calculated to treaten or undermine the existence of the
legitimate activities of the Union or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union
or its members. Provided however that the disputes shall be referred to an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under the Industrial
Disputes Act or to a Special Arbitrator as the case may be, if no settlement is effected within seven (7) days from the date
of the Union notifying the Federation in terms of sub-clause (ii)(a) hereof, only if the Union so desire.
(c) A dispute arising from the dismissal or discharge of an Employee by the Employer on disciplinary grounds, which
dismissal or discharge is in the opinion of the Executive Committee of the Union vindictive or in bad faith and is
calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union. Provided however that the
disputes shall be referred to an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under the Industrial Disputes Act or to a Special Arbitrator as
the case may be, if no settlement is effected within seven (7) days from the date of the Union notifying the Federation in
terms of sub-clause (ii)(a) hereof, only if the Union so desires.
(d) If the Union does not, however, desire to refer a dispute for settlement by arbitration under the provisions of the
preceding paragraphs (b) or (c), the Union reserves to itself the right to engage in or authorise a strike or other form of
trade Union action and the  Employer reserves the right to take such steps as it may deem fit in the circumstances.
(v) ( a) In respect of a dispute arising between the parties hereto where arbitration is provided for under this Agreement, it is agreed
that the parties to the dispute shall detemine at the date thereof whether the dispute shall be settled by arbitration by one

<!-- page 13 -->

13 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
Arbitrator or three Arbitrators. Provided however that disputes arising over dismissals shall normally be referred to one
Arbitrator and disputes arising over the proper interpretation or implementation of this Agreement if involving matters of
principle or matters of general importance shall normally, if possible, be referred to a panel of not less than three Arbitrators.
(b) For the purposes of this Agreement, an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator shall be jointly selected by the parties. If the parties
fail to agree on an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator, he shall be selected by the Commissioner of Labour.
(c) Where a dispute over a dismissal has been referred for settlement by arbitration under the provisions of this Agreement and
the award contains a finding that the dismissal of the Employee by the Employer was not justified, then it is hereby agreed
between the parties that normally in such a case the Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator shall order that the Employee shall be
reinstated in his employment with the Employer and it is hereby further agreed that in any such arbitration the Arbitrator or
the Special Arbitrator shall take note of this paragraph in making any such award.
(d) A Special Arbitrator shall be competent, but not bound to make order in his award as to the manner in which the costs of the
arbitration excluding the legal expenses of either party shall be borne by the parties.
(e) An award of an Arbitrator or Special Arbitrator made as herein provided shall be final and binding on the parties hereto.
(f) (i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute by arbitration as provided for in this clause such request for arbitration shall be
communicated to the Federation within  six months calculated from the date on which negotiations fail.
(ii) Either party shall be entitled at any stage to inform the other that negotiations have failed.
(iii) The Employer  shall not be under any obligation to refer to arbitration any dispute where the request for arbitration is not
made within the period of six months specified in this sub-clause.
(g)(i) Where the Union seeks to settle a dispute relating to the termination of the services of an employee by arbitration as
provided for in this clause, such termination should have been disputed by the Employee with the Employer or by the
Branch Union with the Employer or by the Union with the Employer or by the Union with the Employer within three (3)
months of the date of termination.
(ii) The  Employer shall not be under any obligation to refer to arbitration a dispute relating to the termination of the services
of an Employee where it has not been disputed as aforementioned within the period of three (3) months from the date of
termination of services.
(iii) The date of termination for the purposes of this sub-clause shall be the date on which the written communication is sent
to the Employee terminating his services and not the date on which the termination of services takes effect under Clause
23 (vi) (b) hereof.
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS
GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1.  Domestic Inquiries.– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 23 of Part I hereof  is a member
of the Union, the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice :-
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a member of the Union  (hereinafter referred to as “an observer”)
to be present as an observer without loss of salary for absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such observer.
(c) An observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an observer shall not be
entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(e) The absence of an observer from the whole or any part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry,
nor the proceedings thereto, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
2. Union Meetings.–
(i) The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Branch Unions :–
(a) In respect of each meeting which a Branch Union desires to hold at the Employer’s permises, an application for permission
shall be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decided to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions :–
(i) That no person other than an employee of the Company shall be present at a meeting of the Branch Union ;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Branch Union, office bearers of the Union may with the
previous approval of the Employer attend ;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Branch Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its office bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a
meeting of the Branch Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Branch Union and its office bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in
connection with a meeting of the Branch Union to the Employer’s property or any other person at the Employer’s
premises,  and the Union shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
(ii) The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the General Council of the Union :–
(a) Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission to a member of the General Council of the
Union in order to attend a meeting of the General council, to leave office not earlier than  3 o’clock in the afternoon on not
more than one occasion in a month without loss of salary for such absence if an application for permission to attend is
made at  least forty eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting of the General Council.
(b) For the purpose of paragraph ( a) above the Union shall forthwith furnish the Employer in whose service there are
members of the General Council of the Union with a list of such members and keep the Employer informed of all changes
therein which may be made from time to time.
(iii) The Provisions of the preceding sub-clauses (i) and (ii) shall not be in derogation of any existing concessions or facilities
granted by the Employer to the Branch Union regarding Union meetings.
3. Duty Leave.-
(i) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave.-
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the circumstances
warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two office bearers of the Branch Union :-
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Branch Union and the Employer, or
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss of salary for such absence.
(ii) The Employer will in his discretion grant leave to an Employee to attend  a Trade Union course or seminar or conference either
in Sri Lanka or abroad on no pay leave unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual leave, customary or statutory
holidays which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.

<!-- page 15 -->

15 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
4. Check off.-
(i) (a) In this clause “Employer” shall mean the Employer bound by this Agreement and in whose establishment the membership of
the Union is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the persons employed by him in the categories covered and bound by this
Agreement.
    (b) If, for the purpose of this sub-clause, it becomes necessary to decide the question whether in the establishment of the Employer
bound by this Agreement the membership of the Union is not less than forty per centum (40%) of the persons employed by him
in the categories covered by this Agreement, the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by the
Department of labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the parties hereto and the Employer.
(ii) The employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the pay due to such Employee the current monthly Union
dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount so deducted to
the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(iii) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his pay shall sign a statement to the effect in the form set out in
Form No. 1 in the fourth Schedule hereto and hereinafter referred to as “an authorisation”.
(iv) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 2 in the Fourth Schedule hereto and hereinafter referred to as “a revocation”.
(v) No variation in the monthly deductions by way of check-off shall be made by the Employer except by mutual agreement with the
Union and Employee concerned. In the event of any variation being agreed, each Employee will need to signify his agreement to
the revised amount being deducted by way of check-off by signing a fresh authorisation to that effect in the form set out in Form
No. 3 in the Fourth Schedule hereto.
(vi) Entrance or readmission fees or special levies authorised by the Union’s constitution or contributions to the Union’s political fund
shall not be deducted by way of check-off.
(vii)(a) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorisation shall commence from the pay due immediately after the date of  receipt
of such authorisation and shall continue thereafter until the authorisation is cancelled by a revocation.
(b) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorisation shall cease from the date of receipt of revocation cancelling such
authorisation. Provided, however, that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the union or the Em-
ployee concerned for failure to comply with paragraphs (a) or (b) above, that, in his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled
not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month if the deduction by way of check-off will together with all other
deductions from an Employee’s pay in that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(viii)(a) The Employer shall once each month within fifteen (15) days after the regular pay day remit to the Treasurer of the Union the
total sums deducted by way of check-off by a cheque drawn payable to “Food, Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees
Union” and crossed Account Payee.
(b) The cheque shall be sent, at the Union’s risk, by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to the “The Treasurer, Food, Beverages
and Tobacco Industries Employees Union, No. 513 2/ 1, Elvetigala Mawatha, Colombo 05”.
(c) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(d) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the  actual
deductions made.
(ix) The Employer may suspend the operation of this clause as hereinafter provided by notice in writing to the Union-
(a) If the Union or a Branch Union resorts to a strike or any other form of trade union action in breach of the terms or provisions
of Part I of this Agreement the Employer may suspend the operation of this clause for such time as may be decided by the
Employer but not exceeding the duration of such strike or other form of trade union action. Before such a decision is made the
Employer and the Union shall endeavour to effect an amicable settlement.
(b) If the Union fails to maintain itself as a properly registered Trade Union under the Trade Unions Ordinance the Employer may
decide to suspend the operation of this clause for such time as may be decided by the Employer.

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(c) if a decision is made by the Employer under paragraphs (a) or (b) above,  the Employer shall be absolved of complying with
the provisions of this clause in accordance with the tenor of such decision.
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to
them.-
Words Meaning
Industrial Disputes Act - The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
The Act - The Shop and Office Employees (Regulations of Employment and Remuneration) Act, No. 19 of 1954
The Federation - The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon
The Union - The Food, Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees’ Union
Branch Union - The Branch Union of the Food, Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees’ Union in the
establishment of the Employer.
Employer (for convenience
sometimes referred to as
“he” or its grammatical
variations) - The Employer bound by the Agreement
Employee (for convenience
sometimes referred to as
“he” or its grammatical
variations) - An Employee covered and bound by this Agreement
Week - The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding Saturday night.
Weekly full holiday in - Shall have the meaning as “weekly holiday” under the Shop and Office Employees Act.
respect of any week
Weekly half holiday in - Shall have the same meaning as “weekly half holiday” in the Shop and Office Employees Act.
respect of any week
Two such weekly holidays - Two full holidays or four half holidays or any combination of full or half holidays which does not
exceed two full holidays.
Salary - The monthly salary according to the scales of consolidated salaries.
Normal incremental date - The date on which the employee would normally receive an increment.
Dispute - A dispute or difference between The Employer and an Employee or between The Branch Union and
the Employer or between the union and the employer on any matter covered by this Agreement or
affecting the Employees covered by this Agreement in relation to their employment under the
Employer covered by this Agreement.
Check-off - The act of the Employer deducting, at the request of the Union, subscriptions payable to the Union by
an Employee from the latter’s pay with his concurrence.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 17 -->

17 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
Form No. 1
Name of Employer : ..................................................................................
AUTHORISATION
In pursuance of the Agreement entered into between the Finlay  properties (Pvt) Limited and the Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries
Employees Union of which I am a member, please deduct from my pay each month the sum of Rupees ..............................(Rs. .......) and
remit the same to the said Union on my behalf in respect of my current monthly membership dues. The first payment should please be
made from my next pay following the date hereof.
...................................... .....................................................
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
.......................................................................................
(Full Name of Employee in Block Capitals)
................................................................................. (Address of Employee)
Received on : ..............................................................
(To be filled by the Employer)
Form No. 2
Name of Employer: ..................................................................................
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my pay any further membership dues in favour of The
Food Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union with effect from the next pay due to me immediately following the date hereof.
...................................... .....................................................
(Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
....................................................................................... (Full Name of Employee)
................................................................................. (Address of Employee)
Received on : ..............................................................
(To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
Form No. 3
Name of Employer: ..................................................................................
AMENDMENT OF AUTHORISATION
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, please deduct from my next pay following the date hereof
Rupees........................(Rs..............) instead of Rupees ............................. (Rs...............) as heretofore and remit the same to The Food
Beverages and Tobacco Industries Employees Union on my behalf in respect of my current monthly membership dues.
..................................................... ......................................
 (Date of Signing) (Signature of Employee)
....................................................................................... (Full Name of Employee)
................................................................................. (Address of Employee)
Received on : ..............................................................
(To be filled by the Employer)
03 - 826

<!-- page 19 -->

19 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
My No. CI/1797
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between A B C Industries Company (Pvt) Limited, No. 05, Upper Chatham Street, Colombo 1, of the
one part and All  Ceylon Commercial & Industrial Workers’ Union, No. 457, Union Place, Colombo 2 of the other part on 26th day of
February, 2014  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(Revised Edition 1956).
HERATH YAPA,
Commissioner  of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
04th March, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 10 of 2014
This Collective Agreement made this 26th day of February, Two Thousand and Fourteen takes effect from the First day of February Two
Thousand and Fourteen pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between A B C INDUSTRIES COMPANY (PVT) LIMITED, a Company
duly registered in Sri Lanka under the Companies’ Ordinance and having its registered office at 5, Upper Chatham Street, Colomb o 1, (
hereinafter referred to as the ‘’The Employer”) of the One Part and the ALL CEYLON COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL WORKERS’
UNION, a Trade Union duly registered under the  Trade Unions Ordinance and having its registered office at 457, Union Place, Colombo 2,
( hereinafter referred to as the UNION), of the Other Part.
WITNESSETH and it is  hereby agreed between the parties as follows : -
PART I
1. Employer covered and Bound.– A B C Industries Company (Pvt) Limited.
2. Employees  Covered and Bound .–  This Agreement shall cover and bind the members of the Union who are employed by the
Employer in the Manual and Labouring capacity in the classes of employees enumerated in the Second Schedule hereto, and who are  employed
on monthly contracts of employment by the Employer enumerated in the First Schedule hereto as at 1st May 2013.
3. Earlier Collective Agreement.- The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of the Collective
Agreement dated 30th March 2011 between A B C Industries Company (Pvt) Limited and the Employees of the Company.
4. Date of operation and Duration.- This Agreement shall be effective as from the First Day of February Two Thousand and Fourteen,
and shall thereafter continue in force unless determined by either party with six  month’s notice to the other subject to the f ollowing
provisions :-
(a) That one party  shall not give such notice to the other party before the Thirty First day of December  Two Thousand and
Fifteen and such notice shall not expire before the 30th day of June Two Thousand and Sixteen.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lanka Rupee under any provisions of law, party shall be at liberty to
abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s written notice to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
5.  General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–During the continuance in force of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of
this agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall  come into being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
6. Probation .- Every employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (06) months,
provided, however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such employee, the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the employee, in
writing, the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall
have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice. If the employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service

<!-- page 20 -->

20 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
during the period of probation or extended probation and has not been confirmed by the Employer, he shall be deemed to be confirmed in the
Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation ended, as the case may be.
7. Attendence.-
1. Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every day (other than
a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout the
normal working hours.
2. If, at a store, factory, mill or job work is temporarily not available for an employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within his capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to appropriate.
disciplinary action.
8.  Hours of work.-The normal hours of work shall be those hours which are customarily worked at a store, factory , mill or job in the
establishment of  the Employer bound by this Agreement. The normal hours of work shall refer to only the opening and closing time and not
to any intervals for meals or for rest.
9.  Forfeiture of Wages .-Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer, if an employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
10. Overtime.-
1. If required and authorised by the Employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the
Employer. Refusal to work overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
2. Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one-half (1.5) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 17(a) hereof.
11. Weekly Holidays -
1. In respect of each week every employee shall be allowed a holiday in that week as the weekly holiday. Provided, however, that
if any employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty-eight (28) hours, exclusive of any period of overtime work
during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of the weekly
holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 17(b) hereof.
2. In computing the period of twenty-eight (28) hours referred to in Sub-Clause (1) the Employer shall include.-
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the worker as annual holiday.
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 12 hereof, and
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
3. The Employer may employ any employee on his weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee, as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided, however, that if any employee who is employed on his weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and in such
event that employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of Clause 17(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that employee within six (6) days of that
weekly holiday, provided further that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly holidays in any one calendar month the
Employer may with the consent of the employee.-
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that employee shall
not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid pay him one day’s wage
computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 17(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday, OR
(b) In case that an employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in respect
of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage as aforesaid
employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.

<!-- page 21 -->

21 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(ii) In respect of work done on such weekly holiday the employee shall be paid as remuneration:
(a) one and one-half (1.5) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 17(b) hereof for
the  number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one hour for a meal), and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause (17(a) hereof for each subsequent
hour of work.
The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the
Employer for periods exceeding twelve (12) days in respect of the durating of each such period.
12. Annual Holidays.- Annual holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages Board
for the Engineering Trade.
13. Public Holidays -
1. Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages Board for the
Engineering Trade, provided however, than an employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance with the decisions
of the Wages Board for the Engineering Trade.
2. If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either in
the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be granted to the
employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause II hereof.
3. If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the number
of hours constituting the normal workding day (inclusive of one hour for a meal) on the day immediately preceding such public
holiday shall be six and one half (6 1/2) hours.
14. Casual leave -
 1. In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment that employee shall be
entitled to take  on account of private business or other reasonable cause, including ill-health of that employee’s entitlement to
sick leave has been fully utilised, leave (hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate
of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay such
remuneration provided however that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any one time save and except upon
the ground of ill health. Provided further than an employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or
immediately following any period of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any employe\s first year of employment
including any period of probation he shall be entitled to casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each
complete period of two months’ service.
2. Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state that reason for the application.
where the Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to the employee as
soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the employee may be required to state the reason for the application
in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual leave.
15.  Sick leave.- In any year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty-one (21) days. Provided that:
(a) His illness is supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by the Employer), and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation with the meaning of Clause  6 hereof. Provided, however, that an employee who has
been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be entitled
to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and sick leave not exceeding five (5)
days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’s probation.
16. Monthly Wages .–
1. As from the First day of January Two Thousand and Fourteen, each employee shall be paid, upon and subject to the other terms
and conditions herein contained, a monthly wage on the basis of the scales of wages set out in the First Schedule hereto.
2. The salary of each employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be increased by 20% with effect from 1st January
2014 and such employee will be placed at a corresponding point or next higher point on the salary scales set out in the First
Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 22 -->

22 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
3. The scales of wages set out in the First Schedules hereto include the following allowances which have been consolidated with
employee wages:-
(a) The allowance of Twenty Five (25) percent up to a maximum of Fifty Rupees (Rs. 50/-) per month payable in terms of the
Budgetary Relief Allowance of Workers Law No. 1 of 1978.
(b) The allowance of Fifty Five Rupees (Rs. 55/-) per month payable in terms of the Supplementary Allowance of Workers Act
No. 65 of 1979.
4. As a matter of goodwill, it is agreed that all employees who were in service as at 1st  JANUARY 2014 will receive national
arrears of SIX MONTHS ON THE 20% INCREASE OF THEIR SALARIES. This payment will not attract EPF/ETF
contributions.
5. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka -
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement, legally obliging the
Employers to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law.
(b) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether or
not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
6. It is agreed that if the old CCPI is re-introduced by the Government on a furure date, the NRCLG payment may be considered
by the Company at its absolute and sole discretion. However, such payment will not be considered during the duration of this
Collective Agreement.
17. Wages for Periods less Than One Month.- For the purposes of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the following manner.-
(a) For one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240).
(b) For one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30).
(c) For one half day, a day’s wage ascertained as (either morning or afternoon) divided by two (2).
(d) For one week, a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7).
18.  Provident Fund:.–
1. The Employer and Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’Provident Fund Act
No. 15 of 1958.
2.  Subject to the provisions of the Employee’s Trust Fund Act No. 46 of 1980, where the employer and Employee as at the date
hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employees’ Provident Fund
Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Terminal Benefits.–
1. The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the scheme of terminal
benefits set out in this clause.
2. The Scheme shall apply to every employee in the service of the Employer on the First day of May Two Thousand and Thirteen
or who joins the service of the Employer on any day after the First day of May Two Thousand and Ten, as long as this Agreement
continues in force.
3. As and by way of terminal benefits the Employer shall pay an employee a sum equivalent to one month’s wages for each year of
service less the Employer’s contribution to the Provident Fund and Trust Fund but excluding  interest thereon.
4. The wage on which the said terminal benefits under sub - clause 3 hereof shall be payable will be the last monthly wage receivable
by an employee on which Provident Fund is payable.

<!-- page 23 -->

23 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
5. For the purpose of calculating terminal benefits under this Clause, a year of service shall be a period of not less than six months.
6. The terminal benefits provided for in this Clause shall be payable to an employee on the cessation of his services arising from
death or any other cause whatsoever. Provided, however, that if at the date of cessation of an employee’s services there is due to
his Employer from the Employee any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation or on any other account and the same cannot be
recovered from the amount to the employee’s credit in the Provident Fund, the same shall be recovered from the terminal benefits
provided for herein.
7. On the death of an employee whilst in service who is eligible to receive terminal benefits under this Clause, the Employer shall
pay such terminal benefits in the manner and to the persons hereunder set forth :-
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of the deceased employee’s Provident Fund at the date of his death, to
the nominee or nominees of such employee in conformity with the form of nomination where such nominee is surviving and
of full age.
(b) When there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or any or more of the nominees having pre deceased the
employee or in the event of the nominee being a minor at the time that the payment of the terminal benefits become due, the
Employer shall make payment only after the person or persons entitled to the payment have established their claim in law and
furnished proof thereof.
8. In the event of the gratuity payable under the Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, providing for the payment of gratuity being more than
the terminal benefits herein provided, the more favourable scheme shall apply, but not both.
20. Bonus.–
1. Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and Without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payments in the past and
as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, each Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of his
employees a bonus, which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for year immediately preceding the
signing of this Agreement. If in any year the Employer in his discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than the sum of
money paid to each of his employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement, the employees
may canvass such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter,
the Union may pursue this matter with The Employer’s Federation of Ceylon (hereinafter called the “Federation”). If the dispute
as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same shall be referred to a Committee of three persons
(hereinafter referred to as “a Bonus Committee”) which shall be constituted in accordance with the Privisions of sub-clause (2)
for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
2. At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus, the Commissioner of Labour will consititute
a Bonus Committe which shall consist of three Senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least 10 years post qualification experience.
The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of Chatered Accountants to the Commis-
sioner of Labour, to the Employer, the employees and the Federation. Thereupon, the Commissioner of Labour will communicate
in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee, so constituted, a Statement of Principles and Procedure by which the
members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute pertaining to the reduction of bonus.
3. Upon recipt of the submission and the Statement of the Principles and Procedure from the Commissioner of Labour, the Bonus
Committe shall in accordance with the said Principles and Procedures decide whether the reduction of the bonus by the Employer
was justified and if the reduction was not justified, to what extent, if any, the bonus shall be reduced. The Bonus Committee shall
communicate the decision in writing to the Federation, the employees and the Commissioner of Labour. If the decision of the
Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and binding onthe parties to the dispute and the employees or any
one or more of them and/ or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise
during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is divided by its decision, then the decision
of the Commissioner of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute and Commissioner’s decision
shall be communicated in writing by th Commissioner of Labour to the Federation and the Union and/ or its members shall not
pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year an Employer should pay his employees a
bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus in the year immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement.
5. The fees payable to the members of such Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the reduction
of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner of Labour.

<!-- page 24 -->

24 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
6. The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediatly proceding the signing
of this Agreement, shall be at the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by the employees nor shall
the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
7. The provisions of sub Clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to existing bonus schemes.
8. At the request of the Commissioner of Labour, the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka will nominate
three Chartered Accountants with not less than 10 years of post qualification experience drawn from professional Accountancy
Firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
9. Any dispute relating to the payment of bonus shall be resolved only in terms of provisions (1) to (8) above and no other provision
in this Agreement shall be applicable.
21.  A
NNUAL INCREMENTS.-
The annual increments provided in each of the scales of wages in the First Schedule hereto shall be automatic unless as a matter of
punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary action of account on serious misconduct, an
increment is suspended, stopped, deferred in which case where an increment is -
(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year.
(b) Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year.
(c) Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent upon
a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped nor
deferred,  then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall accrue
to the Employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the employee has been notified in
writing of a complaint against such employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency fraud or misconduct,
which in the circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
22. Carrying out Employer’s, Instructions as to Duties.-
1. If an employee considers that any duty which he is required to perform by the Employer does not fall within the scope of his
employment under the employer, the employee shall be entitled to bring such matter to the notice of the Employer. If notwith-
standing such notification the Employer requires the employee to carry out such instructions then the employee shall be entitled
to request the Employer to give him instructions in writing.
2. If the Employer gives the employee such instructions in writing, the employee shall carry out the same but without prejudice to
the right of the employee to dispute such matter with the Employer thereafter, as provided in this Agreement.
3. If the employer refuses to give such instructions in writing, the employee shall be entitled to refuse to carry out such instructions
and in that event, the Employer shall have no right of action against the employee.
4. If the Employer gives such instructions in writing, but the employee fails to carry out the same, the Employer shall be entitled to
suspend the employee immediately without any pay and to take disciplinary action against him without prejudice to the right of
the employee to dispute such suspension or such disciplinary action as may be taken against the employee as provided in this
Agreement.
23. Warning.- If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the employee by a letter,
a duplicate of which shall be signed by the employee. If the employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the employee
orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
24. Suspension.-
1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his employer.-

<!-- page 25 -->

25 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
(a) pending an inquiry to be held by  such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal
(b) in order to avoid a breach of peace or damage to the property or disturbance of the business of the employer
(c) as a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1) (a) or within forty eight (48) hours thereof, the Employer shall provide the
employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reason or charges in terms of Clause 26 hereof.
25. Disciplinary Action.- Where the Employer proposes to proceed against the employee then -
1. Irrespective of whether an employee has been suspended under Clause 25 hereof or not, the employee shall be furnished with a
show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such employee and
such show cause notice shall give the employee not less three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer or explanation
to the charge or charges preferred.
2. Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the Employer
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred against such employee. Provided, however, that if in the circum-
stances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the written answer
or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an employee for such further period of time as is
deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
3. If the Employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee shall, if he is under suspension,
forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlement due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written or explanation of the employee to the show cause notice and such answer or
explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working days from the date
of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause notice
and the punishment, if any, impose by the Employer. Provided that if the employer fails to make an order except for reasons
beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from the conclusion
of the inquiry into such charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such charges and no
inference adverse to the employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that -
(a) the employee shall not be dismissed, then, the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 25(1) (c) hereof, be paid all wagesand entitlement due to for the period of suspension  irrespective
of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges in the
show cause notice.
(b) the employee shall be dismissed, then the employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee’s suspension
and accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension
(c) in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the employee, the Employer is unable
to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities for further
investigations or inquiries or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employee the
matter has been previously referred to the Police or any other authorities for investigation or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations of inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
7. If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein the employer fails to make an order under paragraphs (a)
to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)  working days
from the date of the employee’s suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for the period of thirty
(30) days from the days of such suspension in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order
under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
8. In any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to (c)
of sub-clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date or suspension of the employee unless he is prevented from so doing by reason
of the employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the Employer and the
Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such further time, as may be agreed.

<!-- page 26 -->

26 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (4) and (5) hereof where the Employer
proposes to warn the employee or where the employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the Union
disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry, the
Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject to
the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after receipt of the employee’s
explanation shall not be material or relevant.
26. Retirement.-
On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the Employer and
there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the employee and notice of such retirement provided, however, that an
employee who has retired may, in the discretion of his Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such
terms as may be mutually agreed.
27. Termination of Service.-
1. Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any employee by the Employer except for work usually performed by the
day or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of Clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise expressly stipulated)
be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one (1) month and to be renewable from month
to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s notice be given by either party to the other
of his intention to determine the same such month has expired.
2. Where an employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work he shall be informed thereof at the
commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period or on the
failure of the employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.
28.  Disputes procedure.-
1. In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer and give the Employer at least
ten (10) day’s time within which to reply. If in the Union’s opinion the Employer’s reply is unsatisfactory, the Union and the
Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
2. When the Union concludes that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive, it shall ask the Department of Labour to
intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange a conference and / or discussion with a view
to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until the Department
of Labour reports failure.
3. Subject to the provisions of Clause 32 hereof, all disputes between the parties shall be settled in accordance with the provisions
of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made there under.
4. Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the pendency of this
Agreement.
29. How anomalies in the Course of Implementing This Agreement  Shall be Dealt with .– Any anomaly arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between representatives of the Federation and the Union. If th e matter
cannot be settled by negotiations, the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act  and the
regulation hereunder.
30. Trade Union Action. - The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union action against the employer in respect of any dispute between the employer on the one hand and the union and/ or its members
and/ or any employees covered and bound by this Agreement on the other hand whether or not such disputes  have been caused by an act
of the Employer, which in the opinion of the controlling body  (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide  or vindictive or
calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the legitimate activities of the Union and/ or its members or grossly unfair or seriously
detrimental to the interest of the Union and/ or its members. Provided however, that at least Seven (07) days notice in writing shall be given
by the Union to the employer and the Commissioner of labour before the date of commencement of any intended strike or other for m of
Trade Union action consequent to an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the
Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the legitimate activities of the Union and/ or its
members of is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/ or its members.
31. V ariations of Terms and Conditions of Employment, Benefits.–
1. The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement

<!-- page 27 -->

27 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
as amended or altered in terms of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees
covered and bound by this agreement other than by mutual Agreement.
2. The employer agrees with the Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement that he
shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by the employees covered and bound
by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
3. Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under the provisions of Sub - clause (1) or (2) may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
Part II
1. Domestic Inquiries.- If an employee is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 25, the following provisions shall
apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice -
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another employee (hereinafter referred to as “observer”) to be
present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice he shall, forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry, submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry,
nor the proceedings thereat, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
PART III
DEFINITIONS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to them
Words Meaning
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes
Act
Employer (for convenience sometimes referred to as “he” or its An employer covered and bound by this agreement.
grammatical variations
Employee (for convenience sometimes referred to as ‘’he” or its Subject to the provisions of Clause 5 of Part II hereof an
grammatical Variations). employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive
an increment.
W age The monthly wage according to the scales of wages in the
First Schedules hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and
midnight on the succeeding Saturday.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 28 -->

28 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015


<!-- page 29 -->

29 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015


<!-- page 30 -->

30 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015


<!-- page 31 -->

31 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015


<!-- page 32 -->

32 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015


<!-- page 33 -->

33 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.03.12
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.03.2015
SECOND SCHEDULE
Workshop Workers
All workmen engaged in the mechanical, electrical, maintenance, machine, engineering and other support functions.
Factory Workers
All workmen engaged in and about the factory premises on duties other than the above including checking.
03-827
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA