

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1894
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1886
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"982 – 2016 wf.daia;= ui 26 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'08'26
No. 1,982 –  fRiday ,  august 26, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th  september, 2016 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd  september, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 government Printer (Acting)
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1883
Note.— Registration of deaths (temporary Provisions) (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of 
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 10, 2016.
N. B.—  (i) Part iV(a) of the gazette No. 1981 of 19.08.2016 was not published.
 (ii) the List of Jurors in Kurunegala and Kuliyapitiya Jurisdiction area in year 2016, have been published in Part Vi of this 
gazette in all three languages. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1884
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1885
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1886
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths
 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or 
before 26th september, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
09th august, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
   Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Kadawath sathara Post of additional Registrar of  district secretary/additional
 and gangawata  Marriages (Kandyan/general) of  Registrar general, district   
 Koralaya  Polwatta ampitiya area  secretariat, Kandy. 
08–700
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths
 
KuRuNEgaLa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1887
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or 
before 27th september, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Panduwasnuwara Post of Birth and death Registrar of  district secretary/additional
 West  girithalana Koralaya division and   Registrar general, district   
   Post of Marriage Registrar of    secretariat, Kurunegala. 
   devamedi Hathpaththuwa division 
   (Kandyan/general)
08–681
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages 
 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1888
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
26th september, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
08th august, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy udunuwara Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district secretary/additional
    of Rammalaka, Kandupalatha area  Registrar general, district   
      secretariat, Kandy. 
08–680
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages 
 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1889
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
26th september, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
08th august, 2016. 
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
    Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy doluwa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district secretary/additional
    of udapalatha division  Registrar general, district   
   andiyakadawatha area  secretariat, Kandy. 
08–679
––––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERVICE  COmmISSION 
ministry of finance 
dEPaRtMENt of V aLuatioN
recruitment to the Post of legal officer (grade iii of 
the executive officer category) on oPen Basis - 2016
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the citizens of sri Lanka 
possessing following qualifications for the post of Legal 
Officer in the Department of Valuation. 
No. of Posts - 01
01. Method of Recruitment .- the candidate obtaining 
the highest marks based on the results of a structured 
interview conducted by a Board of interview appointed by 
the Public service commission from among the applicants 
who have completed the qualifications set out in the notice 
will be recruited for the vacancy. the structured interview 
will be conducted in conformity with the marking scheme 
approved by the Public service commission (as set out 
under No. 06).
02. Qualifications required : 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications.- 
  should have obtained a degree in Law from 
a university recognized by the university 
grants commission or should have sworn in 
as an attorney at Law of the supreme court. 
 (ii) experience.- should have gained an active 
professional experience of not less than three 
(03) years subsequent to swearing in as an 
attorney at Law  of the supreme court. 
 (iii) Physical Attributes.-  Every candidate shall 
be adequately sound in physical and mental 
health to serve in any part of sri Lanka and to 
perform duties in the post. 
 (iv) Other :
 * should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 * applicants should be of excellent moral 
character.
 * should have in every respect completed 
the qualifications required for recruitment 
to the post as at 26.09.2016. 
03. Terms of engagement and conditions of service : 
 (i) this post is permanent. you are required to 
be subject to the policy decisions made by 
the government in future on the scheme of 
pension entitled to you.
 (ii) this appointment is subject to a period of 
probation for 03 years. should pass the first 
Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years 
from the recruitment to the post as set out in 
the scheme of Recruitment. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1890
 (iii) y ou should prove that you have duly acquired 
the proficiency of the official language before 
the expiry of five years from the date of 
acceptance of this appointment, in terms of the 
provisions of Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 of 21.01.2014 and the provisions 
of circulars incidential thereto. 
 (iv) this appointment is subject to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public service commission and 
the scheme of Recruitment pertaining to the 
post of Legal Officer of the Department of 
Valuation and also to the amendments and 
provisions that have already been made and 
those that may be made in the future thereto. 
04. Age limit.- age should not be less than 21 years 
and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of the 
applications. 
05. Salary Scale.- Monthly salary scale applicable 
to this post in accordance with schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016 will be 
Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895 
(sL-01-2016). salary will be paid to you in terms of the 
provisions of such circular as set out in schedule ii thereof. 
(e.g. a basic salary of Rs. 27,871 and an adjustment 
allowance of Rs. 9,651 will be applicable for the period 
from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016).
06. the marking scheme given below will be the basis 
for the structured interview :
 Subject  Maximum 
   Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications  20
 LLB degree from a recognized university
 - for a first class pass 20
 - for a second class upper pass 15
 - for a second class Lower pass 10
 For a First Class pass in the final year of the Law College 15
 For a Second Class pass in the final year of the Law College  10
 (Marks will be allocated only for the highest eligibility - for either 
 Degree or Law College qualification only)
02 Additional Professional Qualifications  15
 for a Post graduate diploma of not less than one year in the relevant discipline 
 or a Post graduate diploma in Law awarded by a recognized university
 (05 marks for each diploma)
 for a diploma course of not less than 06 months in the relevant discipline awarded
 by a recognized institute 
 (03 marks for each diploma)
 For a Certificate Course of not less than 03 months in the relevant discipline 
 awarded by a recognized institute
 (02 marks for each course)
03 Additional Experience  30
 Experience as an attorney at Law in the public service or private sector
 More than 06 months and less than 01 year - 02 marks 
 Maximum 30 marks at the rate of 05 marks per year 
 (other than the prescribed 03 year period in service in as an attorney at Law 
 for obtaining the required basic eligibility)
 (Additional experience should be supported by a certificate obtained from 
 an attorney at Law who counts not less than 20 years of experience or
 from a President's counsel or a Judge)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1891
04 Proficiency in the English Language  15
 for a degree/Post graduate degree/LLB/Post graduate LLB followed in 15
 English medium
 (should have answered all related question papers of the examinations in the  
 medium of English)
 for a diploma course in English Language from a university recognized by the  10
 university grants commission or from an institute recognized by the government
 (01 year or 1500 hours)
 For a Certificate Course in English Language from a university recognized by the 
 university grants commission or from an institute recognized by the government
 - 06 months/720 hours 07
 - 03 months/360 hours 05
05 Knowledge in Information Technology  15
 for following information technology as a main subject for a degree recognized  15
 by the university grants commission 
 for a diploma course in information technology not less than 01 year or over a  10
 duration of 1500 hours from an institute recognized by the government
 For a Certificate Course in Information Technology from an institute recognized 
 by the government 
 - 06 months/720 hours 07
 - 03 months/360 hours 05
06 For the skill shown at the interview  05
 full Total  100
07. Identity of the candidates.- only the applicants whose forms of application are complete in every respect will 
be called for the structured interview. 
Originals and duly certified copies of all testimonials should be produced at the interview. 
following documents of identity will be entertained for the establishment of identity of the candidates at the 
interview : 
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons. 
 (ii)  Valid passport. 
08. Method of forwarding Forms of Application :
 (i) applications should be forwarded by registered post to reach the address given below on or before 
26.09.2016. applications received after the due date will be rejected. 
  secretary, 
  Ministry of finance.
  the secretariat, 
  colombo 01. 
 Subject  Maximum 
   Marks

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1892
 (ii) a specimen form of application that should be 
forwarded is appended at the end of this notice. 
applicants should prepare and complete their 
forms of application on the a4 size papers in 
their own hand writing in such a manner as 
to appear items No. 01 to 08 in the first page, 
items No. 09 to 11 in the second page and items 
12(i) -12(ii) in the third page. 
 (iii) the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the form of application should 
be marked with the words "application for 
recruitment to the post of Legal Officer in the 
department of Valuation". 
 (iv) the signature of the candidate in the form of 
application should be attested by a Principal 
of a government school/Justice of Peace/
commissioner for oaths/attorney at Law/
Notary Public/Commissioned Officer in the 
Tri Forces/an Officer holding a Gazetted post 
in the Police Service or an Officer holding a 
permanent post in the Public service drawing 
a consolidated monthly salary of Rs. 22,935 or 
more. 
 (v) the candidates who are already in the Public 
service or Provincial Public service should 
forward their forms of application through the 
Head of department of the department they 
serve in. 
 (vi) applications that do not comply with the 
specimen form of application appended hereto 
will be rejected. No complaint whatsoever with 
regard to loss of or delay in applications will be 
entertained. 
09. Furnishing inaccurate information.- if any of the 
particulars furnished by you is found to be incorrect or 
erroneous prior to the recruitment, your candidature will 
be revoked. 
if such incorrect or erroneous particulars are revealed 
after the recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss you 
from service subject to the procedures related thereto. 
By order of the Public service commission, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of finance. 
the secretariat, 
colombo 01.
sPecimen form of aPPlication 
(application should be prepared as given below)
APPLIcATIOn FOR RecRuITMenT TO The POST 
OF LeGAL OFFIceR In The DeP ARTMenT OF 
VALuATIOn 
01. Name of the candidate :
   1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––.
   1.2 Name in full :–––––––––.
    (in block letters)
   1.3 Name in full :–––––––––.
    (in sinhala/tamil)
02. Private address :–––––––––.
 (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––.
 (Any change of address should be notified forthwith)
03. address to which the letter calling for interview should 
be sent :
 in block letters :–––––––––.
 in sinhala/t amil :–––––––––.
04. Whether male or female : Male
 (Male 01, female 02)  female
05. Medium of language you present yourself for the 
interview : 
 sinhala and English - 1
 t amil and English - 2
06. Whether you are a citizen of sri Lanka :–––––––––.
07. National identity card No. :
08. date of Birth : 
 y ear   Month date
  8.1  age as at the closing date of applications : 
  y ears  Months days 
09. (i) Professional and other qualifications :..................
 (ii) Highest qualification acquired in the second 
language :.................
 (iii) Highest qualification acquired in the first 
language:.................
   (year and the grade (credit/distinction) you 
obtained should be indicated if it is g. c. E. (o/L) 
g. c. E. (a/L) Examination)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1893
   (iv) (i) Degree Qualifications :
 Degree Subjects Pass (Class) Year  University 
    (ii) Post Graduate Qualifications :
 Title of the Post Year in which the  University
 Graduate Degree Degree was awarded 
  (v) Experience in the profession as attorney-at-Law 
:–––––––––––.
10. Have you been convicted for any offence in a court of 
Law ? yes/No :
 if yes, furnish details :–––––––––––.
11. Certification by the Candidate : 
 (a) i do respectfully and solemnly declare that the 
particulars furnished by me in this application 
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge. 
 (b) I am aware that I will be liable to be disqualified 
for recruitment to service if this declaration 
made by me is found to be false and dismissed 
from service if it is so proven subsequent to the 
appointment. 
  ––––––––––––,
  signature of the candidate. 
date :–––––––––.
12.  (i) attestation of the signature of the candidate : 
i, do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms. ............................... 
who is forwarding this application is known to me 
personally and that he/she signed before me on the .............. 
of ................ 2016.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attesting Officer.
full name of the attestor :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Certificate of the Head of Department : 
i certify that the particulars referred to above furnished 
by the candidate were examined by me and that they were 
found be correct and that his/her work, attendance and 
conduct are satisfactory. He/she could not be released 
from service if selected to this post through this structured 
interview. 
 ––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of department. 
designation :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
08-793
–––––––––––––––––
Notice 
PubLIC  SERVICE  COmmISSION
ministry of Rural Economic Affairs
REcRuitMENt to tHE Post of VEtERiNaRy 
suRgEoN gRadE iii of tHE sRi LaNKa 
aNiMaL PRoductioN aNd HEaLtH 
sERVicE - 2016
tHis is with regard to the notice of calling applications 
for Bachelors of Veterinary Medicine to select qualified 
persons to be appointed to 207 posts of Veterinary surgeon 
of grade iii of the sri Lanka animal Production and Health 
service, which appeared in the Gazette Notification of No. 
1968 and dated 20.05.2016. accordingly the regulations of 
(a) of chapter 01 is amended as follows :
(a) the last date for calling applications will be 31st of 
august 2016. 
By order of the Public service commission,
 d. K. R. 
ekanayake, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of Rural Economic affairs. 
12th august, 2016. 
08-693

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1894
amendment 
PubLIC  SERVICES  COmmISSION 
ministry of Public Administration and 
management 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR tHE 
REcRuitMENt to tHE V acaNt Posts iN gRadE 
iii of sRi LaNKa sciENtific sERVicE - 2015
SECTION 5 of the notification of examination published 
on the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka No. 1972 dated 17.06.2016 under Examinations, 
Examination Results etc. in Part i : para ii(a), is revised 
as follows. accordingly, the closing date of application 
mentioned at the end of first para of the notification is 
26.09.2016. 
Age limit.- Age shall be not less than 22 years not 
more than 36 years as at the closing date of application. 
02. further, section 3 is revised as follows and the 
matters and conditions other than those mentioned herein 
shall remain unchanged. 
Salary Scale .- as per schedule i of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the 
salary scale entitled to this post is Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 - 
8x1,630 -17x 2,170 - Rs. 110,895 (sL-1-2016). your salary 
will be paid as mentioned in schedule ii of the circular in 
line with the provisions of the said circular. 
on the order of the Public service commission, 
 J. J. 
rathnasiri, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of Public administration  
 and Management.
10th august, 2016. 
08-717
–––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hOmE AffAIRS 
Limited Competitive Examination for Promotion 
to the Post of Administrative Grama Niladhari of 
the management Assistant Supra Grade under 
the ministry of home Affairs - 2016
as per the directive of the Public services commission, 
the Gazette Notification dated 06.12.2011 for the Limited 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
competitive Examination to be promoted to supra 
grade of the grama Niladhari service, scheduled to be 
held, relevant to the year 2011 is hereby cancelled. With 
reference to the year 2016, applications are hereby invited 
from grama Niladharies of the grama Niladhari service 
who have fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in Clause 
04 of this Gazette  Notification, for promotion to Supra 
grade of the service on limited basis. the list containing 
the examination centers and the numbers is attached 
herewith as the schedule No. 1 whilst the list of district 
numbers is attached as the schedule No. 2 at the end of this 
notification. 
01. Method of Promotion : 
 (i) There are 104 vacancies to be filled on 
limited basis and the applicants who fulfill 
the qualifications prescribed in Clause 04 
below should sit for written examination 
conducted by the commissioner general 
of Examinations. Qualifications will be 
examined by an interview board/boards 
consisting of three officers appointed by the 
Public service commission. When calling 
applications for the general interview, number 
of candidates equivalent to the aggregate of 
the number of vacancies to be filled through 
the limited competitive examination and 
25% of the aforesaid number of vacancies, 
shall be called for the interview, based on 
the priority list prepared in the order of merit 
shown by the applicants who have obtained 
the amount of pass marks or above at the 
written examination. 
 (ii) In attaching the Officers who are appointed to 
the supra grade, initially the opportunity will 
be given for the officers already in service to 
get transfers to the existing vacancies and 
for 40% of the remainder of vacancies after 
above transfers being made, depending on the 
seniority secured at the examination, officers 
shall be attached to a divisional secretariat 
other than the divisional secretariat the 
officer is presently attached, within the 
district and at a time when the number of 
applicants who have fulfilled qualifications 
exceed the number of vacancies available 
within the district, such applicants shall be 
attached to the available vacancies outside 
the district. if the candidates who are attached 
to such service stations do not accept the 
appointments, the appointments of such 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1895
candidates shall be cancelled and further they 
shall not be entitled to make any request for 
an appointment, based on the results of this 
examination at a later occasion. 
02. Scheme of examination.- candidates shall sit for 
the following examination and the examination shall be 
conducted only in sinhala and tamil mediums. once such 
language medium is selected, candidates are not allowed to 
change the selected medium of language at a later occasion : 
 Subject Subject Marks Time
  no.
 (i) Office Management and 1 100 mark 1 1/2  
  Office Methods   hours
 (ii) Establishment activities,  2 100 mark 1 1/2
  Procedural rules of Public    hours
  service commission and 
  Public finance   
  Management
 (iii) case study and 3 100 marks 1 1/2  
  Professional Knowledge    hours
 (iv) general Paper 4 100 marks 1 1/2  
     hours
candidates should secure a minimum of 40% of marks 
for each paper in order to obtain minimum qualifications at 
the examination. 
03. Syllabus : 
 (i) Office Management and Office Methods 
(subject Number 01)
  Under Office Management, Candidates are 
required to answer a question paper consisting 
questions on organization structure, principles 
of organizations, task analysis and task 
evaluation, leadership supervision and decision 
making ability, communication, public 
relations, coordination and problem solving.
  Under Office Methods, candidates are required 
to answer a question paper covering the subject 
areas such as principles on office methods, office 
procedures, documents and filing, planning 
and handling of forms, office correspondents , 
control over the utilization of office equipment, 
office layout and environment, job description, 
work and systems study, measurement of work 
and preparation of work steps. 
 (ii) Establishment activities, procedural rules of 
Public service commission and Public finance 
Management (subject No. 02)
  under establishment activities and procedural 
rules of Public service commission, the 
candidates are expected to answer the 
questions on general knowledge on procedures 
to be followed when making recruitments to 
Public service, establishment activities of 
public officers, vesting of powers for the tasks 
such as appointments, transfers, promotions 
and termination of service of public servants, 
disciplinary and welfare of public servants, 
privileges entitled to by public officers 
and the general knowledge on regulations, 
procedures and circulars which have been 
already issued and are to be issued in future by 
government and Public service commission 
on establishment activities. 
  under Public finance Management, it is 
expected to test the general knowledge of 
the candidate on the responsibilities of an 
accounting officer and annual estimates, cash 
control, vesting/delegation of responsibilities 
on financial matters, receiving, accounting, 
acceptance of money, payments, custody of 
public money, imprest and bank account, 
supplies and services, tender activities, board of 
surveys, audit queries, ledgers and summaries 
of income and expenditure of government 
offices, bank reconciliations and books on 
financial control, knowledge on regulations 
and circulars issued so far by the government. 
candidates are required to answer all questions. 
 (iii) Case studies and professional knowledge 
(Subject No. 03)
  it is expected to test the knowledge of the 
candidate on the subjects entrusted to grama 
Niladharies by various acts and ordinances, 
Ministries, departments, Provincial councils 
and other government statutory institutions. 
further, a case study relevant to the said 
subjects entrusted to grama Niladharies, is 
also included. 
 (iv) General paper (Subject No. 04)
  it is expected to test the general knowledge of the 
candidate on the nature of public administration, 
structure of public administration, public policies 
and new public reforms, fundamental rights, 
human rights, Human Rights commission, 
ombudsman, Public Petition committee of the 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1896
Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, 
proper arrangement of office environment, 
welfare activities of the staff, sociological 
recognition of civil and official status and the 
duties of public officers towards recipients. 
04. Qualifications- Candidates should have fulfilled 
the following qualifications as at the closing date of 
application. 
Professional Qualifications and Experience : 
 (i) Shall be an officer in the Grade I of the Grama 
Niladhari service ; 
or
 (ii) Shall be an officer in Grade II of Grama 
Niladhari service who has completed at least an 
active and satisfactory service of not less than 
eight (08) in grade ii to the stipulated date ; 
or
 (iii) shall be a graduate who has completed at least 
an active and satisfactory service period of not 
less than five (05) years in the Grade II of the 
grama Niladhari service. 
Other :
 (i) Shall have passed all the due Efficiency Bar 
Examinations.
 (ii) shall have completed an active and satisfactory 
service period within immediate preceding five 
(05) years to the due date. 
 (iii) Should have completed the necessary qualifications 
for recrutiment to the post in every manner, to the 
date specified in notice of calling applications/
Gazette Notification. 
Note : (i) the previous service period of the officers 
in grade ii who have been absorbed into 
the grade iii under the clause ii, 14.1 of 
the grama Niladhari Recruitment Procedure 
approved by the Public service commission 
with effect from 29.09.2010 and promoted 
to grade ii as per the provisions available 
under clause 10.1.1 of the said recruitment 
procedure, shall be considered as a relevant 
service period. 
05. Salary Scheme :
 (i) salary code No. : MN 7-2016 (Rs. 41,580 
-11x755 -18x1,030 - Rs. 68,425)
  (in preparing salaries under this salary scale, the 
provisions of the Public administration circular 
03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 shall be applicable.)
 (ii) The officers promoted shall be placed on the 
salary step of this salary scale in consistent to the 
revisions made to section 5, chapter Vii of the 
Establishment code by Public administration 
circular No. 11/94 and the Public administration 
circular No. 7/2000.
06. Method of Application : 
 * a  specimen application for this examination is 
published at the end of this notification. The 
candidates shall prepare their applications strictly 
in accordance with the specimen application. 
the application shall be prepared in a4 size 
papers using both sides, including number 01 to 
05 in the first page and the remaining numbers 
in the rest of the pages. applications can be type 
written, but they shall be filled by the candidate 
him/herself clearly and correctly in his/her own 
handwriting, following the instructions given in 
this notification. 
 * When preparing the application, the name of the 
examination in the heading shall be mentioned 
in English language as well in applications 
prepared in both sinhala and tamil mediums. 
 * application shall be perfected in duplicate. 
the copy of the application shall be sent to the 
Divisional Secretary to be filed in the personal 
file whilst the original shall be sent to the 
commissioner general of Examinations. 
 * all candidates shall send their applications 
by registered post to reach the commissioner 
general of Examinations, organization and 
foreign Examination Branch, department 
of Examinations, P. o. Box, 1503, colombo, 
through the divisional secretary of the respective 
division, on or before 26th September, 2016. 
 * the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application should be marked, 
"Limited cmpetitive Examination for 
Promotion to supra grade of grama Niladhari 
service - 2016". the applications received after 
the closing date of application shall be rejected. 
 * No any document or a copy of such document 
shall be attached to the application. However, the 
candidate shall keep the documents mentioned 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1897
and the documents required to prove his/her 
qualifications ready in hand, to be provided 
whenever requested. 
07. examination fee.- the examination fee is Rs. 500. 
Examination fee should be paid at any post office island-
wide to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner general of Examinations. the receipt 
obtained thus should be affixed to the relevant cage of 
the applications form with its margin and the receipt 
number, date and the post office should be mentioned on 
the application. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with the candidate. the fee is non-refundable. No 
money orders or stamps shall be accepted as examination 
fee and such applications shall be rejected without any  
notice. 
 * if the candidates who paid the relevant 
examination fee and applied for the Limited 
competitive Examination to be promoted to the 
supra grade of the grama Niladhari service 
which was scheduled to be held in 2011, 
expect to sit for the examination this time, 
that examination fee shall remain valid for the 
examination in 2016. such candidates should 
affix a photocopy of the receipt in the relevant 
cage of the application. 
08. (i) Admission to the examination : 
 * commissioner general of Examinations shall 
issue admission cards in respect of each 
candidate who has submitted applications 
correctly, informing the date of the examination 
to be held. candidates appearing for the 
examination should render their admission 
card to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
Without such admission card, no candidate 
shall be allowed either to enter the examination 
hall or to sit for the examination. 
 * the admission card with the signature duly 
certified, should be submitted to the supervisor 
of the examination hall on the first day of the 
examination. 
 * all the candidates should have knowledge of 
the rules and regulations of the examination 
published in the government Gazette 
Notification and they shall be bound to follow 
such rules and regulations. 
 * the Head of the department shall grant duty 
leave for the candidates who possess the 
admission cards issued by the commissioner 
general of Examinations enabling them to sit 
for the examination. 
 * Identity cards.- candidates are required to 
prove their identity to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor of the examination hall for all the 
subjects they appear at the examination. for this 
purpose any of the following will be accepted. 
 * identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons,
 * a  valid passport.
 (ii) examination Results.- As specified in Para. 
02 of this notification, a list of two times the 
number of existing vacancies of the applicants 
who secure not less than 40% of marks for 
each subject at the written examination shall 
be provided to the secretary, Ministry of Home 
affairs. Results of the examinati on shall be 
either sent personally to each applicant who sat 
for the examination or shall be posted on the                              
website www.results.exams.gov.lk.
09.  (i) A notification shall be published in newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates. 
if there is an applicant whose admission card 
is not received at least five (05) days of such 
advertisement, it should be referred to the 
organization and foreign Examination division 
of sri Lanka Examinations department in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. 
in making such inquiry, the name of the 
examination the candidate has applied for, full 
name of the candidate, National identity card 
Number and the address should be clearly 
mentioned. if the applicant is a resident outside 
colombo, it would be more effective to send a 
letter of request along with said information via 
the fax number mentioned in the notification, 
also indicating a fax number of the applicant 
in order to receive a copy of the admission 
card without delay. in making such inquiry, in 
order to prove any information requested by 
department of Examinations, it would be useful 
to keep the photocopies of the application form, 
the receipt kept at your possession after paying 
the Examination fee and the receipt of postal 
registration in hand. 
 (ii) issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean the fact that he/she 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1898
has fulfilled the qualifications required to sit for 
the examination, has been accepted. 
10. all candidates are bound to comply with the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examination. This notification is issued as per the order of 
the Public service commission.
11. if it appears that there is any inconsistency or 
discordance between language texts in this notification, 
which is published in sinhala, tamil and English medium, 
the notification in Sinhala medium shall be treated as the 
correct one and thus, action will be taken accordingly. 
 
neil de alwis, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of Home affairs. 
Ministry of Home affairs,
independence square, 
colombo 07, 
08th august, 2016.
(For office use only)
sPEciMEN foRM of aPPLicatioN 
limited comPetitive examination for Promotion to suPra grade of grama niladhari service - 2016
(No. 1-5 shall be on the first page and from No. 6 onwards shall be on the rest of pages)
Medium of Examination : 
sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
(indicate the relevant number in the cage) district where the candidate serves district number
   (indicate the district and the district number 
   as per the schedule No. 02)
town in which you wish to sit for the examination  town No. 
(indicate the town and the town number as per the schedule No. 01)
Part i
(N.B.- The application shall be filled clearly by the candidate in his/her handwriting)
01. (i) (a)  Name in full (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (eg. : HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa guNa WaRdHaNa)
  (b) Name with initials (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (With initials at the end, eg. : guNaWaRdHaNa, H. M. s. K.)
  (c) Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02.  (i) Office Address :––––––––––––.
  (ii) address to which the admission shall be sent :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
03.   (i) divisional secretariat :––––––––––––.
  (ii) grama Niladhari division and Number :––––––––––––.   

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1899
04.  (i) sex : Male - 0
     female  - 1
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  (ii) date of Birth : 
   y ear :–––––––. Month :–––––––.  date :–––––––. 
  (iii) National identity card No. : 
05.  (i) date of appointment/absorption to the post 
holding at present and reference number and date 
of the letter :––––––––––. 
  (ii) total period of service :
   y ears :––––––. Months :–––––––.  days :––––––. 
  (iii) Present grade :––––––––––. 
   Period of service in that grade :
   y ears :––––––. Months :–––––––.  days :––––––.  
06. if the candidate has been absorbed to grama Niladhari 
service, indicate following particulars  :––––––––––. 
 (fill the relevant paragraph only)
  (i) date of entry to the service of special service 
Officer  :––––––––––. 
   (Period of service)
  (ii) Date of entry to the Cultivation Officers' Service  
:––––––––––. 
   (Period of service)
  (iii) date of entry to the agriculture Extension service  
:––––––––––. 
   (Period of service)
  (iv) date of entry to any other similar service  :–––––. 
   (Period of service)
07. are you an old or new entrant for the purpose of 
official language policy  :––––––––––. 
08.  (i) Have you earned all the salary increments during 
the period of service  :––––––––––. 
  (ii) if not state the details  :––––––––––. 
09. if you have been released at present for the service in 
a corporation or another service, state the particulars 
:––––––––––. 
10. if you have obtained no-pay leave for a foreign 
employment or for any other purpose, state the 
particulars :––––––––––. 
11. Have any disciplinary actions being taken against you ?  
if so state the details :
N. B.- As specified in the Gazette Notification, the 
receipt for the examination fee, obtained from the 
Post Office in favour of the applicant shall be affixed 
here firmly so as not to be detached.
Firmly affix the receipt by one margin so as 
not be detached
Receipt No.  :––––––––––. 
Post Office  :––––––––––. 
date  :––––––––––. 
amount in Rupees  :––––––––––. 
i, ................................ hereby certify that the above 
particulars are true and correct. i am also well aware that 
if any particular furnished herein is found to be false or 
incorrect, i am liable to be dispossessed of my rights for the 
promotion to supra grade of this service and further, i am 
liable to be subject to disciplinary action. further, i declare 
that i have no objection for such action and i also agree to 
be bound by the orders of the commissioner general of 
Examinations. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer. 
date  :––––––––––. 
Part ii
To be filled by the Divisional Secretary 
i hereby certify that, 
  (i) the particulars provided above by Mr./Mrs./
Miss .................................. have been checked 
with his/her personal file and found to be true and 
correct. 
  (ii) the prescribe examination fee has been paid and 
the receipt is affixed.
  (iii) there is no intension to take any disciplinary 
action against the officer.
  (iv) His/her service has been satisfactory during the 
immediately preceding five years and he/she has 
been appointed to grade ....................... of grama 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1900
Niladhari service from ................. and a copy of 
the application submitted herewith is filed in the 
officer's personal file. 
  –––––––––––––,
  divisional secretary. 
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
Official Stamp :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(delete inapplicable words)
ScheDuLe nO. 01
examination centers 
this examination shall be held in colombo, Kandy, 
galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mulathivu, trincomalee, 
Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, Badulla, 
Rathnapura and Kilinochchi. the relevant towns and the 
town numbers are stated in the following table. the relevant 
section of the application shall be filled in accordance 
with the table containing the towns and town numbers. 
applicants shall not be allowed to change the town/towns 
applied at later occasion. 
 Town Town number
colombo 001
Kandy 002
galle 003
Matara 004
Jaffna 005
Mannar 006
Mulathivu 007
trincomalee 008
Batticaloa 009
Kurunegala 010 
anuradhapura 011
Badulla 012
Rathnapura  013
Kilinochchi. 014
If any center mentioned above does not have a sufficient 
number of candidates such center shall be cancelled and 
the relevant candidates shall be directed to one of the 
nearest centers. 
ScheDuLe nO. 02
List of District numbers
 Index District District
 no.  number
 1 colombo 001
 2 gampaha 002
 3 Kalutara 003
 4 Kandy 004
 5 Matale 005
 6 galle 006
 7 Matara 007
 8 Hambantota 008
 9 Kurunegala 009
 10 Puttalam 010
 11 Nuwara Eliya 011
 12 Rathnapura 012
 13 Badulla 013
 14 Monaragala 014
 15 Kegalle 015
 16 anuradhapura 016
 17 Polonnaruwa 017
 18 ampara 018
 19 Batticaloa 019
 20 t rincomalee 020
 21 Jaffna 021
 22 Vavuniya 022
 23 Mannar 023
 24 Kilinochchi 024
 25 Mulathivu 025
08-665/1
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hOmE AffAIRS 
Competitive Examination on merit basis for 
Promotion to the Post of Administrative Grama 
Niladhari of the management Assistant Supra 
Grade under the ministry of home Affairs - 2016
as per the directive of the Public service commission, 
applications are hereby invited from grama Niladhari 
Officers, belonging to Grama Niladhari Service who have 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1901
possessed qualifications prescribed in Section 5 below, 
for promotion to supra grade of the service on merit 
basis. the list containing the examinat ion centers and the 
numbers is attached herewith as the schedule No. 1 whilst 
the list of district numbers is attached as the schedule No. 
2 at the end of this notification. 
conditions of Promotion.- in the order of aggregate of 
marks obtained at the written examination and the marks 
calculated at the structured interview, based on the seniority 
and merit, applicants shall be appointed to 71 vacancies in 
Administrative Grama Niladhari posts to be filled on merit 
basis. 
02. Method of Promotion : 
 (i) an examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner general of Examinations on 
behalf of the Public service commission for 
the candidates. accordingly, priority shall be 
determined on the order of the aggregate of 
marks secured by candidates based on the 
results of the examination and the marks 
allocated by the interview board consisting 
of three members appointed by the Public 
service commission. 
 (ii) from a priority list prepared in accordance 
with the marks secured at the written 
examination a number of candidates, two 
times the number of available vacancies, shall 
be qualified to be called for the interview.
 (iii) In attaching the officers who are appointed to 
the supra grade, initially the opportunity will 
be given for the officers already in service to 
get transfers to the existing vacancies and 
for 60% of the remainder of vacancies after 
above transfers being made, depending on the 
seniority secured at the examination, officers 
shall be attached to a divisional secretariat 
other than the divisional secretariat where 
the officer is presently attached, within the 
district and at a time when the number of 
applicants who have fulfilled qualifications 
exceed the number of vacancies available 
within the district, such applicants shall be 
attached to the available vacancies outside 
the district. if the candidates who are attached 
to such service stations do not accept the 
appointments, the appointments of such 
candidates shall be cancelled and further they 
shall not be entitled to make any request for 
an appointment, based on the results of this 
examination at a later occasion. 
 (iv) the examination shall be conducted only 
in sinhala and tamil mediums. applicants 
shall not be allowed to change the selected 
language medium at a later occasion. 
03. (i) Scheme of examination .- candidates shall sit 
for the subject "aptitude and subject Related 
study". the time allocated for this question 
paper shall be 1 1/2 hours and candidates are 
required to secure at least 40 out of the 100 
marks to be qualified at the examination. 
 (ii) Syllabus.– the knowledge of the candidates on 
general knowledge, decision making ability, 
logical answering and office administration 
in performing duties with regard to the duty 
subjects assigned to office administration and 
Grama Niladhari Officers, will be expected.
04. fields for which marks shall be allocated in 
determining seniority and merit      
 (i) seniority (Maximum marks, 60)
  04 marks for each period of satisfactory service 
of one year beyond the 05 year service in grade 
i (02 marks for a period between 6-12 months. 
However, no marks shall be allocated for a 
period less than 6 months)
 (ii) Merit  (Maximum marks 35)
 (ii-i) commendations received after being appointed 
to grade i (Maximum marks 15)
  03 marks for each certificate of commendation 
made as per form general 230B.
  01 marks for each commendation made by a 
certificate other than Form General 230B.
 (ii-ii) for achievements at the management 
competition among Grama Niladhari Offices.
(Maximum marks 20)
 * All island first place - 15 marks
 * all island second place - 12 marks
 * all island third place - 10 marks

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1902
 * first place at district competition - 08 marks
 * second place at district  - 06 marks
  competition
 * third place at district competition - 04 marks
 * first place at the competition  - 03 marks
  within divisional secretary's 
  division
 * second place at the competition  - 02 marks
  within divisional secretary's 
  division 
 * third place at the competition  - 01 marks
  within divisional secretary's 
  division
(Marks shall only be allocated for the highest 
achievement out of the achievements made at 
each level in a year) 
 (iii) Merit shown at the interview examination 
  (Maximum marks 05)
05. Qualifications.– Candidates shall have fulfilled the 
following qualifications as at the closing date of application. 
 (i) shall have completed an active and satisfactory 
service of five years in Grade I of Grama 
Niladhari service and passed the prescribed 
efficiency bar examinations,
 (ii) shall have earned the salary increments falling 
within the five years immediately proceeding 
the closing date of applications.
06. Salary Scheme :
 (i) salary code No. : MN 7-2016 (Rs. 41,580 
-11x755 -18x1,030 - Rs. 68,425)
   (Provisions of the Public administration circular 
03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 are applicable in 
preparing salaries according to this salary scale.)
 (ii) The officers promoted shall be placed on the 
salary step of this salary scale in conformity 
with the revisions made to clause 5, chapter 
Vii of the Establishment code through by 
Public administration circular No. 11/94 and 
the Public administration circular No. 7/2000.
07. Method of Application : 
 (i) a  specimen application for this examination is 
published at the end of this notification. When 
preparing the application, the name of the 
examination in the heading shall be mentioned 
in English language as well in applications 
prepared in both sinhala and tamil mediums. 
the candidates shall prepare their applications 
strictly in accordance with the specimen 
application. the application shall be prepared 
in a4 size papers using both sides of the paper. 
Number 01 to 05 of the application shall be 
included in first page while the remaining 
numbers in the rest of the pages. applications 
can be type written, but they shall be filled by 
the candidate him/herself clearly in his/her own 
handwriting, following the instructions given in 
this notification. 
 (ii) application shall be perfected in duplicate. 
the copy of the application shall be sent to the 
Divisional Secretary to be filed in the personal 
file whist the original shall be sent to the 
commissioner general of Examinations. 
 (iii) all candidates shall send their applications by 
Registered Post to reach the commissioner 
general of Examinations, organization and 
foreign Examination Branch, P.o. Box, 
1503, through the divisional secretary of the 
respective division on or before 26th september, 
2016. 
 (iv) the top left hand corner of the envelope should 
be marked, "Examination for Promotion to 
supra grade of grama Niladhari service on 
Merit Basis - 2016". the applications received 
after the closing date of application shall be 
rejected. 
 (v) No any document or a copy of such document 
shall be attached to the application. However, the 
candidate shall keep the documents mentioned 
and the documents required to prove his/her 
qualifications ready in hand, to be provided 
whenever requested. 
08. examination fee.- the examination fee is                           
Rs. 500. Examination fee should be paid at any post office 
islandwide to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1903
the commissioner general of Examinations. the receipt 
obtained thus should be affixed to the relevant cage of 
the applications form with its margin and the Receipt 
Number, Date and the Post Office should be mentioned on 
the application. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with the candidate. the fee is non-refundable. No 
money orders or stamps shall be accepted as examination 
fee and such applications shall be rejected without any  
notice. 
09.  Admission to the examination : 
 (i) commissioner general of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards in respect of each 
candidate who has submitted applications 
correctly, informing the date of the examination 
to be held. On first day of the examination, 
the candidates appearing for the examination 
should render their signature certified admission 
card to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
Without such admission card, no candidate 
shall be allowed either to enter the examination 
hall or to sit for the examination. 
 (ii) the issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate does not necessarily mean that he/
she has the requisite qualifications to sit for the 
examination. 
 (iii) all the candidates  are bound to abide by 
the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations. if 
such rules and regulations were violated, he/she 
shall be subjected to a punishment imposed by 
the commissioner general of Examinations. 
 (iv) the Head of the department shall grant duty 
leave for the candidates who possess the 
admission cards issued by the commissioner 
general of Examinations enabling them to sit 
for the examination. No traveling charge shall 
be paid. 
 (v) Identity cards.- candidates will be required 
to prove their identity to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor of the examination hall for all the 
subjects they appear at the examination. for this 
purpose any of the following will be accepted. 
 * identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons,
 * a  valid passport.
 (vi) examination Results.- As specified in the Para 
03 of this notification, a list of candidates 
who pass the written examination shall be 
provided to the secretary, Ministry of Home 
affairs. following the receipt of the relevant 
merit marks, the final priority list of results 
prepared in the order of aggregate marks, both 
at the written examination and merit, shall be 
forwarded to the secretary, Ministry of Home 
affairs as ordered by the secretary, Ministry of 
Home affairs results of the examination shall 
be either sent personally to each applicant who 
sat for the examination or shall be posted on the 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk.
10.  A notification shall be published in newspapers by 
the department of Examinations as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates. if there is an applicant 
whose admission card is not received at least five (05) 
days of such advertisement, it should be referred to the 
organization and foreign Examination division of sri 
Lanka Examinations Department in the manner specified 
in the advertisement. in making such inquiry, the name of 
the examination the candidate has applie d for, full name 
of the candidate, National identity card Number and the 
address should be clearly mentio ned. if the applicant is a 
resident outside colombo, it would be more effective to 
send a letter of request along with said information via the 
fax number mentioned in the notification, also indicating a 
fax number of the applicant in order to receive a copy of 
the admission card without delay. in making such inquiry, 
in order to prove any information requested by department 
of examination it would be useful to keep the photocopies 
of the application form, the receipt kept at your possession 
after paying the examination fee and the receipt of postal 
registration in hand. 
11. if it appears that there is any inconsistency or 
discordance between language texts in this notification, 
which is published in sinhala, tamil and English mediums, 
the notification in Sinhala medium shall be treated as the 
correct one and thus, action will be taken accordingly. 
 
neil de alwis, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of Home affairs. 
Ministry of Home affairs,
independence square, 
colombo 07, 
08th august, 2016.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1904
(For office use only)
sPEciMEN foRM of aPPLicatioN 
comPetitive examination for Promotion to suPra grade of grama niladhari on merit Basis - 2016
(No. 1-5 shall be on the first page and from No. 6 onwards shall be on the rest of pages)
Medium of Examination : 
sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
(indicate the relevant number in the cage) district where the candidate serves district number
   (indicate the district and the district number 
   as per the schedule No. 02)
town in which you wish to sit for the examination  town No. 
(indicate the town and the town number as per the schedule No. 01)
Part i
(N.B.- The application shall be filled clearly by the candidate in his/her handwriting)
01. (i) (a)  Name in full (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (eg. : HERatH MudiyaNsELagE saMaN KuMaRa guNa WaRdHaNa)
  (b) Name with initials (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (With initials at the end, eg. : guNaWaRdHaNa, H. M. s. K.)
  (c) Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02.  (i) Office Address :––––––––––––.
  (ii) address to which the admission shall be sent :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
03.   (i) divisional secretary's division :––––––––––––.
  (ii) grama Niladhari division and Number :––––––––––––.    
04.  (i) sex : Male - 0
     female  - 1
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  (ii) date of Birth : 
   y ear :–––––––. Month :–––––––.  date :–––––––. 
  (iii) National identity card No. : 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1905
05.  (i) date of appointment/absorption to the post 
holding at present and reference number and date 
of the letter :––––––––––. 
  (ii) total period of service :
   y ears :––––––. Months :–––––––.  days :––––––. 
06. if the candidate has been absorbed to grama Niladhari 
service, indicate following particulars  :––––––––––. 
 (fill the relevant paragraph only)
  (i) date of entry to the service of special service 
Officer  :––––––––––. 
   (Period of service)
  (ii) Date of entry to the Cultivation Officers' Service  
:––––––––––. 
   (Period of service)
  (iii) date of entry to the agriculture Extension service  
:––––––––––. 
   (Period of service)
  (iv) date of entry to any other similar service  :–––––. 
   (Period of service)
07. are you an old or new entrant for the purpose of 
official language policy  :––––––––––. 
08.  (i) Have you earned all the salary increments during 
the period of service  :––––––––––. 
  (ii) if not state the details  :––––––––––. 
09. if you have been released at present for the service at 
a corporation or another service, state the particulars 
:––––––––––. 
10. if you have obtained no-pay leave for a foreign 
employment or for any other purpose, state the 
particulars :––––––––––. 
11. Have any disciplinary actions being taken against you ?  
if so state the details :––––––––––. 
N. B.- As specified in the Gazette Notification, the 
receipt for the examination fee, obtained from the 
Post Office in favour of the applicant shall be affixed 
here firmly so as not to be detached.
Firmly affix the receipt by one margin so as 
not be detached
Receipt No.  :––––––––––. 
Post Office  :––––––––––. 
date  :––––––––––. 
amount in Rupees  :––––––––––. 
i, ................................ hereby certify that the above 
particulars are true and correct. i am also well aware that 
if any particular furnished herein is found to be false or 
incorrect, i am liable to be dispossessed of my rights for 
the promotion to supra grade of this service and further, 
i am liable to be subjected to disciplinary action. further, 
i declare that i have no objection for such action and i 
also agree to be bound by the orders of the commissioner 
general of Examinations. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer. 
date  :––––––––––. 
Part ii
To be filled by the Divisional Secretary 
i hereby certify that, 
  (i) the particulars provided above by Mr./Mrs./
Miss .................................. have been checked 
with his/her personal file and found to be true and 
correct. 
  (ii) the prescribe examination fee has been paid and 
the receipt is affixed.
  (iii) there is no intension to take any disciplinary 
action against the officer.
  (iv) His/her service has been satisfactory during the 
immediately preceding five years and he/she has 
been appointed to grade ....................... of grama 
Niladhari service from ................. and a copy of 
the application submitted herewith is filed in the 
officer's personal file. 
  –––––––––––––,
  divisional secretary. 
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
Official Stamp :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(delete inapplicable words)

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.08.2016
1906
ScheDuLe – no. 01
examination centers 
this examination shall be held in colombo, Kandy, 
galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mulathivu, trincomalee, 
Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, Badulla, 
Rathnapura and Kilinochchi. the relevant towns and the 
town numbers are stated in the following tabel. the relevant 
section of the application shall be filled in accordance 
with the table containing the towns and town numbers. 
applicants shall not be allowed to change the town/towns 
applied at later occasion. 
 Town Town number
colombo 001
Kandy 002
galle 003
Matara 004
Jaffna 005
Mannar 006
Mulathivu 007
trincomalee 008
Batticaloa 009
Kurunegala 010 
anuradhapura 011
Badulla 012
Rathnapura  013
Kilinochchi. 014
If any center mentioned above does not have a sufficient 
number of candidates such center shall be cancelled and 
the relevant candidates shall be directed to one of the 
nearest centers.  
Further, at a time when sufficient number applicants 
have not applied for all the proposed towns or a majority 
of towns in order for examination centers to be established, 
action will be taken by the commissioner general of 
Examinations to hold the examination only in colombo. 
ScheDuLe  – no. 02
List of District numbers
 Index District District
 no.  number
 1 colombo 001
 2 gampaha 002
 3 Kalutara 003
 4 Kandy 004
 5 Matale 005
 6 galle 006
 7 Matara 007
 8 Hambantota 008
 9 Kurunegala 009
 10 Puttalam 010
 11 Nuwara Eliya 011
 12 Rathnapura 012
 13 Badulla 013
 14 Monaragala 014
 15 Kegalle 015
 16 anuradhapura 016
 17 Polonnaruwa 017
 18 ampara 018
 19 Batticaloa 019
 20 t rincomalee 020
 21 Jaffna 021
 22 Vauniya 022
 23 Mannar 023
 24 Kilinochchi 024
 25 Mulathiwu 025
08-665/2
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.