

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1628
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"197 – 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 09 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'10'09
No. 2,197  –  fRiday ,  octobER 09, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th october, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th october, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1625 - b 82066- 5,403 (10/2020)
N. B.–  Part ii of the Gazette No. 2,196 of 02.10.2020 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1626
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1627
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1628
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
INSTITuTE  Of  TEChNOLOGy
uNIvERSITy  Of mORATuWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology 
Course, 2020/2021
aPPLicatioNS are invited from eligible candidates for 
admission to the National diploma in technology, 3-year 
fulltime course conducted by the institute of technology, 
University of Moratuwa. the course will be conducted in 
the Institute of Technology, university of moratuwa at 
Diyagama, homagama.
1. General.– the National diploma in technology 
course consists of two years of academic study and one year 
of industrial training and is conducted in English medium. 
The course is offered in the following fields of study : 
 (a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I) :
   (i) Marine Engineering technology.
   (ii) Nautical Studies and technology.
 (b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
 (i) chemical Engineering technology.
 (ii) civil Engineering technology.
 (iii) Electrical Engineering technology.
 (iv) Electronic and telecommunication Engineering 
technology.
 (v) information technology.
 (vi) Mechanical Engineering technology.
 (vii) Polymer technology.
 (viii) textile and clothing technology.
2. eligibility : 
   2.1  Age : 
 (a) applicants should be below 24 years of age on 
31.12.2019.
 (b) applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2019 
will be given preference for admission to the 
Marine Engineering technology and Nautical 
Studies and technology courses. a special 
medical test and interview would also be 
conducted for selection of students to Marine 
Engineering and Nautical Studies courses. 
 (c) those who are fulltime registered students of 
any University under the UGc (except the open 
University of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational 
institute under the Ministry of Higher Education 
are not eligible to apply. 
2.2  Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) applicants should have obtained passes in 
any three (03) of the following subjects :–
 (i) Physics,
 (ii) chemistry,
 (iii) combined Mathematics,
 (iv) advanced Mathematics.
  at one and the same sitting of a G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2017 
or 2018 or 2019.
 (b) applicants who are applying for "Marine 
Engineering technology" and "Nautical 
Studies and technology" (Set i) courses 
should have obtained a credit Pass (c) 
for English Language at G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
3. Selection Criteria : 
 3.1 Admission to the Course : 
  the selection of students for admission will 
be based on the performance at G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination and the aptitude test to be conducted 
by the institute of technology, University of 
Moratuwa. 
  from those who pass the aptitude test, selections 
will be done in the merit order of G.c.E. (a/L) 
results, i.e. in the order of z-scores. in the selection, 
40% merit and 60% district quota will be applied.
 3.2  Field of Study :
  aptitude test marks together with the applicant’s 
order of preference for the field of study as 
indicated in the field preference will be considered 
in the allocation of the field of study.
4. Application Procedure :
 4.1  Application Form :
 (i) application should be made according to 
the Specimen form given in this Gazette 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1629
Notification. Specimen application will also 
be available in the following Web address.
http://www. itum.mrt.ac.lk
 (ii) applications should be forwarded under 
Registered Post marked “NDT Admission                 
2020/2021” on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope and addressed to the assistant 
Registrar, academic and Student affairs 
division, institute of technology, University 
of Moratuwa, diyagama, Homagama.
 (iii) application should reach the assistant 
Registrar, institute of technology, University 
of Moratuwa, diyagama, on or before the 
closing date of the applications.
 (iv) a  self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope                      
(Rs. 45 worth), should be enclosed along 
with the application form.
 (v) Certified copies of G. C. E. (A/L) Certificates 
should be sent along with the application 
form and the content of the application also 
has to be certified as indicated (See cages 3 
& 5 in the form of application).
 4.2  Field Preference :
 (i) there are  two SETS of fields.
 (ii) applicants may apply to either Maritime 
Studies (SEt 1) or Other Fields (SEt  2) or 
Both sets of fields. The preference must be 
indicated if candidate applies to both sets of 
fields.
 (iii) SEt 1 - insert order of preference as 1 for 
first preference and 2 for Second preference. 
this should be completed only by the 
candidates who are applying for Maritime 
Studies.
 (iv) SEt 2 - insert order of preference as 
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 “1” for the “most preferred”, 
“2” for the next, and so on “8” for the least 
preferred. 
5.  (i)  Application Fee.– a receipt of payment in favour 
of “Institute of Technology, university of 
moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of bank of 
Ceylon, homagama branch” to the value of               
Rs. 500.00 (Rupees five Hundred) application fee 
for set i or set ii and Rs. 700.00 (Rupees Seven 
Hundred) application fee for both set i and set ii, 
obtained only from any branch of the bank of 
Ceylon should accompany each application. this 
application fee is non-refundable.
 (ii)  Closing Date.– the closing date of applications is 
13.11.2020.
6. Aptitude Test and English Language Proficiency Test.– 
applicants, short-listed according to the G. c. E. (a./L.) 
performance in Merit and district Quota will be called for 
an aptitude test and English Language Proficiency test that 
will be conducted by the institute of technology, University 
of Moratuwa.
Study materials for English Language proficiency test 
will be available in the itUM web site http://www.itum.mrt.
ac.lk
7. Registration :
 (i) candidates selected for admission will be required 
to produce the originals of the following certificates 
on the date of registration :–
 * G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
 * Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) 
Z-Score,
 * School Leaving Certificate,
 * Birth Certificate,
 * Affidavit in support of any changes in name 
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
 (i) A candidate once registered for the National 
Diploma in Technology Course will not be 
eligible for admission to any other course in this 
Institute or in any other university in Sri Lanka 
(Except Open university of Sri Lanka) or in any 
other higher Educational Institute under the 
ministry of higher Education during the tenure 
of the course.
 (ii) A student who has already registered in this 
Institute or any other university in Sri Lanka 
(Except Open university of Sri Lanka) or in 
any other higher Educational Institute is not be 
eligible for applying. 
 (iii) All the particulars in the application should 
be true and accurate. If the particulars in the 
application are found to be false or inaccurate, 
the applicant should agree for any relevant 
decision taken by the Institute. 
 competent authority.
 institute of technology,
 University of Moratuwa,
 Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1630
 
 
 aPPLicatioN  foR  adMiSSioN  to  tHE  NatioNaL  diPLoMa    For office use only
 iN  tEcHNoLoGy  coURSE 
  application No.
 InstItute of technology unIversIty of Moratuwa 
  district
 acadeMIc year - 2020/2021 
application for (Please     )
  1. Maritime fields  - Set 1 
  2. other fields - Set 2
   [applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
1.   Personal Details :    (Please use bLOCk CAPITALS)
  Name in Full :
  (as per the birth 
  Certificate)
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
  Name with Initials :
      (Leave one blank cage between name)
 Nationality    Sex Male/female
  
 age (years)    (Months) date of birth date Month y ear
 as at 31st dec. 2019    
 National id Number
2.  Contact Details :
  Address (Residence):
  
      (Leave one blank cage between different segments of the address) 
  Telephone :  Mobile
  E-mail (if available) :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1631
 3. Results of G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of examination Grades & Details obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
year
Physics
chemistry
combined Mathematics
advanced Mathematics
index Number
Z-Score . . .
Please indicate if your Z-Score is Minus 
(M)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether 2017 or 2018 or 2019)                                                                                           

 4. Medium :
  
Medium in which you wish to sit the aptitude test Sinhala English tamil
      
 5. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13 :
  
Year
 
Name &  Address of 
School District
 Period of Attendance
From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13 1st attempt
2nd attempt
3rd attempt
 6. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
  It is compulsory to certify the results under No. 3 and details under No. 5 in the application by the 
School Principal for the School Candidates and by a Justice of Peace for External Candidates.
  i certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in the cage No. 3 and No. 5 are true and accurate 
according to the original certificates.
  Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace : Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................
  
  Official Seal
                                                                                                           ......................................  
                                    Signature. 
Date :...............................

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1632
 7. field Prefe rence :
SEt 1 - insert order of preference as 1 for first preference and 2 for Second preference. this should be completed 
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime Studies.
SEt 2 - insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. ‘1’ for the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘8’ 
for the last preferred.
 Set 1 Set 2
 Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
 Marine Engineering  technology chemical Engineering technology
 Nautical Studies and technology civil Engineering  technology
  
  Electrical Engineering technology
 
  Electronic and telecommunication     
 State Priority, if applied for both sets –  
  Engineering technology
 SEt 1
  information technology
 SEt 2
  Mechanical Engineering technology
 
  Polymer technology  
  textile & clothing technology
are you registered as a fulltime student in any other University under the UGc (other than 
open  University) or any other Higher Educational institution under the Ministry of Higher 
Education ? (Please indicate yes or No)
  APPliCANT’S  DeClARATiON :
 1. i certify that all the particulars given by me in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that if the 
particulars given by me in this application are found to be false or inaccurate, i will be discontinued from the course 
at any time.
 2. i declare that i am not a fulltime registered student at any University (Except open University of Sri Lanka) or any 
Higher Educational institution under the Ministry of Higher Education.
 3. i am aware that if i am found to be registered in another University or any other Higher Educational institution 
under the Ministry of Higher Education at the time of sitting for the aptitude test for the National diploma in 
technology course, i will not be selected for the course. 
 4. in the event of my being selected for admission after the test, i shall abide by  Statutes, by-Laws, Regulations and 
the Rules of the institute of technology, University of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'09
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.10.2020
1633
 5. i have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt obtained from bank of ceylon, drawn in favour of “institute of 
technology, University of Moratuwa - account No. 0000308280 of bank of ceylon, Homagama branch”.
 6. i also enclose a self addr essed stamped envelope (Rs. 45/= worth) in size 9" x 4".
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your cash deposit/cash transfer original Slip here.
10–318
––––––––––––––––––––––––
aMENdMENt 
mINISTRy Of LANDS 
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR REcRUitMENt to PoStS of aPPRENticE SURVEyoRS iN 
SURVEy dEPaRtMENt of SRi LaNka - 2020
THE examination notification of open competitive examination for recruitment to posts of apprentice Surveyor in Survey 
department of Sri Lanka - 2020 No. 2193 and dated 11th September 2020 published in the Gazette of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka should be amended as below. accordingly the closing date of the examination mentioned in the 
para 1.5, 5(VI), 08 of the examination notification and the date mentioned in 1.5 in specimen application are amended as 
09.11.2020.
1.5  age
1.5.1 Minimum age limit : 22 years.
1.5.1 Maximum age limit : 32 years 
 (accordingly, those who were born on or before 09.11.1998 and on or after 09.11.1988 will be elligible 
to apply for this post).
 a
. l. shyaMalI chIthra lekha Perera, 
 Surveyor General. 
Survey department, 
colombo 05, 
07th day of october 2020.
10-859
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.