

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 304
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 300
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"954 – 2016 fmnrjdß ui 12 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'02'12
No. 1,954 – fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy  12, 2016
N. B.-  (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 1,953 of 05.02.2016 was not published.
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th March, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th  february, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
297

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
298
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
299
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
300
Posts – Vacant
RegistRaR   geneRal ’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
anuradhapura   district
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Birth, d eaths and Marriages registration divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as district secretariats, land and district registries, divisional secretaries offices, Grama niladhari offices, rural development 
societies and co-operative societies in the division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of district s ecretaries (Government a gents) and l and and district 
registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 14th March, 2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 registrar General.
registrar General’s department,
no. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
21st January, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications should be sent
anuradhapura n uwaragam palatha p ost of registrar of Marriages (General/ district s ecretary/additional
  c entral  Kandyan) of nuwaragam palatha   r egistrar General, district   
    division and Births and d eaths of   s ecretariat anuradhapura.
    n uwaragam Koralaya north division
02–268
––––––––––––––––
RegistRaR   geneRal ’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars of muslim marriages 
 
Kalutara   district
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages registration divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
301
04. applicants should be married.
05.  details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as district secretariats, land and district registries, divisional secretaries offices, Grama niladhari offices, rural development 
societies and co-operative societies in the division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of district s ecretaries (Government a gents) and l and and district 
registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 14th March, 
2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 registrar General.
registrar General’s department,
no. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd January, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications should be sent
Kalutara p anadura post of registrar of Muslim Marriages in district s ecretary/additional
    Eluwila area of Kalutara & panadura  r egistrar General, district   
    Thotamuna division   s ecretariat, Kalutara.
02–267
––––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION 
Recruitment to the Post of Senior Assistant Secretary (Legal), Grade I in the Executive Service 
Category of the ministry of Justice - 2016
by the order of the Public Service commission, applications are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with under mentioned 
qualifications in order to recruit suitable persons to fill the two (02) vacancies in the post of Senior Assistant Secretary (Legal), Grade I 
in the Executive Service category of the Ministry of Justice. application forms prepared as per the specimen form appended at the end 
of this notice should be sent by registered post to reach the "Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Superior courts complex, colombo 12" on 
or before the closing date of applications mentioned below. the words "Recruitment to the Post of Senior assistant Secretary (Legal), 
Grade i in the Executive Service category" should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application 
form. 
closing date of application will be 18.04.2016. 
Note.– No allegation that an application form or a document respecting such form has been lost or delayed in the post can be 
considered. applicants who delay their applications until the last day will do so at their own risk. 
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments will be made on the order of merit at a structured interview to be conducted by an 
interview board to be appointed by the Public Service commission. Number of recruitments and the date on which such recruitments 
will take effect will be decided in accordance with the order of the Public Service commission. 
02. Terms of engagement : 
 (i) this post is permanent. it is pensionable. the selected applicants are liable to contribute to the Widows' and orphans' 
Pension Scheme/Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) this appointment will be subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, Establishments code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulatons, departmental orders and any other 
regulations and orders issued from time to time by the Government. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
302
03. Salary Scale.– in terms of the Public administration circular No. 6/2006, this post which is under SL-1-2006, carries 
a salary of Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 per month and the salary will be paid upon placing at the salary step                
20 (Rs. 36,755). 
04. Qualifications.– Every applicant –
 (i) Should be an officer, in Grade I of the Executive Service Category of a Ministry or a Department in the Public 
Service,
 (ii) Should not, during the period of such service have been be subjected to any disciplinary punishment,
 (iii) Should possess a good command of English,
 (iv) Should have acquired satisfactory performance appraisal or a higher degree of satisfactory performance appraisal 
as per the approved work performance evaluation procedure during the 05 years immediately preceding the date 
on which the recruitment will be made to this post and 05 salary increments should have been earned during that 
period. 
05. Physical Fitness.– Every applicant should be in good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the island and to 
discharge the duties and functions of the post. 
06. Other Qualifications.– Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she :
 (i) is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) is of excellent moral character,
 (iii) Has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in every respect as at the closing date of applications referred to in this notice 
of calling for applications. 
07. Structured Interview.– Marks will be given by an interview board to be appointed by the Public Service commission.
Marking Scheme at the Structured interview : 
 Spheres in respect of which marks are given Maximum Maximum
  marks  marks
  that could that could  
  be given be earned
01. Additional Educational Qualifications : 
 (i) doctor of Law degree, 25 marks
 (ii) LL M obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants commission or from 20 marks 25 marks
  the Sri Lanka Law college,
 (iii) Post Graduate diploma in Law (course not less than one year), 10 marks
 (iv) Post Graduate diploma in Law (course not less six months). 05 marks
02. experience :
  Satisfactory and dynamic professional experience as a Legal Officer, Grade I in the Executive 03 marks  30 marks
  category of a Ministry or a department in the Public Service. per year
  (03 marks per year and the maximum marks should be 30)
03. Proficiency in English Language : 
 (i) LL M, LL b, Post Graduate degree, Post Graduate diploma, diploma course in Law should  20 marks
  have been followed in English Medium. (all question papers should have been answered in the 
  English Language)
 (ii) a diploma in English Language (course should be less than six months) obtained from a  15 marks 20 marks
  university recognized by the university Grants commission or from an institution approved by 
  the Government,
 (iii) A Certificate Course in English Language (Course less than three months) obtained from a  05 marks
  university recognized by the university Grants commission or from an institution approved by 
  the Government.
04. Performance at the interview : 
 (i) communication skills, 10 marks
 (ii) Management skills, 05 marks 25 marks
 (iii) Leadership skills, 05 marks
 (iv) Personality.  05 marks
  Total  100 100

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
303
09. applications should be prepared on a a4 paper of 22x29cm 
in size using both sides and item from 01 to 12 to appear on the 
first page and from 13 onwards on the second page and it should 
be filled by the candidate's own legible handwriting. Applications 
which are not in conformity with the specimen appended at 
the end of this notice or are received after the closing date of 
acceptance of applications are liable to be rejected without notice. 
incomplete applications and applications of applicants who do 
not possess the prescribed minimum requirements will also be 
rejected. therefore, applicants should see that their applications 
are as per the specimen in every respect. further, it is advisable 
that a copy of the application is retained with the applicant. 
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
Note : (a) No documents or copies of documents should 
be attached to the application form, 
 (b) applications of applicants who fail to produce 
documents when required to do so will not be 
considered, 
 (c) Applications from officers must be forwarded 
through the Secretaries to the Ministries/Heads 
of the departments. 
10. Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, 
circulars that are now if force or may be issued from time to time 
in the future and the Scheme of Recruitment applicable to Grade 
I officers in the Executive Service Categ ory of the Ministry of 
Justice and amendments made thereto from time to time shall be 
applicable to this post. 
by the order of the Public Service commission, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Justice. 
27th January, 2016. 
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM 
Public Service commiSSion 
aPPlication for the PoSt of Senior aSSiStant Secretary 
(legal), grade i in the executive Service category of the 
miniStry of juStice 
 No. :....................
 (For office use only )
01.   (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
    Name with initials (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
   (b) full Name (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
    full Name (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent address (in English block capitals) :–––––––––.
04. telephone No. :––––––––––––.
05. National identity card No. :
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. date of birth : 
 y ear :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  date :–––––––––.
08. civil status :––––––––––––.
09. Present place of work :––––––––––––.
10. Present employment :––––––––––––.
11. Where the applicant is attached to a Ministry/department : 
 (a) the date on which the appointment to a post in the 
Executive Service category was made :––––––––––––.
 (b) t he date on which the appointment to a post in Grade i in 
the Executive Service category was made :–––––––––––. 
12. Qualifications as per paragraph 08 of this notice : 
   (i) ................................
   (ii) ................................
   (iii) ................................
   (iv) ................................
   (v) ................................
13. Languages proficiency (Mark P in the relevant box) :
  Very Good Good Ordinary Weak
Sinhala
tamil
English
Applicant's Declaration 
i, ....................................... declare that the particulars 
furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i certify 
that i have not been subject to any form of disciplinary action 
including dismissal from the service or retirement for general 
inefficiency as a merciful alternative to dismissal and I have not 
vacated the post previously. i am also aware that, if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, i am liable 
to disqualification, if detected before selection and to dismissal 
without compensation, if detected after appointment. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Secretary to the Ministry/the Head of the 
Department :
i, do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..........................
......, the applicant above named is serving as ........................... 
this Ministry/department and that the particulars furnished by 
him/her in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 above are true and accurate 
and that the actions have been taken/have not been taken to 
commence any disciplinary actions or any disciplinary actions 
is being conducting/is not been conducting against him/her and 
that he/she has acquired/has not acquired a satisfactory proof or 
a higher degree of satisfactory proof of work performance as per 
the approved work performance evaluation Procedure during the 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
304
05 years immediately preceding the date on which the recruitment will be made to this post and that he/she has earned/has not earned 
05 increments during that period and that he/she has obtained/has not obtained half-pay or no-pay leave and that his/her attendance, 
work performance and conduct are satisfactory/are not satisfactory. i also inform that he/she can be/cannot be released from the service 
with/without a successor, if selected for this post. (Please delete words whichever inapplicable.)
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Secretary to the Ministry/Head of the 
  Department and official seal. 
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/department :––––––––––––.
02–396
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  fINANCE
Department of Sri Lanka Customs
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoStS of aSSiStaNt 
SuPERiNtENdENt of cuStoMS, GRadE ii of SRi 
LaNKa cuStoMS dEPaRtMENt - 2016
tHE open competitive Examination for recruitment to the 
posts of assistant Superintendent of customs, Grade ii of the 
Sri Lanka customs department will be held only in colombo by 
the commissioner General of Examinations in May 2016. the 
date of the examination will be notified in due course through the 
newspapers. the director General of customs  reserves the right 
of postponing or canceling this examination.
applications are invited for these posts from both males and 
females possessing the qualifications given below:
02. eligibility:- 
(i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the 
fact that he/she:
 (a)  is a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 (b)  is of excellent moral character,
 (c)  is not less than 22 years and not more than 28 
years of age, as at the closing date of applications. 
(accordingly candidates who have the date of birth 
on or after 14.03.1994 and on or before 14.03.1988 
are eligible to apply for the examination)  
Note :- No person ordained in any religious sect shall be 
permitted to sit this examination.
(ii) Physical requirements: in the case of males, their 
height should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and 
chest not less than 33 inches (When expanded). in 
the case of females their height should not be less 
than 5 feet 3 inches.
(III)  Educational qualifications: The candidates must 
possess the following educational qualifications:- 
 (a)  a degree obtained from a recognized university; 
  and 
 (b)  at least a credit pass in English language as a 
subject at the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level) Examination (English language 
as an optional subject is not considered) ;
  or 
 (c)  a Simple pass (Minimum) in English Language 
as a subject at the General Certificate of Education 
(advanced Level) Examination.
Note: No person will be eligible to sit this examination, 
on pending results of a degree examination. However 
a person who has passed a degree of a recognized 
university may be permitted to sit this examination, 
when an official letter obtained from the Registrar 
of the university is produced to the effect, that he/
she has passed the degree examination.
03. Conditions of Service :
 (i)  Salary: the consolidated monthly salary scale attached 
to the post is as follows:-  
  Rs.16,720- 320x10-365x11-450x15 Rs. 30,685 (Public 
administration circular No. 6/2006 (iV) MN 5 - 2006 a)
 (ii)  the post is permanent and pensionable and should 
contribute to the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and 
orphans’ Pension Scheme.
 (iii)  Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a 
probationary period of three years with effect from the 
date of appointment.
 (iv)  the appointees must undergo a medical examination 
held by a Government Medical Officer to test whether 
he/she is physically fit to serve in any part of the island. 
 (v) the appointees are bound to serve day and night in any 
part of the island.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
305
 (vi)  the attention is invited to the General conditions 
applicable to the posts in public Service which have 
been published at the beginning of part i: Section (iia) 
of the Government Gazette Notification.
04. Scheme of examination.- the Scheme of examination for 
recruitment is as follows :
            Marks 
(01)  aptitude test ( 01 Hour )                 100
(02)  English Language ( 01 ½ hours )      100
             total   200
Aptitude paper – this paper will consist of questions to 
test the language skills, the ability in mathematical 
and logical reasoning. (this paper will consist of 50 
multiple questions and questions for short answers). all 
questions should be answered.
English Language paper - this paper will test the reading, 
writing, comprehension and communication skills of 
the candidates. all questions should be answered.
Note:-  this examination will be conducted in the 
Languages media of Sinhala, tamil and English. 
candidates should sit this examination in the 
same medium in which they passed the qualifying 
examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) of this 
notification or in an Official Language. Candidates 
will not be permitted to change the language 
medium applied. 
 (i)  Marks will be deducted for unclear 
handwriting and wrong spelling. 
 (ii) admission cards of the examination will 
be sent to the eligible candidates by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
the receipt of an admission card must not be 
treated as a fulfillment of qualifications to sit 
the examination.  
 (iii) Evaluation: candidates who score 60% or 
more each paper will be listed in a priority 
list. No. of candidates Participate to the No. 
of vacancies will be called for the structured 
interview starting from the candidate who has 
obtained the highest marks. Maximum of 10 
marks will be awarded for the sports talents 
at the structured interview. No marks will 
be awarded at the general interview and will 
consider only the marks obtained at the written 
examination and the structured interview. 
Information regarding the qualifications 
submitted will be verified at the interview.
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview :
Marks for individual sports at the zonal level : 3 marks 
for the first place, 2 marks for the second place, and 
1 mark for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the district level : 4 marks 
for the first place, 3 marks for the second place, and 
2 marks for the third place. 
Marks for individual sports at the national level : 5 
marks for the first place,4 marks for the second 
place and 3 marks for the third place
Marks for a member of a team game at the zonal level: 
3 marks for the first place,2 marks for the second 
place, and 1 mark for the third place.
Marks for member of a team game at the district level: 
4 marks for the first place, 3 marks for the second 
place, and 2 marks for the third place.
Marks for a member of a team game at the national 
level:
5 marks for the first place 4 marks for the second place 
and 3 marks for the third place.
05. Basis of Selection .- candidates who are successful at 
the written examination and the interview will be selected for 
recruitment to the vacant cadre approved by the Ministry of 
finance. a maximum of 10% of the vacancies will be reserved 
for female candidates.
 (i) Release of results.- the department of Examinations 
will be prepared and sent the result list to the director 
General of customs in order of merit from among 
those who have sat the written examination, presented 
themselves for the interview and scored the highest 
aggregate of marks. the department of Examination 
will issue the result to all candidates whose sat the 
examination by post or will publish in official website 
www.resualts.examination.gov.lk
  
Note:- the nature of the work in customs department is 
such that even the female officers will have to attend 
to night duties.
06. it is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should 
have fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of closing 
applications for the examination.  
07. Method of application:-
 (i) a specimen form of the application has been given 
at the end of this notification. Candidates should 
prepare their application forms themselves in the 
medium on which they intend to sit the examination 
conforming to the specimen form referred to above 
and fill them in their own handwriting. Every cage 
of the application must be filled by the candidates as 
instructed and if there are cages not applicable, the 
words “not applicable” should be entered such cages. 
it must be noted strictly that leaving blank cages in 
the application will cause the applications liable to be 
rejected. (Heading numbers 01 to 06 of the specimen 
form should be on the first page, 07 to 11 in the second 
page , and the rest in the third page of the application 
that need to be prepared in a4 size papers). the title 
of the examination should be written in English too, in 
Sinhala and tamil applications. Keeping a copy of the 
duly filled application may be concern advantages.
 (ii) the completed application form must be sent under 
registered post on or before 14.03.2016 to reach the 
commissioner General of Examinations, organization 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
306
and foreign Examinations branch, department 
of Examinations, P.o. box 1503, colombo. any 
applications received after the due date will be rejected. 
the name of the examination should be written clearly 
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. (it is advised to retain a photo 
copy of the filled application with the candidate). 
 (iii) the examination fee is Rs. 750. this fee should be 
paid at any Post Office/ Sub Post office to the credit 
of the revenue head number 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt 
must be attached to the application and it is advised to 
retain a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. 
this fee will not be refunded under any circumstances. 
 (iv) candidates who are already employed in Government 
departments/ corporations/ boards must forward their 
applications through the Heads of their department 
or institutions in which they are serving at present. 
candidates are requested to forward their applications 
to heads of their departments or institution well on 
time with a request that they be transmitted to the 
commissioner General of Examinations so as to reach 
him on or before 14.03.2016. the applications should 
not be sent addressed personally to the director General 
of Customs or any other officer of the Department. 
applications received after the due date; even if they 
are forwarded by the departments will be rejected. if 
the attestation of the signature of an applicant who is 
in Government Service does not bear the signature and 
the official seal of the head of Department/ Head of the 
institution, such applications will be rejected. 
 (v)   Attestation:- the signature of an applicant who is in 
Government Service should be attested by his/her 
Head of Department or by an officer authorized to 
do so on his behalf. the signature of other applicants 
should be attested by a person authorized to do so, i.e a 
Justice of Peace, a commissioner of oaths, attorney - 
at - Law, a Notary Public, a Principal of a Government 
or a Government Managed School, a commissioned 
Officer of the Navy, Air Force or Army, a permanent 
Public Officer drawing an annual salary of  Rs. 240,360 
or over, a chief incumbent or a Head of a buddhist 
temple or any other religion in charge of a place of 
worship or holding a position of importance.
08. (i) Admission to the examination:- the commissioner 
General of Examination will issue admission card to 
the candidates who have forwarded duly perfected 
applications within the age limit along with the receipt 
of payment of examination fee on or before the closing 
date of examination mentioned in the notification 
is applicable, medium of examination,  signature 
of the applicant and the attestation of the signature, 
certification of the Head of Department if necessary, 
on the presumption that only those who possess the 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette Notification 
have applied. the department of Examinations 
notifies in the news papers the issuance of admission 
card immediately after their issuance, if a candidate 
does not receive his/her admission card even after 
two or three days of such advertisement steps should 
be taken to notify the department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be 
advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of 
calling the department of Examination ; i.e. applicant 
name, address, identity card Number, Name of the 
examination applied and  your letter of request stating 
the fax number which the admission card should be 
sent if the candidates is resident out of colombo. 
 (ii) a  candidate must sit the examination hall assigned 
to him/her. Every candidate must get his signature 
attested in advance and hand over the admission card to 
the supervisor on the first day he/she presents himself/
herself for the examination. a candidate who fails to 
produce his/her admission card will not be permitted 
to sit the examination. the rules for candidates are 
given separately in part i: Section ii (a) of this Gazette 
notification. Candidates will be bound to observe these 
rules. 
Note :- the issue of an admission card to candidate does 
not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination.
09. Identity of the candidates :- candidates will be required 
to prove their identity. any of the following documents will be 
accepted for this purpose:
 (a) National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Person.
 (b)  A valid passport issued no more than five years before 
the date of examination.
  the candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a 
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner General Examinations.
10. Documents of eligibility :–
 (i) No documents, certificates or photocopies of such 
certificates. Other than the receipt of examination fee and 
the document relating to the “Note” at heading 02 where 
application should be forwarded with the application. 
but the necessary particulars should be provided in 
the form, as prescribed. an application which is not 
completed conforming to these requirements will be 
judged on its own merits and may be rejected.
 (ii) Candidates, who have qualified to be called for the 
interview, should prove their eligibility by producing 
document proof. 
 (iii) the originals of the following documents will be 
required:
 (a)  A certificate of moral character signed by a responsible 
person.
Note: The certificate of character may be obtained 
from a Justice of the Peace, attorney – at - law, 
divisional Secretary of the area of residence, or 
a permanent Government officer in receipt of an 
annual consolidated salary of Rs.240,360 or over 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
307
or some person who issue the certificate must be 
clearly indicated on the certificate. (Candidates 
holding permanent posts in Government service 
will not be required to furnish certificates of moral 
character).
(a)   A certified copy of the entry of the 
registration of the birth of candidate or a 
Special Certificate of age issued by the 
Register General (in the case of candidates 
whose birth has been not registered).
 Note:
(i)  The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school or 
educational purposes, or a certified extract from the 
birth registration entry will not be accepted.
 (ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be 
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.
 (iii) If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate 
differs/differ from the name/names which the 
candidate generally uses and under which the 
candidate sits the examination, action should be 
taken immediately in terms of Section 27 and 28 as 
the case may be, of the births and deaths Registration 
act, (chapter 110) to get the name in the entry of the 
registration of birth amended.
 (iv) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka 
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to 
citizenship by descent (where applicable).
 (v) Original certificate of educational qualifications or 
where the certificate has not been issued, other official 
documents. e.g. an official letter issued by a Registrar 
of a university to the effect that the candidate has 
passed the degree of examination result sheet issued 
to the candidate by the department of Examinations, 
stating that he/she has obtained a credit pass in 
English language at the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level) examination or simple 
pass in English language at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) examination.
 (vi) documentary proof of achievements of sports at 
Zonal/ district/National levels.
 (vii) candidates are warned to have all the necessary 
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding 
the application. any candidate who fails to produce 
the necessary documents or who delay in producing 
them when called for will be made disqualified for 
appointment to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars.- if a candidate 
is found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this 
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any 
stage prior to, during or after the examination.  if any of the 
particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false to best 
of his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any 
material fact, or if it is proved, at any time during the period of 
his/her service that he/she was ineligible to sit the examination, 
he/she will be liable to immediate dismissal from the service. 
the candidature of those who do not strictly conform to the 
requirements laid down in this notification will be cancelled. 
12.  any matter not provided for in these regulations will be 
dealt with at the discretion of the director General of customs.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English text of this Gazette  Notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
  director General of customs. 
Sri Lanka customs,
"customs House"
No.40, Main Street,
colombo 11.
(for office use only) 
SPECiMEn APPLiCAtiOn FOrM
OPEN  COmPETITIvE  EXAmINATION  fOR 
RECRuITmENT  TO  ThE  POSTS  Of  ASSISTANT 
SuPERINTENDENT  Of  CuSTOmS,  GRADE  II  Of  
SRI  LANkA  CuSTOmS  DEPARTmENT – 2016
Medium in which you sit this examination: 
Sinhala  – 2 
tamil – 3 
English  – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
01. 
 1.1 Name in full :––––––––––.
  (English   capital  letters) (ex. HERatH      MudiyaNSELaGE 
SaMaN  KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
  (English capital letters): 
  ex. GuNaWaRdHaNa. H.M.S.K
 1.3 Name in full : (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  Permanent residential address: (English capital letters) :                    
––––––––.
 address to which the admission card should be sent: (English 
capital letters) :––––––––––.
 
03. Particulars of the National identity card :
 3.1 Number of the identity card:
 3.2 date of issue: 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
308
04.  Sex :
 Male       – 0 
 female  – 1 
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka
 by descent  – 1       
 by registration – 2
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
06. Ethnicity: 
      Sinhalese  – 1 ceylon tamil  – 2
      indian tamil  – 3 Muslim  – 4
      burgher  – 5 other  – 6
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. (a) date of birth : 
  y ear Month date
           
     (b) age on the closing date of application:
  y ears Months days
  
08. Physical requirements: 
 (i)  Height :  feet :––––––––.   inches :–––––––––.  
 (ii)  chest (when expanded) :..................  inches   
(only for male candidate)
09. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the court of 
Law? (yes/No) :––––––––––.  
 if yes, give detai ls :––––––––––.  
10. Educational Qualifications:
  Name of the Degree Class of Year Subjects
  University  Degree
 (i) Highest qualification in English Language at the 
examination of General Certificate of Education (ordinary 
Level)
  y ear :––––––––––.  
  index No. :––––––––––.  
 
 (ii) Highest qualification in English Language at the examination 
of General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
  y ear :––––––––––. 
  index No. :––––––––––. 
11. Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
 (i) Name of the Post Office/ Sub Post  Office :––––––––––. 
 (ii) amount Paid : Rs. :––––––––––.  
 (iii)  date of payment :––––––––––.  
 (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––.  
Paste the receipt here securely
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy
with the candidate)
12. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification:
i, do hereby that the particulars given by me in the application 
are true and correct. i am aware that if any particulars contained 
herein are found to be false or incorrect, i am liable to 
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance after 
selection. furthermore, i would abide by rules and regulations 
of the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conducting of the examination.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.  
13. attestation of applicant’s signature (delete whichever 
inapplicable):
i, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is 
submitting this application is personally known to me and that 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this …………
day of ………………….. i also certify that he/she has paid the 
due examination fee and has attached the paid receipt.
Signature of attester :––––––––––.  
full Name of attester :––––––––––.  
designation :––––––––––.  
address :––––––––––.  
date:––––––––––.  
Note: the attestation should be made by a person referred 
to in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification. 
14. i, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is 
submitting this application is an employee of this Ministry/ 
department/ board/ corporation. in the event of his/her 
selection for the above post he/she can be released. 
 ––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
 (Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––.  
Name of the Head of the department :––––––––––.  
designation :––––––––––.  
address of the department :––––––––––.  
02–306

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
309
certain examination centre is not established in a certain district 
due to insufficient candidates, they are referred to a Centre as per 
their second choice and if the second choice too cannot be granted 
they are referred to centre closest to that district. changes will 
not be allowed later with regard to the requested town. 
applications are invited for these posts from both sexes 
possessing the qualifications given below:
02. eligibility:-
 (i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the 
fact that he/she:
 (a)  is a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 (b)  is of excellent moral character,
 (c)  is not less than 18 years and not more than 24years 
of age on the date of closing of applications. 
(accordingly candidates who have the date of birth on 
or after 14.03.1998 and on or before 14.03.1992 are 
eligible to apply for the examination)  
Note :- No person ordained in any religious sect shall be 
permitted to sit this examination.
(ii) Physical requirements: in the case of males, their 
height should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and 
chest not less than33 inches (When expanded).
 
 in the case of females their height should not be less 
than 5 feet 3 inches.
(iii) Educational qualifications : the candidates must 
possess the following educational qualifications:- 
 (a)  Pass three main subjects in one sitting at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) ; and 
 (b)  Pass within two sittings six subjects at the General 
Certificates of Education (Ordinary Level) with five 
credit passes including credit passes for Sinhala 
Language or tamil Language, and Mathematics as 
main subjects and least a simple pass for English 
Language. 
03. Conditions of Service :–
 (i) Salary: the consolidated monthly salary scale attached 
to the post is as follows:- 
  Rs.14,280-145x7-180x10-240x17 - Rs. 21,175.
  (Public administration circular No. 6/2006(iV) 
-R-S-i-2006)
 (ii) the post is permanent and pensionable and should 
contribute to the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ 
and orphans’ Pension Scheme.
 (iii) Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a 
probationary period of three years with effect from the 
date of appointment.
 (iv) the appointees must undergo a medical examination 
held by a Government Medical Officer to test whether 
they are physically fit to serve in any part of the Island.
mINISTRy Of fINANCE 
Department of Sri Lanka Customs 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of iNSPEctoR of 
cuStoMS, GRadE ii of SRi LaNKa cuStoMS 
dEPaRtMENt – 2016
tHE open competitive Examination for recruitment to 
the post of inspector of customs, Grade ii of the Sri Lanka 
customs department will be held in May 2016 in main towns 
throughout the island mentioned in the Schedule i hereto. the 
date of the examination will be notified in due course through 
the newspapers by the department of Examinations. the director 
General of customs reserves the right of postponing or canceling 
this examination.
centers where examination will be held there numbers.
ScHEduLE i
 Province City City number
Western colombo 01
 Gampaha 02
 Kaluthara 03
central Kandy 04
 Mathale 05
 Nuwaraeli 06
Southern Galle 07
 Mathara 08
 Hambanthota 09 
Northern Jaffna 10
 Mannar 11
 Vavnia 12
 Mulathev 13
 Kilinochchi 14 
Eastern battichalow 15
 ampara 16
 t rinkomalee 17 
North West Kurunegala 18
 Puttalam 19
North central anuradhapura 20
 Polonnaru 21
uva badulla 22
 Monaragala 23 
Sabaragamu Rathnapura 24
 Kegalle 25
the number and town in which the applicant whishes to sit 
for the examination should be indicate clearly. in the event of a 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
310
 (v) the appointees are bound to serve day and night on any 
part of the island.
 (vi) the attention is invited to the General conditions 
applicable to the post in Public Service which have 
been published at the beginning of Part i: Section (iia) 
of the Government Gazette notification.
04. Scheme of examination – there are following three (03) 
question papers for the scheme of examination for recruitment:- 
     
 Marks 
(01)  aptitude test   100
(02)  Mathematics   100
(03)  English Language    100
                           total    300
Aptitude paper – this paper will consist of questions to test 
the language skills, the ability in logical reasoning (this paper 
will consist of 50 multiple questions and questions for short 
answers). all questions should be answered.
Mathematics Paper – this paper will consist of questions to 
test the ability in mathematics. all questions should be answered.
English Language paper - this paper will test the reading, 
writing, comprehension and communication skills of the 
candidates. . all questions should be answered.
Note.– (this examination will be conducted in the Languages 
media of Sinhala, tamil and English. candidates should sit 
this examination in the same medium in which they passed 
the qualifying examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) 
of this notification or in an Official Language. Candidates 
will not be permitted to change the language medium 
applied. 
 (ii)  Marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting and 
wrong spelling.
 (iii)  admission cards of the examination will be sent to the 
eligible candidates by the commissioner General of 
Examination. the receipt of an admission card must 
not be treated as a fulfillment of qualifications to sit the 
examination.
 (iv)  Evaluation: Marks of 60% or above for each question 
paper will be totaled and will be arranged in the 
descending order. No of candidates participate to the no 
of vacancies will be called for the structured interview 
starting from the candidate who has obtained the 
highest marks. Maximum of 10 marks will be awarded 
for the sports talents at the structured interview. No 
marks will be awarded at the general interview and 
will consider only the marks obtained at the written 
examination and the structured interview. information 
regarding the qualifications submitted will be verified 
at the interview. 
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview:
Marks for individual sports at the zonal level:
3 marks for the first place, 2 marks for the second place, 
and 1 mark for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the district level:
4 marks for the first place, 3 marks for the second place, 
and 2 marks for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the national level:
5 marks for the first place, 4 marks for the second place, 
and 3 marks for the third place.
05. Basic of selection.– candidates who are successful at 
the written examination and the interview will be selected for 
recruitment to the vacant cadre approved by the Ministry of 
finance. a maximum of 10% of the vacancies will be reserved 
for female candidates.
 (i)  Release of results: - the department of Examinations 
will be prepared and sent the result list to the director 
General of customs in order of merit from among 
those who have sat the written examination, presented 
themselves for the interview and scored the highest 
aggregate of marks. the department of Examination 
will issue the result to all candidates whose sat the 
examination by post or will publish in official website 
www.resualts.examination.gov.lk
Note: the nature of the work in customs department is such 
that even the female staff has to work the night duties.
06. it is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should 
have fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of closing 
applications for the examination.
07. Method of application :–
 (i) a  specimen form of the application has been given at 
the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare 
their application forms themselves in the medium on 
which they intend interview to sit the examination 
conforming to the specimen form referred to above 
and fill them in their own handwriting. Every cage 
of the application must be filled by the candidates as 
instructed and if there are cages not applicable, the 
word “not applicable” should be entered in such cages. 
it must be noted strictly that leaving blank cages in the 
application liable to be rejected. (Heading numbers 
01 to 05 of the specimen form should be on the first 
page, 06 to 11 in the second page, and the rest in the 
third page of the application that need to be prepared 
in a4 size papers.) the title of the examination 
should be written in English too in Sinhala and tamil 
applications.
 (ii) the completed application form must be sent 
under registered post on or before 14.03.2016 to 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
311
reach the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations branch, 
department of Examinations, P.o. box -.1503, 
colombo. any applications received after the due date 
will be rejected. the name of the examination should 
be written clearly on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope in which the application is enclosed. (it is 
advised to retain a photo copy of the filled application 
with the candidate) 
 (iii) Examination fee of Rs.500/= may be paid at any Post 
office/Sub Post office to the credit of revenue head 
number 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations. the receipt must be attached  to the 
application and it is advised to retain a photocopy 
of the receipt with the candidate this fee will not 
berefunded under any circumstances
 (iv) candidates who are already employed in 
Government department /boards/ corporations 
must forward their applications through the Head 
of their departments or institutions in which they 
are serving at present. candidates are requested 
to forward their applications to heads of their 
departments or institutions well on time with a 
request that they be transmitted to the commissioner 
General of Examinations so as to reach him on or 
before 14.03.2016
  the application should not be sent addressed 
personally to the director General of customs or 
any other officer of the Department. Applications 
received after the due date; even if they are 
forwarded by the departments will be rejected. if the 
attestation of the signature of an applicant who is in 
Government Service does not bear the signature and 
the official seal of the head of department/ Head of 
the institution, such applications will rejected.
 (v) attestation – the signature of an applicant who is 
in Government Service should be attested by his/her 
Head of Department or by an officer authorized to do 
so on his behalf.
  the signature of other applicants should be attested 
by a person authorized to do so, i.e., a Justice of the 
Peace, a commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-low, 
a Notary Public, a Principal of a Government or a 
Director Managed School, a Commissioned officer 
of the Navy, air force or army, a permanent public 
officer drawing an annual salary of Rs. 240,360/= 
or over, a chief incumbent or a Head of a buddhist 
temple or any other religion in charge of a place of 
worship or holding a position of importance.
08. (i) Admission to the examination- the commissioner 
General of Examination will issue admission card to 
the candidates who have forwarded duly perfected 
applications within the age limit along with the 
receipt of payment of examination fee on or before 
the closing date of examination mentioned in the 
notification is applicable, medium of examination,  
signature of the applicant and the attestation of the 
signature, certification of the Head of department 
if necessary, on the presumpti on that only those 
who possess the qualifications mentioned in the 
Gazette Notification have applied. The Department 
of Examinations notifies in the news papers the 
issuance of admission card immediately after 
their issuance, if a candidate does not receive his/
her admission card even after two or three days 
of such advertisement steps should be taken to 
notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. It would 
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the 
time of calling the department of Examination ; i.e. 
applicant name, address, identity card Number, 
Name of the examination applied and  your letter of 
request stating the fax number which the admission 
card should be sent if the candidates is resident out 
of colombo.
 (ii) a candidate must sit the examination hall assigned 
to him/her. Every candidate must get his signature 
attested in advance and hand over the admission 
card to the supervisor on the first day he/she 
presents himself/herself for the examination. a 
candidate who fails to produce his/her admission 
card will not be permitted to sit the examination. 
the rules for candidates are given separately in 
part i: Section ii (a) of this Gazette  notification. 
candidates will be bound to observe these rules. 
Note.– the issue of an admission card to candidate does 
not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination.
09. Identity of the candidates :- candidates will be required 
to prove their identity. any of the following documents will be 
accepted for this purpose:
 (a) an identity card issued by the department of Registration 
of Person. 
 (b)  A valid passport issued no more than five years before 
the date of examination.
  the candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a 
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner General Examinations.
10. Documents of eligibility :–
(i) No documents, certificates or photocopies of such 
certificates. Other than the receipt of examination 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
312
fee should be forwarded with the application. but the 
necessary particulars should be provided in the form, as 
prescribed. 
 (ii) the originals of the following documents will be 
required: 
 (a)  A certificate of moral character signed by a responsible 
person.
Note – The certificate of character may be obtained 
from a Justice of the Peace, attorney - at – law, 
divisional Secretary of the area of residence, or 
a permanent Government officer in receipt of an 
annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or over 
or some person who issue the certificate must be 
clearly indicated on the certificate.
(candidates holding permanent posts in Government 
service will not be required to furnish certificates of 
moral character.)
(b) A certified copy of the entry of the registration of the 
birth of candidate or a Special Certificate of age issued 
by the Register General (in the case of candidates 
whose birth has been not registered),
 (i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school or 
educational purposes, or a certified extract from the 
birth registration entry will not accepted.
 (ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be 
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.
  If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate 
differs/differ from the name/names which the 
candidate generally uses and under which the 
candidate sits the examination, action should be 
taken immediately in terms of Section 27 or 28 as the 
case may be, of the births and deaths Registration 
act, (chapter 110) to get the name in the entry of the 
registration of birth amended.
 (iii) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka 
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to 
citizenship by descent (where applicable).
 (iv) Original certificate of educational qualifications 
or where the certificate has not been issued, other 
official documents.
 (v) documentary proof of achievements of sports at 
zonal/ district/national levels.
 (vi) candidates are warned to have all the necessary 
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding 
the application. any candidate who fails to produce 
the necessary documents or who delay in producing 
them when called for will be made disqualified for 
appointment to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars – if a candidate 
is found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this 
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any 
stage prior to, during or after the examination.
if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to 
be false to best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully 
suppressed any material fact, or if it is proved, at any time during 
the period of his/her service that he/she was ineligible to sit the 
examination, he/she will be liable to immediate dismissal from the 
service. the candidature of those who do not strictly conform to 
the requirements laid down in this notification will be cancelled. 
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations will be 
dealt with at the discretion of the director General of customs.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English text of this Gazette  Notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
  director General of customs. 
Sri Lanka customs,
"customs House"
No.40, Main Street,
colombo 11.
(for office use only) 
SPECiMEn APPLiCAtiOn FOrM
OPEN COmPETITIvE EXAmINATION fOR 
RECRuITmENT TO ThE POSTS Of  INSPECTOR 
Of CuSTOmS, GRADE II Of SRI LANkA CuSTOmS 
DEPARTmENT – 2016
Medium in which you sit this examination: 
Sinhala  – 2 
tamil – 3 
English  – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
town selected and the town Number 
(See the Schedule i)
  Town Town Number
1st choice
2nd choice
01. 
 1.1 Name in full :––––––––––.
  (English   capital   letters) (ex. HERatH   MudiyaNSELaGE 
SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
  (English capital letters): 
  ex. GuNaWaRdHaNa. H.M.S.K

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
313
 1.3 Name in full : (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  Permanent residential address: (English capital letters) :                    
––––––––.
 address to which the admission card should be sent: (English 
capital letters) :––––––––––.
03. Particulars of the National identity card :
 3.1 Number of the identity card:
 3.2 date of issue: 
04.  Sex :
 Male       – 0 
 female  – 1 
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka
 by descent  – 1       
 by registration – 2
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
06. Ethnicity: 
      Sinhalese  – 1 ceylon tamil  – 2
      indian tamil  – 3 Muslim  – 4
      burgher  – 5 other  – 6
 (Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. (a) date of birth : 
  y ear Month date
           
     (b) age on the closing date of application:
  y ears Months days
  
08. Physical requirements: 
 (i)  Height :  feet :––––––––.   inches :–––––––––.  
 (ii)  chest (when expanded) :–––––––––  inches    
(only for male candidate)
09. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the court of 
Law? (yes/No) :––––––––––.  
 if yes, give details :––––––––––.  
10. Educational Qualifications:
 (i) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) in 
one sitting :  
   y ear of examination :––––––––––.  
   index Nmber :––––––––––.  
  Subjects Performance 
 (ii) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
 Subjects Performance  Year Index Number
 (iii) Have you obtained a simple pass for English Language at 
the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) ? 
(yes/No)
11. Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
 (i) Name of the Post Office/ Sub Post  Office :––––––––––. 
 (ii) amount Paid : Rs. :––––––––––.  
 (iii)  date of payment :––––––––––.  
 (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––.  
Paste the receipt here securely
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy
with the candidate)
12. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification:
i, do hereby that the particulars given by me in the 
application are true and correct. i am aware that if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, i am liable 
to disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance 
after selection. furthermore, i would abide by rules and regulation 
of the commissioner General of Examination regarding the 
conducting of the examination.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.  
13. attestation of applicant’s signature (delete whichever 
inapplicable):
i, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is 
submitting this application is personally known to me and that 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this …………
day of ………………….. i also certify that he/she has paid the 
due examination fee and has attached the paid receipt.
Signature of attester :––––––––––.  
full Name of attester :––––––––––.  
designation :––––––––––.  
address :––––––––––.  
date:––––––––––.  
Note: the attestation should be made by a person referred 
to in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
314
14. i, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is 
submitting this application is an employee of this Ministry/ 
department/ board/ corporation. in the event of his/her 
selection for the above post he/she can be released. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
 (Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––.  
Name of the Head of the department :––––––––––.  
designation :––––––––––.  
address of the department :––––––––––.  
02–307
––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  hOmE  AffAIRS
Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III 
of Grama Niladhari Service - 2016
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from male and female 
candidates who have possessed following qualifications to sit for 
a written examination held for selecting qualified candidates for 
appointment to the post of Grama Niladhari in Grama Niladhari 
divisions in divisional Secretary's divisions all over the island, 
where vacancies are existing. 
02. a candidate can apply for vacancies existing in the 
divisional Secretary's division for which the candidate become 
qualified for applying as per provisions mentioned in section 06. 
03. Particulars of the divisional Secretary's divisions and the 
district to which such divisional Secretariats belong are given in 
Schedule 1. candidates should indicate the divisional Secretary's 
division for which he/she wish to apply and the number of the 
division and the name and the number of the district in the correct 
place in the application as indicated in the Schedule. candidates 
are not allowed to change such particulars at later occasions. No 
request made regarding any disadvantage caused to the candidate 
due to such incorrect entry will be considered. further the 
applications in which the name and the number of the divisional 
Secretary's division are not mentioned, will be rejected. 
04. Particulars of the competitive examination : 
 4.1 Medium of the examination : 
  this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English medium within the districts given in the 
schedule. However with regard to districts where 
sufficient number of candidates have not applied, they 
will be assigned to an examination centre of another 
district located closely. candidates should sit for the 
examination only in one language medium. candidates 
will not be allowed to change the medium of language 
applied by them later. 
4.2 Examination for recruitment of Grama Niladharies will 
consist of 02 question papers in the following manner. 
  Subject No.  Subject  Duration  Marks
  01. Language ability 1 1/2 hour 100
  02. General Knowedge 1 1/2 hour 100
    and aptitude
 4.3 Syllabus : 
4.3.1 Language Ability.– this paper consists of subject 
related questions to test the expression of ideas, 
comprehension, spelling, language and writing, 
drafting a given letter, summarizing given texts, 
expressing the idea of several sentences in a single 
sentence and knowledge on using simple grammar. 
all questions should be answered. 
4.3.2 General Knowledge and Aptitude. – this question 
paper consists of questions in the pattern of multi-
selection and short-replying to test the general 
knowledge of the candidate including knowledge of 
historical, geographical, social, economic matters 
with local and foreign interest, general intelligent 
on current local and international news and 
numerical abilities, power of reasoning, problem 
solving and decision making. all questions should 
be answered. 
 4.4  When the priority list of successful candidates is 
prepared based on the marks obtained at the written 
examination, only those who secure a minimum 
of 40% or more marks for each subject will be 
considered. 
05. Method of Recruitment : 
 (i) a  number of candidates equivalent to twice the number 
of vacancies existing in each divisional Secretary's 
division out of those who have secured highest marks 
at the written examination at the level of divisional 
Secretary's division will be called for a  structured 
interview. Candidates who become qualified securing 
highest marks based on the aggregate marks of both 
written examination and structured interview will 
be selected for a training course in order to fill the 
•number of vacancies in the respective Divisional 
Secretary's division. 
 (ii) Marks will be allocated at the structured interview 
mentioned in Para 5.(i) of above in the following 
manner. 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
315
  (a) 
 
 Titles Under which marks are allocated Maximum marks  
   
Leadership  20 
Sports skills  10 
Language Proficiency (proficiency in  10   
 other language except mother languages)  
computer literacy  05 
Skills proved at the interview  05 
total  50  
 
(b) For the purpose of allocating marks only the certificates 
issued properly by a public institution, department and 
letters of confirmation issued by officers at staff level 
in departments and institutions who are responsible to 
prove the field for which such certificates are issued. 
Eg: Divisional Secretary should confirm the facts such 
as engagement as a teacher of daham School, holding a 
post in a rural development committee or a sports club 
etc. 
(c) Grama Niladharies are not entitled to exercise political 
rights. therefore, no marks will be allocated for holding 
posts in organizations dealing with politics. 
 
eg: holding posts such as member of a Predishiya Sabha/
urban council, member of a board of directors of 
cooperative Societies for which candidates are 
selected through political party system. 
 (iii) the training course of which the duration is three 
months will be conducted under the supervision of 
district Secretary. those who are recommended 
by the district Secretary as having completed the 
training course successfully will be appointed by me 
to grade iii of Grama Niladhari. only an allowance 
of Rs 3000/= will be paid during the training period 
and further, the candidates shall prove at least 80% 
of attendance during the training period and they are 
required to secure 50% of the marks to pass in the 
written test conducted under training program. the 
period of training shall not be counted for the period of 
service but it can be made relevant for the calculation 
of pension subject to the provisions of the Pension 
Minute. 
 (iv) in case where there are several candidates who have 
secured the same marks for one or several vacancies, 
the final decision to fill such vacancy or vacancies will 
be taken by me. 
06. Qualifications to be satisfied by candidates. – candidates 
should have satisfied at least following qualifications on or before 
the closing date of applications. 
 6.1.  the candidate should have resided at least for three 
(03) years within the divisional Secretary's division 
to which he seeks to be appointed during the six 
years immediately preceding the closing date of 
applications. Further, it should be confirmed by one of 
the followings :
 (i) an extract from V oters Registers,
 (ii) A certificate issued by Grama Niladhari and 
countersigned by divisional Secretary.
 6.2.  Age Limit. -Should be not less than 21 years of age and 
not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of 
applications. 
 6.3.  Educational qualifications. – candidates should 
possess the following educational qualifications: 
(a) Should have passed the GcE o/L in Six (06) Subjects 
with at least four credit passes in four (4) subjects at 
one sitting including credit passes for one language 
subject among Sinhala/Tamil language as the first 
language and Mathematics. 
and
(b) Should have passed all the subjects at the GcE a/L 
Examination (Except common Paper and English 
Language Test) at one sitting. It is sufficient to pass 
in three (03) subjects under old syllabus at one 
sitting.
 6.4.  Candidates :
1. Should be either a citizen of Sri Lanka either by 
descent or registration. 
2. Should not have been convicted of a criminal 
offence at a court and further should be of sound 
moral character. 
3. Should not be a person who has been dismissed 
from public service, from the service of state 
corporation of statutory institutions, vacated the 
post or a person who has been sent on retirement 
due to inefficiency. 
4. Should not be a person delcared as bankrupt.
5. Should not have been ordained in any religion or 
religious sect. 
07. Monthly salary scale applicable for the post.– Salary 
Scale  : Rs. 13,990 -10x145 - 11x170 - 6x240 - 14x320 - Rs. 
23,230.
08. Service conditions : 
8.1. Recruitments are made to grade iii of Grama 
Niladharies' service. 
8.2. The post is permanent and pensionable. Officers are 
required to make contributions to Widows/widowers 
and orphans' fund. 
8.3. Officers are required to serve in the Divisional 
Secretary's division to which he/she is appointed for 
three years from the date of first appointment. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
316
8.4. Officers are entitled to a day- off per week and they 
are bound to perform duties within Grama Niladhari 
division, to which they are appointed, during 24 hours 
on all other days except the day -off. 
8.5. An officer appointed to this post is subjected to the 
provisions and regulations stipulated in approved 
procedure of recruitment, procedural rules of the 
public services commission, establishments code and 
financial regulations and further to regulations as well 
as provisions which have already been stipulated and 
which are to be stipulated in future by the government.
 
09. Method for sending applications : 
9.l. applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
should be sent in registered post to reach "commissioner 
General, organization and foreign Examinations 
branch, Sri Lanka department of Examinations, 
P.o.box 1503, colombo on or before 14.03.2016. the 
words "competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade iii of Grama Niladharies Service - 2016" should 
be written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope 
in which the application is enclosed. When preparing 
applications the name of the examination indicated 
at Heading should be written in English in Sinhala 
applications in addition to Sinhala and in English in 
tamil applications in addition to tamil. 
9.2. applications should be prepared using both side of a 
paper of size a4 in accordance with the specimen and 
cages up to 08 should appear on the first side of the 
page. Remaining cages should appear on the other page. 
the application may be prepared either by printable 
writing or it can be type written but it should strictly 
be perfected in the hand writing of the candidate. When 
preparing applications the name of the examination 
indicated at Heading should be written in English 
in Sinhala applications in addition to Sinhala and in 
English in tamil applications in addition to tamil. 
9.3. candidates' signature in the application form and the 
admission card for the examination should have been 
attested. an applicant applying the examination from an 
institution should have got his application attested by 
Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him 
while other applicant should have got their applications 
attested by a Principal of a Government School, Grama 
Niladhari, a Justice of the Peace, commissioner for 
oaths, attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, commissioned 
Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding a staff 
Grade post in Public Service or Provincial Public 
Service receiving an annual consolidated salary of 
Rs.240,360/- or more. 
9.4. Officers who are already in public service or provincial 
public service should send their applications through 
the respective Head of department. 
9.5. Examination fee is Rs. 500. this fee can be paid in 
the name of the candidate strictly with relevance to 
this examination to any post office/ sub post office 
to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination and the receipt 
obtained should be affixed to the application. ( number 
of the receipt, date and the post office should clearly 
be indicated) under no circumstances the examination 
fee will be refunded and requests for transferring this 
examination fee to any other examination will not be 
considered. it is advisable to keep a photo copy of the 
receipt with the candidate. 
9.6. applications which are incomplete and which are not 
prepared properly will be rejected without any notice. 
facts such as, preparation of application inconsistent 
to the para 9.2, filling of the application with illegible 
letters, failure to indicate the divisional Secretaries 
division and its number to which appointment is 
sought, submission of application without the signature 
of the candidate, neglecting to paste the receipt obtained 
for the payment of examination fee can be shown as 
examples. 
10. Appearing for the examination and release of result : 
10.1 candidate will be required to prove his/ her 
identity at the examination hall. for this purpose, 
National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons or valid passport will only 
be accepted. 
10.2 a candidate should appear the examination in the 
examination hall under index  Number assigned to 
him. Every applicant sitting the examination should 
handed over the attested admission card to the chief 
Supervisor on the day of examination. applicants 
not producing the admission will not be allowed to 
sit the examination. 
10.3 Release of Results :
  The list of names of applicants who qualified at 
the written examination as per 4.4 of the Gazette 
Notification will be made available to the Secretary, 
Ministry of Home affairs separately depending 
on the vacancies available in each divisional 
Secretary's division for conducting structural 
interview. following the receipt of marks of the 
Structural interview, the lists of results prepared at 
divisional Secretary's divisions based on priority 
of aggregates of marks secured by candidates at 
the written examination and the interview will be 
made available to the Secretary, Ministry of Home 
affairs. informing result personally to all applicants 
appeared the examination or publishing the same in 
the website www.results.exams.gov.lk will be made 
according to intimation by the Secretary, Ministry of 
Home affairs. 
11. all candidates should have a sound understanding on the 
rules and regulations of this examination which are published in 
the Gazette of the Government and they are bound to follow them. 
candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations stipulated by 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
317
the commissioner General of Examinations. in violation of them, 
candidate will be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
12. issue of an admission card to a candidate to sit the 
competitive examination does not mean to have accepted that 
he possesses all the qualifications for sitting examination. Any 
disadvantage caused to the candidate due to incompleteness 
or mistakes observed in the application should be born by the 
candidate. No requests made in this regard will be considered. 
13. the decision on the date on which recruitments are made 
based on the number of vacancies existing as at such certain date 
will be taken by me. further, attention of the candidate is drawn 
to the fact that the vacancies in certain divisional Secretariat 
mentioned in schedule 1 would have been filled due to annual 
transfers by such date determining the above manner. further it is 
hereby emphasize that the candidates who make their applications 
from such divisional Secretary's divisions will not be entitled 
to become eligible for appointment to the vacancies existing at 
another divisional Secretary's division. 
14. based on the assumption that only the applicants having 
qualifications referred to in the Gazette Notification have applied, 
admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of 
the department of Examination to the applicants who are within 
the age limit at the closing date of applications as stipulated in 
the advertisement and who have submitted applications with the 
receipt for having paid the prescribed examination fee before that 
date indicating the medium of language sitting the examination, 
name and number of/divisional Secretary's division, name 
and number of the relevant district, signature of applicant and 
attestation of signature and , if applicable, certification of the 
Head of the department. if it is found at the interview or at 
any later occasion that the applicant does not possess the basic 
qualifications, results of such candidates will not be treated as 
a qualification for granting a post. A press notification will be 
published by the departm ent of Examinations as soon as the 
admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission 
card is not received at least 05 days before the date of examination, 
enquires should be made from the organization and foreign 
Examination branch, department of Examination in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. When such an enquiry is made, the 
candidate should correctly indicate the name of examination he 
has applied for, full name of the applicant, Nic Number and the  
address. if the applicant is a resident outside colombo, it would 
be advisable to fax a letter of request with the above details also 
furnishing candidate's fax number to enable for obtaining a copy 
of admission card through fax. at making such an enquiry, it 
would be useful to keep ready the copy of the application, copy of 
the receipt of paying examination fee and receipt of registration 
to confirm any information wanted by the Dept. of Examination. 
15. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala/
tamil and English texts of this Gazette  Notification the Sinhala 
text prevails. 
16. the right of deciding any of the matters not covered by 
this notification is reserved with the Secretary, Ministry of Home 
affairs. 
 J. J. 
ratnaSiri, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Home affairs.
Ministry of Home affairs,
independent Squire,
colombo,
28th January, 2016. 
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN 
(For office use only)
comPetitive examination for recruitment to grade iii of 
grama niladhari Service 2016 
01. Name and the Number of the divisional Secretary's division, 
which the candidate applies for the appointment : 
 Name ......................... Number 
 (Name and the number of the divisional Secretary's division 
should correctly be indicated as mentioned in Schedule 1. 
this will not be allowed to change subsequently)
02. Name and the number of district to which the divisional 
Secretary's division in which, the applicant seeks appointment 
belongs : 
  Name :.......................   Number : 
 (Name and the number of the district should correctly be 
indicated as mentioned in Schedule 1.)
03. Medium of Examination : 
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil  - 3 
  English - 4
 Language Medium Number
 (Write the medium and number in the relevant cage. this will 
not be allowed to change subsequently) 
04.   4.1 Name in full :––––––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals) (ex. : HERatH   
   MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa    
   GuNa WaRdHaNa)
   4.2 Name with last name first and initials of other names  
   last (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––––.
    (eg. : GuNaWaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
   4.3 Name in full (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––––.
05.   5.1 Permanentaddress :––––––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals)

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
318
   5.2 Permanent address :––––––––––––––.
    (in Sinhala/tamil)
06. Sex :  Male 0
    female 1   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
07. you are a Sri Lankan citizen by : 
    decent 1
    Registration 2   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
08.   8.1 National identity card Number : 
   8.2 date of bir th : 
    y ear :     Month :    date : 
   8.3 age as at 14.03.2016 : 
    y ears :   Months :  days :
09. Name and the number of Grama Niladhari division of permanent residence : 
10. Educational Qualifications : 
 10.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L)/N. C. G. Examination or the examination from which the officer become qualified :
  Name of the examination :–––––––––––––. 
  y ear :–––––––––––––.    index Number :–––––––––––––. 
  Subject Grade Subject Grade 
1.  5.
2.  6.
3.  7.
4.  8.
   10.2 Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) or the examination from  which the officer become qualified : 
  y ear :–––––––––––––.   index Number :–––– –––––––––. 
  Subject Grade
1,
2.
3.
4.
11. other Qualifications :.............................................................................................................................................................................
 ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
12. Whether a case has been filed against you at a court or you have been punished by a Court : Yes/No
 if yes :  
   (i) court and the file No. :–––––––––––––. 
   (ii) charge :–––––––––––––. 
   (iii) Verdict/Punishment :–––––––––––––. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
319
13. Whether you are an officer who served at a government/
Provincial council/co-operation/authority or any other 
institution affiliated to government and were dismissed 
from the service on disciplinary grounds/sent on retirement 
on inefficiency/or vacated the post : Yes/No (If yes please 
specify) :–––––––––––––. 
14. Certification of the Applicant :
 (a) i solemnly declare that the information provided by me 
in the application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge.
 (b) i honestly declare that i have not submitted any other 
application for this examination as per the Gazette 
notification.
 (c) Paid Rs. .................... as the examination fee.
  Receipt No. ..........................
  Post office ......................... Date .............................
(Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached)
 (d) i, declare that i agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner-General of 
Examinations regarding this examination. 
 (e) i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to terminate the service or to 
dimissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after 
appointment. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––. 
15. attestation of the Signature : 
i, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................................... is known 
to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ........./.........../2016.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the person attesting. 
Name :–––––––––––––. 
designation :–––––––––––––. 
date :–––––––––––––. 
(Place the official stamp)
16. applications submitted through Head of the department : 
i, certify Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................................., who 
submit this application, has been serving in this office since 
............................... in the post of .......................and his/her work 
is satisfactory and the afore mentioned particulars are true and 
correct. furthermore, i hereby state that he/she, can/cannot be 
released from service if selected. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Head of department.
  (with official stamp)
date :–––––––––––––. 
ScHEduLE i
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
colombo 1103
Kolonnawa 1106
Kaduwela 1109
Homagama 1112
Hanwella 1115 colombo
Padukka 1118
Maharagama 1121 0   1
Sri Jayawardanapura 1124
 Kotte
thimbirigasyaya 1127
dehiwala 1130
Rathmalana 1131
Moratuwa 1133
Kesbewa 1136
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Negombo 1203
Katana 1206
divulapitiya 1209
Meerigama 1212
Minuwangoda 1215 Gampaha
Wattala 1218
Ja-Ela 1221 0       2
Gampaha 1224
attanagalla 1227
dompe 1230
Mahara 1233
Kelaniya 1236
biyagama 1239

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
320
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Panadura 1303
bandaragama 1306
Horana 1309
ingiriya 1310
bulathsinghela 1312 Kalutara
Madurawala 1315
Millaniya 1318 0     3
Kalutara 1321
beruwala 1324
dodangoda 1327
Mathugama 1330
agalawatta 1333
Palindanuwara 1336
Walallawita 1339
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
thumpane 2103
Poojapitiya 2106
akurana 2109
Pathadumbara 2112
Panwila 2115
ududumbara 2118
Minipe 2121 Kandy
Medadumbara 2124
Kundasale 2127 0      4
Gangawata Korale 2130
Harispattuwa 2133
Hataraliyadda 2134
yatinuwara 2136
udunuwara 2139
doluwa 2142
Pathahewaheta 2145
delthota 2148
udapalatha 2151
Gangaihala Korale 2154
Pasbage Korale 2157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Galewela 2203
dambulla 2206
Naula 2209 Matale
Pallepola 2212
yatawatta 2215 0       5
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Matale 2218
ambangaga Korale 2221 Matale
Laggala Pallegama 2224
Wilgamuwa 2227 0     5
Raththota 2230
ukuwela 2233
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kothmale 2303 Nuwara
Haguranketha 2306 Eliya
Walapane 2309 
Nuwara Eliya 2312 0     6
ambagamuwa 2315
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
benthota 3103
balapitiya 3106
Karandeniya 3109
Elpitiya 3112
Niyagama 3115
thawalama 3118
Neluwa 3121 Galle
Nagoda 3124
baddegama 3127 0      7
Welivitiya divithura 3130
ambalangoda 3133
Hikkaduwa 3136
Gravets 3139
bope Poddala 3142
akmeemana 3145
yakkalamulla 3148
imaduwa 3151
Gonapeenuwala 3154
Habaraduwa 3157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Pitabeddara 3203 Matara
Kotapola 3206
Pasgoda 3209 0    8

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
321
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mulatiyana 3212
athuruliya 3215
akuressa 3218
Welipitiya 3221 Matara
Malimbada 3224
Kamburupitiya 3227 0    8
Hakmana 3230
Kirinda Puhulwella 3233
thihagoda 3236
Weligama 3239
Matara 3242
devinuwara 3245
dikwella 3248
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Sooriyawewa 3303
Lunugamwehera 3306
thissamaharama 3309
Hambanthota 3312 Hambantota
ambalanthota 3315
angunakolapelessa 3318 0    9
Weeraketiya 3321
Katuwana 3324
okewela 3327
beliatta 3330
tangalle 3333
Walasmulla 3336
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kayts (island North) 4103
chankanei (Walikamum 
 West) 4106
Sandilipay (Walikamum 
 South West) 4109
thelippalei  Jaffna
 (Walikamum North) 4112
uduvil (Walikamum  1    0
 South) 4115
Kopai (Walikamum East) 4118
Karaweddi (Wadamarachchi  
 South West) 4121
Maruthankerny 
 (Wadamarachchi East) 4124
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Point Pedro 4127
 (Wadamarachchi North)
chawakachcheri  Jaffna
 (thenmarachchi) 4130
Nallur 4133 1     0
Jaffna 4136
Velanai (island South) 4139
delft 4142
Kareinagar 4145
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mannar 4203
Manthai West 4206 Mannar
Madu 4209
Nanaddan 4212 1     1
Musali 4215
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Vavuniya North 4303 Vavuniya
Vavuniya South 4306
Vavuniya 4309 1     2
Vengalacheddikulam 4312
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
thunukkai 4403
Manthai East 4406 Mullativu
Pudukuduirippu 4409
oddusudan 4412 1     3
Maritimepattu 4415
Welioya 4418
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Pachchilaipalli 4503 Kilinochchi
Kandawalai 4506
Karachchi 4509 1    4
Punakari 4512 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
322
Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Koralepattu North 5103
Koralepattu West 
 (oddamawadi) 5106
Koralepattu 
 (Valaichchenai) 5109
Eravurpattu 5112
Eravurpattu town 5115
Manmunei North 5118 batticaloa
Manmunei West 5121
Kaththankudi 5124 1    5
Manmuneipattu 5127
Manmunei South West 5130
Porativupattu 5133
Manmunei South 5136
Koralepattu South 5139
Koralepattu central 5142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
dehiaththakandiya 5203
Padiyathalawa 5206
Maha oya 5209
uhana 5212
ampara 5215
Nawindaweli 5216
Samanthurei 5218 ampara
Kalmuna-tamil 5224
Saindamarudu 5225 1    6
Karativu 5227
Nindavur 5230
addalachchena 5233
Eragama 5234
akkaraipattu 5236
alayadivembu 5239
damana 5242
thirukkovil 5245
Pothuvil 5248
Lahugala 5251
Kalmuna - Muslim 5254
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Padavi Sri pura 5303 t rincomalee
Kuchchaveli 5306
Gomarankadawala 5309 1   7
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Morawewa 5312
town and Gravets 5315
thambalagamuwa 5318 t rincomalee
Kanthale 5321
Kinniya 5324 1   7
Muthur 5327
Seruvila 5330
Verugal/ 5333
 Echchalampattuwa
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Giribawa 6103
Galgamuwa 6106
Ehetuwewa 6109
ambanpola 6112
Kotawehera 6115
Rasnayakapura 6118
Nikaweratiya 6121
Mahawa 6124
Polpithigama 6127
ibbagamuwa 6130 Kurunegala
Ganewatta 6133
Wariyapola 6136 1      8
Kobeigane 6139
bingiriya 6142
bamunakotuwa 6149
Maspotha 6151
Kurunegala 6154
Mallavapitiya 6157
Mawathagama 6160
Rideegama 6163
Weerambugedara 6166
Kuliyapitiya East 6169
Kuliyapitiya West 6172
udubaddawa 6175
Pannala 6178
Narammala 6181
alawwa 6184
Polgahawela 6187
Paduwasnuwara East 6190
Paduwasnuwara West 6193
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kalpitiya 6203 Puttlam
Wanathavilluwa 6206
Karuwalagaswewa 6209 1    9
Nawagaththegama 6212

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
323
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Puttlam 6215
Mundalama 6218 Puttlam
Mahakumbukkadawala 6221
anamaduwa 6224 1    9
Pallama 6227
arachchikattuwa 6230
chilaw 6233
Madampe 6236
Mahawewa 6239
Naththandiya 6242
Wennappuwa 6245
dankotuwa 6248
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Padaviya 7103
Kebithigollewa 7106
Medawachchiya 7109
Mahawilachchiya 7112
Nuwaragampalatha  7115
 central
Rambewa 7118
Kahatagasdigiliya 7121 anuradhapura
Horoupothana 7124
Galenbindunuwewa 7127 2    0
Mihinthale 7130
Nuwaragampalatha  7133
 East
Nachchaduwa 7136
Nochchiyagama 7139
Rajanganaya 7142
thambuttegama 7145
thalawa 7148
thirappane 7151
Kekirawa 7154
Palugaswewa 7157
ipalogama 7160
Galnewa 7163
Palagala 7166
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Higurakgoda 7203 Polonnaruwa
Medirigiriya 7206
Lankapura 7209 2    1
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Welikanda 7210 Polonnaruwa
dimbulagala 7212
thamankaduwa 7215 2   1
Elahera 7218
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mahiyanganaya 8103
Rideemaliyadda 8106
Meegahakiula 8109
Kandaketiya 8112
Soranathota 8115
Passara 8118 badulla
Lunugala 8119
badulla 8121 2    2
Hali Ela 8124
uwa Paranagama 8127
Welimada 8130
bandarawela 8133
Ella 8136
Haputhale 8139
Haldummulla 8142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
bibila 8203
Madulla 8206
Medagama 8209
Siyambalanduwa 8212
Monaragala 8215 Monaragala
badalkumbura 8218
buttala 8221 2    3
Wellawaya 8224
Kataragama 8227
thanamalwila 8230
Sewanagala 8233
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Eheliyagoda 9103 Rathnapura
Kuruwita 9106
Kiriella 9109 2     4

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.02.2016
324
Rathnapura 9112
imbulpe 9115
balangoda 9118 Rathnapura
opanayake 9121
Pelmadulla 9124 2    4
Elapatha 9127
ayagama 9130
Kalawana 9133
Niwithigala 9136
Kahawatta 9139
Godakawela 9142
Weligepola 9145
Embilipitiya 9148
Kolonna 9151
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Rambukkana 9203
Mawanella 9206
aranayake 9209
Kegalle 9212 Kegalle
Galigamuwa 9215
Warakapola 9218 2    5
Ruwanwella 9221
bulathkohupitiya 9224
yatiyanthota 9227
dehiovita 9230
deraniyagala 9233
02–362
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District