

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2299$60 - 2022 iema;eïn¾ ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'09'30
No. 2299/60 -  friday,  september   30,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 37669 - 08 (09/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.b 277/40 (iv)
ThE  ANTIquITIES  ORDINANCE  (ChAPTER 188)
Order under Section 16
by virtue of the powers vested in me by section 16 of the antiquities Ordinance (Chapter 188) i, Vidura Wikramanayaka, 
Minister of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs, do, by this Order, declare that the monuments specified in the 
schedule hereto shall be deemed to be ancient monuments for the purposes of the aforesaid Ordinance.             
 Vidura Wikramanayaka,
 minister of buddhasasana, religious and  
 Cultural affairs.
Colombo,
21st september, 2022.
sCheduLe
List of Ancient Monuments
Southern Province 
 1. t wo storied ambalama belonging to rathmale village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, bambarenda south in 
the divisional secretary's division, dikwella in matara district in southern province.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.09.2022
2a
 2. Official Quarter of the Governor at Rate No. 33, Dicksen Mawatha in Dangedara Village situated in the Grama 
Niladhari division No. 97a, Weliwaththa in the divisional secretary's division four Gravets in Galle district in 
southern province.
Sabaragamuwa Province 
 3. rock plain called malgala with archaelogical evidences in hingula village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, 
Ganethenna in the divisional secretary's division, mawanella in Kegalle district in sabaragamuwa province.
 4. ancient Kachcheri building belonging to meepitiya village situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 51G, 
meepitiya in the divisional secretary's division, Kegalle district in sabaragamuwa province.
 5. buddenipolhena Walawwa within the premises of balika Vidyalaya, Kegalle belonging to pitihuma division No. 08 
village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, pitihuma in the divisional secretary's division, Kegalle in Kegalle 
district in sabaragamuwa province.
 6. Weheragala mountain range with archaeological evidences including ancient dagobas, sketches in pre-historic era, 
and cave with brahmi inscriptions in medabedda village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, Neluyaya in the 
divisional secretary's division, balangoda in rathnapura district in sabaragamuwa province.
Central Province 
 7. dodamwala ambalama belonging to dodamwala village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, bahirawakanda in 
the divisional secretary's division, Gangawatakorale in Kandy district in Central province.
 8.  Nagolla ambalama and inscription situated in the Grama Niladhari division, Nagolla in the divisional secretary's 
division, medadumbara in Kandy district in Central province.
 9. putuhapuwa ancient ambalama situated in the Grama Niladhari division, putuhapuwa in the divisional secretary's 
division, medadumbara in Kandy district in Central province.
 10. Karalliyadda ambalama situated in the Grama Niladhari division, Karalliyadda in the divisional secretary's division, 
medadumbara in Kandy district in Central province.
11.  the Wilamuna (anicut) built crossing arawele canal belonging to Wilamuna village situated in the Grama Niladhari 
division, Wilamuna in the divisional secretary's division, medadumbara in Kandy district in Central province.
12.  Name board of the road at udispaththuwa situated in the Grama Niladhari division, udispaththuw in the divisional 
secretary's division, medadumabara in Kandy district in Central province.
13.  siridigana ambalama situated in the Grama Niladhari division, siridigana in the divisional secretary's division, 
medadumbara in Kandy district in Central province.
14.  Weragodathenna stone fence belonging to heeloya village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, heeloya in the 
divisional secretary's division, medadumabara in Kandy district in Central province.
15.  dahayyagala drip ledge cave belonging to anguruwellawatta village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, 
hakmana in the divisional secretary's division, medadumbara in Kandy district in Central province.
16.  Kathpela ambalama in hathiyalwela village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, metideniya in the divisional 
secretry's division, medadumabara in Kandy district in Central province.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.09.2022
3a
17.  Galenuwara fortress and ruins of the palace in medemahanuwara hill belonging to rambukpotha Galenuwara village 
situated in the Grama Niladhari division, rambukpotha in the divisional secretry's division, medadumbara in Kandy 
district in Central province.
18.  archaelogical site at bomure situated in the Grama Niladhari division, bomure in the divisional secretary's division, 
medadumbara in Kandy district in Central province.
19.  dunuwila ambalama in Walagedaragama village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, sandasiridunuwila in the 
divisional secretary's division, medadumabara in Kandy district in Central province.
North Central Province 
 20. magalithic Cemetery belonging to bogoda village situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 267, dematamalgama 
in the divisional secretary's division. mahawilachchiya in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
21.  ancient stone bridge (Gal palama - east) situated in bandarabulankulama village belonging to Grama Niladhari 
division No. 319, bandarabulankulama and Grama Niladhari division No. 298, pethispura in the divisional secretary's 
division, Nuwaragampalatha Central in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
22.  Govigala mountain range drip ledged cave complex with inscriptions belonging to paragahaulpatha situated in the 
Grama Niladhari division No. 121, Nikawewa in the divisional secretary's division, horowpathana in anuradhapura 
district in North Central province.
23.  site of ruins called thammennawila Wehera including rock plain consists of ancient dagoba, evidence of building, 
plight of steps belonging to puleliya village in the Grama Niladhari division No. 62, puleliya, in the divisional 
secretary's division, medawachchiya in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
24.  ancient dagoba, 02 rock inscriptions and ancient pond in the premises of bathiyagiri aranya senasana in ihala 
usgollewa situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 23, ihala usgollewa, in the divisional secretary's division, 
Kebithigollewa in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
25.  Cave inscription and drip ledge cave found on the northern slope of the mountain range called Nelliyakanda belonging to 
Kunchikulama village situated in the Grama Niladhari division, No. 514, Kunchikulama, in the divisional secretary's 
division, ipalogama in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
26.  rock plain called Naigala with signs of Naga (Cobra) in yaya - 02 village situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 
433 in the divisional secretary's division, rajanaganaya in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
27.  rock called Galkanda with rock inscription, ruined dagoba, plight of steps within the premises sadaham Kutiya 
asapu belonging to Kawarakkulama village situated in the Grama Niladhari division No.184, Wannamkulama in the 
divisional secretary's division, Galenbindunuwewa in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
28.  stone bund called Komarikagala yaya with drip ledge caves, ancient dagoba and signs of other ancient constructions 
in diyawara Gammanaya situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 493, dhathusenapura in divisional secretary's 
division, ipalogama in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
29.  rocks with ancient dagoba, uposathagara, pond and signs of ancient construction within the premises of sri Gamini 
rajamaha Vihara, thammennawa situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 34, thammennawa in the divisional 
secretary's division, Kebathigollewa in anuradhapura district in North Central province.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.09.2022
4a
30.  t empita vihara building within the premises of sri Naga purana Vihara Kudagam situated in the Grama Niladhari 
division Kudagama in the divisional secretary's division rambewa in anuradhapura district in North Central 
province.
31.  rock plain with dagoba, ruins of buildings, ponds and boundary walls within the premises of Viharamahadevi rajamaha 
Vihara, allisthanaya situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 548, allisthanaya in divisional secretary's division, 
thirappane in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
32.  ancient dagoba and ruins of buildings found within the catchment area of Weliwewa tank situated in the Grama 
Niladhari division No. 331, Lindawewa in the divisional secretary's division, Nochchiyagama in anuradhapura 
district in North Central province.
33.  rock plian with ancient dagoba within the premises of sarakkugala situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 
351 sarakkugala in the divisional secretary's division, Nochchiyagama in anuradhapura district in North Central 
province.
34.  mountain range called Walasgunawa Weheragala with plight of steps and drip ledged caves with brahmi scripts situated 
in the Grama Niladhari division No. 137, thawalamhalmillewa in the divisional secretary's division, horowpathana 
in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
35.  rock plain with drip ledged caves with brahmi scripts and ruins of ancient buildings belonging to andarawewa 
village situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 287, Kudamaningamuwa in the divisional secretary's division, 
Nuwaragampalatha Central in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
36.  mountain range called usgalkanda with cave complex, rock inscriptions and ruins of buildings belonging to yakawewa 
village situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 27, halmillawetiya in the divisional secretary's division, 
Kebithigollewa in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
37.  premises with megalithic cemeteries at the place called mahahalmillewa Gurugalhinna situated in the Grama Niladhari 
division No. 208, mahahalmillewa in the divisional secretary's division, Kahatagasdigiliya in anuradhapura district 
in North Central province.
38.  site of buildings with stone pillars and arachaelogical evidences found on the rock plain in Galkaruyaya village in the 
Grama Niladhari division No. 676, moroaththegama in the divisional secretary's division, palagala in anuradhapura 
district in North Central province.
39.  ruins of ancient buildings and other archaeological evidences at the place called maligathenna belonging to yaya 
18 village, situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 456, rajanganaya in the divisional secretary's division, 
rajanganaya in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
40.  drip ledged Caves with brahmi script in the land called Kuttikulama Gal Linda mukalana situated in the Grama 
Niladhari division No. 530, Kuttikulama in the divisional secretary's division, thirappane in anurdhapura district in 
North Central province.
41.  Cave complex and sites of the ruins of ancient buildings within Weebendahinna mountain range belonging to 
Keeriyagaswewa village (megodawewa) situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 607, Keeriyagaswewa in the 
divisional secretary's division, Kekirawa in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
42.  inscriptions and drip ledged cave within the premises of ihalakagama sri buduge Kanda rajamaha Vihara situated in 
the Grama Niladhari division No. 519, ihalakagama in the divisional secretary's division, ipalogama in anuradhapura 
district in North Central province.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 30.09.2022
5a
43.  drip ledged cave with inscriptions situated in ihalakagama Kotabudhdhagala mountain range situated in the Grama 
Niladhari division No. 519, ihalakagama in divisional secretary's division, ipalogama in anuradhapura district in 
North Central province.
44.  site of the ruins of ancient buildings with stone pillars and ancient wall situated in the catchment area of ikirigollewa 
tank belonging to Kudagama village situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 96, Kudagama in the divisional 
secretary's division. rambewa in anuradhapura district in North Central province.
45.  ancient shrine, dagoba, ruins of buildings and other archaeological evidences within the premises somawathi 
forest reservation situated in the Grama Niladhari division thrikonamaduwa in the divisional secretary's division, 
Welikanda in polonnaruwa district in North Central province.
46.  site of the ruins of ancient buildings and ancient dagoba belonging to Kottapitiya village situated in the Grama 
Niladhari division No. 14, somiyel in the divisional secretary's division, bakamuna in polonnaruwa district in North 
Central province.
47.  site of the ruins of ancient buildings with stone pillars within the premises of sri shailabimbarama aththanakadawala 
situated in the Grama Niladhari division No. 03, Karandagolla in the divisional secretary's division, bakamuna in 
polonnaruwa district in North Central province.
Western Province 
48.  danawkanda cave in pre-historic era situated in Grama Niladhari division No. 03, danawkanda in the divisional 
secretary's division. dompe-Weke in Gampaha district in Western province.
49.  site of ancient ruins of buildings, udugodamankada in udugoda - rukgahawila village situated in Grama Niladhari 
division No. 351, udugodamankada in the divisional secretary's division, aththanagalla in Gampaha district in 
Western province.
50.  udammita ambalama situated in Grama Niladhari division udammita in the divisional secretary's division, 
aththanagalla in Gampaha district in Western province.
51.  y atawaka ambalama situated in Grama Niladhari division, yatawaka in the divisional secretary's division, 
aththanagalla in Gampaha district in Western province.
52.  building of urban Council, Gampaha belonging to medagama village situated in Grama Niladhari division, medagama 
in the divisional secretary's division, Gampaha in Gampaha district in Western province.
53.  drip ledged cave in the land called yatawaka Lihinigollawaththa situated in Grama Niladhari division No. 366a, 
yatawaka in the divisional secretary's division, aththanagalla in Gampaha district in Western province.
North Western Province 
54.  bund of pandawewa situated belonging to ambagahawella, thoragalla, Kokagala, Welmiriskele, pandapitiya and 
detiyamulla villages situated in Grama Niladhari division No. 1346, panduwasnuwara and No. 1352, Othegama in the 
divisional secretary's division, panduwasnuwara-West in Kurunegala district in North Western province.
eOG 09-0359
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.