

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2321$57 - 2023 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2023'03'02
No. 2321/57  -  THURSDAY,  MARCH 02,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT, No. 15 of 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
the Institute has adopted the Amendments to LKAS 16 Property, Plant and EquipmentH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGV
beginning on or after 01st January 2022 published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, 
$FW1RRI7KLV6WDQGDUGVKDOOEHH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHUst January 2022.    
By Order of the Council, 
 R.S. $ඇඈආൺ3උංඒൺൽൺඋඌඁൺඇං,
  Secretary. 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
02
nd March, 2023.
N.B.— Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette Extraordinary are published separately.
$3*


<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 02.03.2023  
 
Amendments to LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment 
 
Paragraphs 17 and 74 are amended; paragraphs 20A, 74A, 80D and 81N are added. The 
requirements formerly in paragraph 74(d) have not been amended but have been moved to paragraph 
74A(a). Deleted text is struck through and new text is underlined. 
 
Measurement at recognition 
 ... 
 Elements of cost 
 ... 
17 Examples of directly attributable costs are: 
 ... 
(e) costs of testing whether the asset is functioning properly (ie assessing whether the technical 
and physical performance of the asset is such that it is capable of being used in the production 
or supply of goods or services, for rental to others, or for ad ministrative purposes), after 
deducting the net proceeds from selling any items produced whil e bringing the asset to that 
location and condition (such as samples produced when testing equipment); and 
 ... 
 ... 
20A Items may be produced while bringing an item of property, p lant and equipment to the location and 
condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management (such as 
samples produced when testing whether the asset is functioning properly). An entity recognises the 
proceeds from selling any such items, and the cost of those items, in profit or loss in accordance with 
applicable Standards. The entity measures the cost of those ite ms applying the measurement 
requirements of LKAS 2. 
 ... 
Disclosure 
 ... 
74 The financial statements shall also disclose: 
 ... 
(b) the amount of expenditures recognised in the carrying amount of  an item of property, 
plant and equipment in the course of its construction; and 
(c) the amount of contractual commitments for the acquisition of pr operty, plant and 
equipment; and 
(d) if it is not disclosed separately in the statement of comprehen sive income, the amount of 
compensation from third parties for items of property, plant an d equipment that were 
impaired, lost or given up that is included in profit or loss. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'03'02    3A
PART I :SEC.(1) –GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -02.03.2023
74A If not presented separately in the statement of comprehensiv e income, the financial statements 
shall also disclose:
(a) the amount of compensation from third parties for items of p roperty, plant and
equipment that were impaired, lost or given up that is included in profit or loss; and
(b) the amounts of proceeds and cost included in profit or loss in accordance with paragraph
20A that relate to items produced that are not an output of the entity’s ordinary activities,
and which line item(s) in the statement of comprehensive income include(s) such proceeds
and cost.
Transitional provisions
...
80D Property, Plant and Equipment —Proceeds before Intended Use , issued in May 2020, amended 
paragraphs 17 and 74 and added paragraphs 20A and 74A. An entit y shall apply those amendments 
retrospectively, but only to items of property, plant and equip ment that are brought to the location 
and condition necessary for them to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management 
on or after the beginning of the earliest period presented in the financial statements in which the entity 
first applies the amendments. The entity shall recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying the 
amendments as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or other component of 
equity, as appropriate) at the beginning of that earliest period presented.
Effective date
...
81N Property, Plant and Equipment —Proceeds before Intended Use , issued in May 2020, amended 
paragraphs 17 and 74, and added paragraphs 20A, 74A and 80D. An  entity shall apply those 
amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022. Earlier application is
permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
(2*