

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1903$61 – 2015 fmnrjdß 27 jeks isl=rdod – 2015'02'27
No. 1903/61 – FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2015
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: CI/1795.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Finlays Colombo PLC, No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 of the one part and The United
Tea Rubber and Local Produce Workers’ Union, 513-2/1 Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 01st day of August 2014 is hereby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
HERA TH YAPA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
10th February, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 30 of 2014
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
THIS Collective Agreement made on this 1st day of August Two Thousand Fourteen, to take effect from the First day of January Tw o
Thousand Fourteen, between Finlays Colombo PLC, a Company having its registered office at No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2,
(hereinafter referred to as "the Employer") of the one part and the United Tea, Rubber and Local Produce Workers' Union a Trade Union duly
registered under the provisions of the Trade Unions' Ordinance and having its registered office at No. 513 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo
5, (hereinafter referred to as "the Union") of the other part.
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the "Finlays Colombo PLC, Manual Workers' Collective Agreement of 2014".
1A – G21104 – 16 (2015/02)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
Part I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND
CONNECTED THEREWITH.
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This Ageement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and all employees who are members
of the Union and are employed on monthly contract of employment.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective from the First day of January Two Thousand Fourteen, and
shall thereafter continue to be in force unless it is determined by either party giving one month's notice in writing to the other, subject to the
proviso that one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party to commence before the First day of December Two Th ousand
Sixteen (2016) and such notice shall not expire before the Thirty first day of December Two Thousand Sixteen.
3. This Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of the "Finlays Colombo PLC Manual Workers' Collective Agreement 2011".
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement, the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer and an Employee covered an bound by this
Agreement, Whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which shall come into being at
any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
5. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months, Provided,
however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee , the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the Employee in
writing, the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation, the Employer shall
have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee's services are not terminated for unsatisfcatory service
during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer, the Employee shall be deemed
to be confirmed in its Employer's service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation, as the case may be, ended.
6. Attendance.–
1. Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on every day (other
than a holiday) at the  usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
2. If at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in his own occupation, he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
employer where work is available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
7. Hours of Work.– The normal working hours shall be those hours, which are customarily worked at a store, factory, mill or job in
the Establishment of the Employer.
8. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer and Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
9. Overtime.–
1. If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer, shall
constitute neglect of duty, for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
2. Overtime work (i. e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (11/2) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of  16(a) hereof.
10. Weekly Holidays.–
1.  In respect of each week an Employee shall be allowed a holiday on the  Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday.  Provided
however, that if any Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any period of
overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wage in
respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (b) hereof.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
3A
2. In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include -
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause (II) hereof; and
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
3. The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) a day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and his
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1),  then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee
within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month an Employee may with the consent of the Employee.
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed
in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday.
or
(b) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s
wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) T hat in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration.
(a) One and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16
(a) hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16 (a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer
for periods exceeding twelve (12) days in respect of the duration of each such period.
11. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for
the Tea Export Trade, Engineering Trade and Motor Transport Trade, as the case may be.
12. Public Holidays.–
     1.       Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the Decisions of the Wages Board for the Tea Export
Trade,  Engineering Trade and Motor Transport Trade. Provided, however, that an Employee may be employed on a
public holiday in accordance with the Decisions of the relevant Wages Boards.
2. If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day
either in the Six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall
be granted to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause 10 hereof.
3. If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the
number of hours constituting the normal working day (inclusive of one hour for meal) on the day immediately preceding
such Public holiday shall be six and one half (6 1/ 2) hours.
13. Casual Leave.–   In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment,  that
Employee shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause, including ill  health if that Employee’s entitlement
to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of period
not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
Provided however, that not more than two (2) days’ casual leave shall be taken  at any time, save  and except upon the ground of ill health.
Provided  further that any worker shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period  of
annual holidays. Provided further that  in respect of any employee’s first year of Employment including any period of probation, he shall
be entitled to Casual Leave  for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the application. Where  an
Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to the Employee as soon as possible after
the application is made and in such case, the Employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the Employer
may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him Casual Leave.
14. Sick Leave.– In any year an Employee shall be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days provided that–
(a) His illness is supported by a Medical Certificate from a Registered medical Practitioner (unless waived by his Employer);
and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause 5 hereof. Provided however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days  if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days  if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
15. Monthly Consolidated Wages.–
1. Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 thereof, the salaries of employees covered and bound by this Agreement will be
revised as follows ; -
(a) The Employer shall increase the salaries of employees covered by this agreement, by 12%, wiht effect from 1st
January 2014 on the salaries as at December 2013.
(b) Each Employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the salary scale set out in the First Schedule
hereto in the grade applicable to him. If there is no corresponding point, he shall be placed on the next highest point
on the same scale.
(c) Thereafter salaries will be increased by a further 4% with effect from 1st January, 2015 on the salaries as at
December 2014.
(d) The salaries will be increased again by a further 3% with  effect from 1st January,  2016 on the salaries as at December
2015.
(e) In addition, with  effect from 1st January, 2014 the employees who are so eligible will receive increments on the
following basis.
Current annual increment rates are Rs.
50/- (Manual worker - tea export/ engineering unskilled)
75/- (Engineering Skilled)
60/- (Engineering Semi Skilled)
80/- (Drivers 0 - 5 years of service)
100/- (Drivers 5 - 10 years of service)
120/- (Drivers over 10 Years of service)
2. The scales of consolidated wages set  out in  Schedule 1 hereto include all statutory allowances as at the date of this
agreement.
3. This Agreement  shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
4. In lieu of the consolidation of salaries, based on the Colombo Consumer Price Index (CCPI), hitherto prevailed, with effect
from, First day of January 2014 a sum of Rs. 550/= will be added and the scales of consolidated wages set out in the First
Schedule hereto shall be revised by addition to and by consolidation of the salary at such stage of each grade of each
employee.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
5A
In a similar manner a further sum of Rs. 550/= will be added with effect from First day of January 2015 and again a further
sum of Rs. 800/= will be added with effect from First day of January 2016 and the scales of consolidated wages in the First
Schedule hereto shall be revised by addition to and by consolidation of the salary at such stage of each grade of each
employee.
The Employer also agrees to make a payment to each employee covered by this Agreement, by way of Notional arrears,
(for the period January 2014 to July 2014) a sum equivalent to 12% (on the salary as at December 2013) x 7 and
Rs. 550 x 7 including overtime.
However, parties agree that such payments made by way of notional arrears for the period January 2014 to July 2014, shall
not attract concequential benefits such as, EPF/ ETF, etc.
5. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement, the Government of Sri Lanka –
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement, legally obliging
the Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increase in wages prescribed by such written law
and in terms of such written law;
(b) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of
whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
16. Wages for Period less than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of an employee for periods less than one
month shall be computed in the following manner :
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred (200)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by twenty six (26)
(c) for one-half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
17. Production Bonus in lieu of NRCLG .–  The Employer, the Union and the employees agree that a payment guaranteeing a
minimum amount of Rs. 27,000/- per annum (Rs. 2,250/- per month) will be paid to each employee covered and bound by this agreement,
provided however, that the quantum of this payment (subject to the minimum payment of Rs. 27,000/- per annum) will be calculate d in
accordance with the under -noted formula and subject to the provisions of the succeeding sub clause of this paragraph.
The Formula :
BULK RANGE -MT RUPEES TB RANGE-MT RUPEES PACKET RANGE-MT RUPEES
Less than 10 20 Less than 40 600.00 Less than 100 500
11 - 20 30 41 - 45 637.5 100 - 150 625
21 - 30 50 46 - 50 712.5 151 - 200 875
31 - 40 70 51 - 55 787.5 201 - 250 1125
41 - 50 90 56 - 60 862.5 251 - 300 1375
51 - 60 110 61 - 65 937.5 301 - 350 1625
61 - 70 130 66 - 70 1012.5 351 - 400 1875
71 - 80 150 71 - 75 1087.5 401 - 450 2125
81 - 90 170 76 - 80 1162.5 451 - 500 2375
91 - 100 190 81 - 85 1237.5 501 - 550 2625
 (i) The calculation on the above formula will be on a monthly basis and will be subject to a maximum payment of Rs. 3,500/-
per month.
(ii) The above payment shall be payable by the Employer to an Employee who is eligible to receive the same by virtue of his
service under the Employer during a part of the year by reason of the fact that he is not in the Employer’s service when the
payment becomes due in January of any year or he joined the Employer’s service during the course of the qualifying year.
(Qualifying period will be from January to December).

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
(iii) The above payment shall not be payable to an Employee in respect of any period for which he received no wages for
whatever reason.
(iv) The formula referred to above is based on the number of machines available and the capacity of the factory at present.
Acquisition of new machinery in the future by the employer, parties agree to amend the formula referred to above.
(v) No Provident Fund, Trust fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on the above payment.
18. Provident Fund.–
1. An Employer and Employee shall contribute to the Provident fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident Fund
Act, No. 15 of 1958.
2. Subject to the provisions of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980 where an Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee’s
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Skills Allowance. –
An allowance of Rs. 400/- per month will be paid to the employees who are identified for placement as Electricians and
Mechanics. Similarly, Machine operators, Forklift Operators and Quality chekers will be paid and allowance of Rs. 350/-.
Thereafter when the Employees acquire vocational qualifications prescribed by the company, subject to them been placed
in the relevant grade and re-designated, they will become entitled to a further increase of Rs. 400/-, and Rs. 350/-
respectively. The total amounts of Rs.800/- (Electricians and Mechanics) and Rs. 700/- (Machine Operators, Forklift,
Operators and Quality Checkers)respectively will be consolidated into the salary of each employee and the allowance will
be discontinued forthwith.
These employees who have already been entitled for the aforementioned payments previously will be paid the difference
as indicated below and the following amount will be consolidated to the salary with effect from 01 st January, 2014.
–  Electricians and Mechanics: Rs. 300/-
–  Machine Operators, Forklift Operators and Quality Checker: Rs. 200/-
The above training will be conducted by the company or by an Institute recomended by the Company. The Company
agrees to bear the course fee, if any.
20. Terminal Benefits.–
1. The Employer will subject as hereinafter provided pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the scheme of
terminal benefits set out in this clause.
2. The scheme shall apply to every employee in the service of an employer on the First day of January Two Thousand
Fourteen or who joins the service of the employer on any day after the First day of January Two Thousand Fourteen, as
long as this Agreement continues in force.
3. As and by way of terminal benefits the employer shall pay an employee a sum equivalent to one month’s wages for each
year of service less the employer’s contribution to the Provident and Trust Funds but excluding interest thereon.
4. The wage on which the said terminal benefits under sub - clause 3 hereof shall be payable will be the last monthly wage
receivable by an employee on which Provident Fund is payable and shall not include any production bonus payment
made in lieu of NRCLG .
5. For the purpose of calculating terminal benefits under this clause an year of service shall be a period of not less than six
months.
6. The terninal benefits provided for in this clause shall be payable to an employee on the cessation of his services arising
from death or any other cause whatsoever, Provided, however, that if at the date of cessation of an employee’s service
there is due to this employer from the employee any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation or any other account and
the same cannot be recovered from the amount to the employee’s credit in the Provident Fund,  the same shall be recovered
from the terminal benefits provided for herein.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
7A
7. The provisions of this clause shall not apply to employers who operate a more favourable scheme of terminal benefits.
8. On the death of an employee whilst in service who  is eligible to receive terminal benefits under this clause, the employer
shall pay such terminal benefits in the manner and to the persons hereinafter set forth-
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of the deceased Employee’s Provident Fund at the date of his
death, to the nominee or nominees of such Employee in conformity with the form of nomination where such nominee
is surviving and of full age.
(b) Where there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or in one or more of the nominees having pre-
deceased, the Employee or in the event of a nominee being minor at the time that the payment of the terminal benefits
become due, the Employer shall make payment only after the person or persons entitled to the payment have
established their claim in law and furnished proof thereof.
9. In the event of any written law providing for the payment of gratuity or terminal benefits, the more favourable scheme shall
apply but not both.
10. No Employee shall be entitled to any gratuity or terminal benefits in addition to the terminal benefits provided for in this
Clause or by any written law as the case may be.
21. Bonus.–
1. Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payments in the
past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to
each of his Employees who have not been on unauthorized absence, a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money
paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement. In exceptional circumstances to
be determined by the management on a case by case basis, an employee who had been on unauthorized absence may be
considered for payment of bonus. If in any year the Employer, at his discretion, reduces the bonus to an amount less than
the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement,
the Union may canvass such reduction of bonus with the Employer. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in this
matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the Federation. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with
the Federation, the same shall be referred to a Committee of three persons (hereinafter referred to as “a Bonus Committee”)
which shall be constituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-clause (2) for settlement in the manner hereinafter
set forth.
2. At the written request of the parties to the dispute, as to the reduction of the bonus, the Commissioner-General of Labour
will constitute a Bonus Committee, which shall consist of three Senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least 10 years’ post qualification experience. The selection of the
three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner-
General of Labour to the Employer, the Union and the Federation.
Thereupon the Commissioner-General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee so
constituted, a Statement of Principles and Procedure by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in
settling the dispute as to the reduction of bonus.
3. Upon receipt of the submissions and the Statement of the Principles and Procedure from the Commissioner-General of
Labour, the Bonus Committee shall, in accordance with the said Principles and Procedure, decide whether the reduction of
the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate the decision in writing to the Federation and the Union and the
Commissioner-General of Labour.
If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decisions shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute
and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise
during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is divided in its decision, then the
decision of the Commissioner-General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute and
the Commissioner’s decision shall be communicated in writing by the Commissioner-General of Labour to the Federation,
and the Union/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during
the continuance in force of this Agreement.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
4. The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus in the year immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement.
5. The fees payable to the members of each Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner-General of Labour.
6. The payament of bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to Employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of this Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by the Union
or any of its members nor shall the Employer's failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
7. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to the existing bonus scheme.
At the request of the Commissioner-General of Labour, the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three Chartered Accountants without less than 10 years of post-qualification experience drawn from a
Professional Accountancy Firm to serve on the Bonus Committee.
22. Annual Increments.– The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wage in the First Schedule hereto
shall be automatic unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary action
on account of serious misconduct, an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred, in which case where an increment is –
(a) deferred – the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year.
(b) Stopped – the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year.
(c) suspended – the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer to stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
accrue to the Employee concerned.
Deferred, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the employee has been notified in writin g of a
complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which, in the
circumstances, does not merit termination of employment.
23. Warning.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the Employee by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate, the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
24. Suspension.–
1. An Employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer–
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal.
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage, the property or disturbance of the business of the Employer.
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
9A
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspensions and thereafter hold an inquiry
into the charge or charges in terms of clause 25 hereof.
25. Disciplinary Action.– Where an Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then–
1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 24 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show-cause, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or  charges of misconduct alleged against such Employee
and such show-cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer
or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show-cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show-cause notice  and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
3. If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith, be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show-cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10)  working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show-cause notice.
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings of each of the charges in the show-cause
notice and the punishment, If any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show-cause notice within thirty (30)  working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that–
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 24(1)( c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension
irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to
the charges in the show-cause notice;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show-cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
 is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or other authorities  or  if in
view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously
referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or
inquiries be awaited, then in either such circumstances,  the employee may remain suspended without pay.
7. If  in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein an Employer fails to make order under paragraphs (a) to
(c) of the preceding sub clause for any reason other than that of the Employee's own seeking within thirty (30) working days
from the date of the employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for a period of thirty
(30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess of thirty (30 ) days
up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding sub clause, irrespective of the
outcome of the inquiry.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
8. In any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (a) to (c)
of sub clause 6 within ninety (90)  days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from so doing by
reason of the Employee's own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the Federation
and any of  the Unions that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such further time as
may be agreed.
9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer proposes to warn
the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided, however, that if the Union disputes the warning or
punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry,  the Employer shall comply with such
request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall the apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had
not commenced within ten (10) working days after receipt of the Employee's explanation shall not be material or relevant.
26. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed  and there shall
be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an Employee who has retired
may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as may be mutually agreed.
27. Termination of Services.–
1. Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer, except for work usually performed by
the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (Subject to provisions of clause 5 hereof or unless otherwise expressly stipulated)
be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from month to
month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month's previous notice is given by either party to the
other  of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
2. Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof at
the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period or on the
failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
28. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members who is employed in any
workplace of the Employer in regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms and
conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the following provisions shall apply.
1. When the Union is representative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of the employees, whose membership subscription is
not in arrears, the Employer  will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and negotiate with it on that
basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty percentum (40%) of such employees, the
Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with all the Unions competent
to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such Union.
2. When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in the
service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined by reference
to the duly qualified members of the Employees  in the service of the Employer in Sri Lanka.
3. If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer, the Union is competent to make
general claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a Referendum, which shall be held by the Department
of Labour and the result of such Referendum shall be binding on the Employer and that Union and the parties hereto.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
11A
29. Disputes Procedure. -
1. In the first instance, the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer  and give the Employer
at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If in the Union’s opinion the employer’s reply is unsatisfactory
the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
2. Where the Union concludes that negotiations with the Employer  has been abortive it shall ask the Department of Labour
to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conferences and/ or discussions with
a view to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until the
Department of Labour reports failure.
3. Subject to the provisions of Clause 32 hereof all disputes between the union and the employer  shall be settled in accordance
with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
4. Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
30. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.  - Any anomaly, arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between representatives of the Federation  and the Union and if the matter
cannot be settled by negotiation, the matter  shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations
thereunder.
31. Trade Union Action. - The Union and  its members and  the employees covered and bound by this agreement  jointly and severally
agree with the employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action
against the employer in respect of any Trade Union action against the Employer in respect of any dispute between the Employer on the one hand
and the union and /or its members and /or any employees covered and bound by this Agreement on the other hand, whether or not such dispute
is related to  this Agreement  except where such dispute  has been caused by an act of an employer which in the opinion of the controlling body
(by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities
of the Union and/ or its members of is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/ or its members.
Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days’ notice in writing shall be given by the Union to the Employer concerned, the Federation and
the Commissioner-General of Labour before the date of commencement of any intended strike or other form of Trade Union action consequent
to an act of an Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or
calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the union and/or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously
detrimental to the interest of that union and/or its members.
32. Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment  Benefits.–
1.   The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by the agreement  jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or  add to all or any
of the terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by this
agreement  as amended or altered  in terms of  this Agreement, or  all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  any
of the  Employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
2. The Employer agrees with the union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement that he shall
not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  the employees covered and bound by
this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
3. Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses (1) or (2) may be resolved by
voluntary  arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING  THE  FACILITIES  AND  CONCESSIONS  GRANTED  BY  THE  EMPLOYER  TO  THE  UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the employer the  Union  commit a breach of any of the terms of this
Collective Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted by the
Employer in the succeeding clasuses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore such
facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show-cause notice in terms of Clause 25 is a member of the Union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show-cause notice.
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a member of  such Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘ Observer’)
to be present as an Observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show-cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show-cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the employee who is served with a show-cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reasons whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry
nor the proceedings there at nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.– The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union.
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the Union desires to hold at the Employer's premises, an application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more the under-noted
conditions:–
(i) That no person other than an Employee in the services of the employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union.
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, the Bearers of the Parent Union may, with the previous
approval of the Employer, attend.
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall  be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of such
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer's property or any other persons at the Employer's  premises and the Union shall
indemnify the Emplyer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
13A
4. Duty Leave.– The following provisions shall apply to duty leave.
1. Without prejudice to the right of the employer to refuse to grant permission if, at his discretion the Exigencies of the
circumstances warrants refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of the
Union–
(a) To be present at the Conference held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employers' Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
or
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without Loss of wages for such
absence.
2. The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course of
seminar or conference, either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to  Annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
5. Check-off.-
1.  This Clause shall apply to the Employer if in his Company the membership of the Union is not less than forty Per Centum
(40%) of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
2. The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee, deduct from the wages due to such Employee the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the
amount as deducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter
set forth.
3. Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as an “Authorization”) as set out in the First Schedule hereto.
4. Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 (hereinafter referred to as a “Revocation”) as set out in the First Schedule hereto.
5. As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
6. As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however –
(a) That an Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub-clauses (5) or (6);
(b) That, at his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in
which  the deduction by way of check-off,  will together with all other deductions from the Employee’s wages in that
month exceed the deductions permitted by Law.
7. The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the Union dues deduction from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
8. The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a Pre-Paid envelope, addressed
to the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
9. The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
10. The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than the
Union dues actually deducted.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
FORM NO. 1
Name of Employer:
Authorisation
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement affecting Employees employed in a manual or labouring capacity in
the …………………………… Trade and bearing No. ……………………… of 2014 and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check-
off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the ……………………… Union.
Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ……………… (Rs.………………………) in respect of my current monthly
membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages
next due, immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
………………………………
(Full name of Employee)
RECEIVED ON ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer: ………………………………………………………
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
………………………………………………… Union with effect from the wages next due to me, immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
………………………………
(Full name of Employee)
RECEIVED ON …………………… ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
15A
 PART III
CONTAINING  DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement, unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union of the United Tea, Rubber and Local Produce Workers’s Union covered
and bound by this Collective Agreement
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting at the request of the Union, subscription payable to the
Union by an Employee from the latter’s pay with his concurrence.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
(For convenience sometimes referred to
as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Industrial Disputes Act The Indusrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment
Union United Tea, Rubber and Local Produce Workers’ Union
W age The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa


<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015


<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
17A


<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015


<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
19A


<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
21A


<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015


<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
23A


<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
03 - 429

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
25A
         My No.: CI/1571.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Finalay Properties (Private) Ltd, No. 186, V auxhall Street,  Colombo 2 of the one part and
the United Tea, Rubber and Local Produce Worker’s Union, 513 - 2/1, Elvitigala, Mawatha, Colombo 5 of the other part on 01st da y of
August, 2014 is  hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactm ents of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
HERA TH YAPA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
22nd January, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 31 of 2014
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made on this 1st  day of  August Two Thousand Fourteen, to take  effect from the First day of January
Two Thousand Fourteen, between FINLAY PROPERTIES (PRIV ATE) Ltd., a Company having its registered office at  No. 186, Vauxhall
Street,  Colombo 2   (hereinafter referred to as the “Employer”) of the one part and THE UNITED TEA, RUBBER AND LOCAL
PRODUCE WORKERS' UNION a Trade Union duly registered under the provisions of the Trade Unions and having its registered office
at No. 513-2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 (hereinafter referred to as the “Union”) of the other part
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:
Title.–This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the FINLAY PROPERTIES (PRIV ATE) Ltd.  MANUAL WORKERS,
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT of  2014.
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MA TTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED
THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the  Employer the Union and all employees who are  members
of the Union and  are employed on monthly contract of employment.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall  be effective Form the First day of January Two Thousand Fourteen,
and shall  thereafter continue to be in force unless it is determined by either party giving one month’s  notice in  writing to the  other subject
to the proviso that one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party to commence before the First day of  Decembe r, Two
Thousand and Sixteen (2016 )  and  such notice shall not expire  before the Thirty First day of December Two Thousand Sixteen.
3. This Agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of the Finlay Properties (Private) Ltd. Manual Workers’ Collective
Agreement 2011.’’

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer  and Employee coverd and bound by this
Agreement  whether such contract of service be written or oral which was subsisting on the date hereof or which shall come in to being at any
time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
5. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months. Provided
however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the  Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employe e, the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the Employee
in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended.  During the period of probation or extended probation the Employer
shall have the right to terminate the Services of the Employee without notice. If the Employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfac-
tory service during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been Confirmed by the Employer the Employee
shall be deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation  as the
case may be, ended.
6. Attendance.–
1. Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on everyday (other
than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
2. If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in  his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
3. Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
7. Hours of Work.– The normal working hours shall be those hours, which are customarily worked at a store, factory, mill or job in
the Establishment of the Employer.
8. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer and Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
9. Overtime.–
 1. If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
2. Overtime work (work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one half (11/2) times the
normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(a) hereof.
10. Weekly Holiday.–
1.  In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday.
Provided however, that if any Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's
wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (b) hereof.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
27A
2. In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include -
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to Employee as annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of clause (11) hereof; and
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
3. The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and his
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee
within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month the Employee may with the consent of the Employee–
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage   computed
in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday, or
(b) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s
wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) T hat in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–
(a) One and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (a)
hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for meal); and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16 (a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer
for periods exceeding twelve (12) day in respect of the duration of each such period.
11. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Boards for
the Tea Export Trade, Engineering Trade and Motor Transport Trade, as the case may be.
12. Public Holidays.–
1. Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Boards for the Tea
Export Trade, Engineering Trade and Motor Transport Trade. Provided, however, that an employee may be employed
on a Public holiday in accordance with the Decisions of the relevant Wages Board.
2. If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day
either in the Six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall
be granted to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause10 hereof.
3. If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Saturday the
number of hours constituting the normal working day (inclusive of one hour for meal) on the day immediately preceding
such Public holiday shall be six and one half (6 1/ 2) hours.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
13. Casual Leave.–
 In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment  that  Employee shall
be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill  health if that Employee’s entitlement to sick leave
has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of periods not
exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration.
Provided however, that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken  at any time save  and except upon the ground of ill health.
Provided  further that any worker  shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period  of
annual holidays. Provided further that  in respect of any employee’s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be
entitled to Casual Leave  for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
 Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the application.
Where  an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to the Employee  as soon as
possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the
Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him Casual Leave.
14. Sick Leave.– In any year an Employee shall be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days provided that.
(a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer); and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of clause 5 hereof. Provided however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days  if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days  if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
15. Monthly Consolidated Wages.–
1. Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 thereof, the salaries of employee covered and bound by this Agreement will be
revised as follows ; -
(a) The Employer shall increase the salaries of employees covered by this agreement, by 12%, with effect from 1st
January 2014 on the salaries as at December 2013.
(b) Each Employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the salary scale set out in the First
Schedule hereto in the grade applicable to him. If there is no corresponding point, he shall be placed on the next
highest point on the same scale.
(c) Thereafter salaries will be increased by a further 4% with effect from 1st January 2015 on the salaries as at
December 2014.
(d) The salaries will be increased again by a further 3% with  effect from 1st January 2016 on the salaries as at
December 2015.
(e) In addition, with  effect from 1st January 2014 the employees who are so eligible will receive increments on the
following basis.
Current annual increment rates are Rs.
50 (Manual worker - tea export/ engineering unskilled)
75 (Engineering Skilled)
60 (Engineering Semi Skilled)
80 (Drivers 0 - 5 years of service)
100 (Drivers 5 - 10 years of service)
120 (Drivers over 10 years of service)

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
29A
2. The scales of the consolidated wages set  out in  Schedule 1 hereto include all statutory allowances as at the date of this
agreement.
3. This Agreement  shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
4. In lieu of the consolidation of salaries, based on the Colombo consumer price Index (CCPI), hitherto prevailed, with effect
from, First day of January 2014, a sum of Rs. 550/- will be added and the scales of consolidated wages set out in the First
schedule hereto shall be revised by addition to and by consolidation of the salary at such stage of each grade of each
employee.
In a similar manner a further sum of Rs. 550/- will be added with effect from First day of January 2015 and again a further
sum of Rs. 800/= will be added with effect from First day of January 2016 and the scales of consolidated wages in the First
schedule hereto shall be revised by addition to and by consolidation of the salary at such stage of each grade of each
employee.
The Employer also agrees to make a payment to each employee covered by this Agreement, by way of Notional arrears,
(for the period January 2014 to July 2014) a sum equivalent to 12% (on the salary as at December 2013) x 7 and
Rs. 550/- x 7 including overtime.
However, parties agree that such payments made by way of notional arrears for the period January 2014 to July 2014, shall
not attract concequential benefits such as, EPF/ ETF, etc.
5. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka –
(a) Prescribes increase in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increase in wages prescribed by such written law and
in terms of such written law;
(b) Recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of
whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
16. Wages for Periods Less Than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of an Employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the following manner :
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred  (200)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by twenty six (26)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
17. Production Bonus in lieu of NRCLG .–  The Employer, the Union and the employees agree that a payment guaranteeing a
minimum amount of Rs. 27,000 per annum (Rs. 2,250 per month) will be paid to each employee covered and bound by this agreement,
provided however, that the quantum of this payment (subject to the minimum payment of Rs. 27,000 per annum) will be calculated in
accordance with the under -noted formula and subject to the provisions of the succeeding sub clause of this paragraph.
The Formula :
BULK RANGE -MT RUPEES TB RANGE-MT RUPEES PACKET RANGE-MT RUPEES
Less than 10 20 Less than 40 600.00 Less than 100 500
11 - 20 30 41 - 45 637.5 100 - 150 625
21 - 30 50 46 - 50 712.5 151 - 200 875
31 - 40 70 51 - 55 787.5 201 - 250 1125
41 - 50 90 56 - 60 862.5 251 - 300 1375
51 - 60 110 61 - 65 937.5 301 - 350 1625
61 - 70 130 66 - 70 1012.5 351 - 400 1875
71 - 80 150 71 - 75 1087.5 401 - 450 2125
81 - 90 170 76 - 80 1162.5 451 - 500 2375
91 - 100 190 81 - 85 1237.5 501 - 550 2625

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
 (i) The calculation on the above formula will be on a monthly basis and will be subject to a maximum payment of Rs. 3,500 per
month.
(ii) The above payment shall be payable by the Employer to an Employee who is eligible to receive the same by virtue of his
service under the Employer during a part of the year by reason of the fact that he is not in the Employer's service when the
payment becomes due in January of any year or he joined the Employer's service during the course of the qualifying year.
(Qualifying period will be from January to December).
(iii) The above payment shall not be payable to an Employee in respect of any period for which he received no wages for
whatever reason.
(iv) The formula referred to above is based on the number of machines available and the capacity of the factory at present.
Acquisition of new machinery in the future by the employer, parties agree to amend the formula referred to above.
(v) No Provident Fund, Trust fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on the above payment.
18. Provident Fund.–
1. An Employer and Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates  prescribed by the Employees' Provident Fund
Act No. 15 of 1958.
2. Subject to the provisions of the Employees' Trust fund Act No. 46 of 1980, where an Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employees'
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Skills Allowance.– An allowance of Rs. 400 per month will be paid to the employees who are identified for placement
as Electricians and Mechanics. Similarly, Machine Operators, Forklift Operators and Quality checkers will be paid an allowance of
Rs. 350. Thereafter when the Employees acquire vocational qualifications prescribed by the company, subject to them been placed in the
relevant grade and re-designated, they will become entitled to a further increase of Rs. 400, and Rs. 350 respectively. The total amounts of
Rs. 800  (Electricians and mechanics) and Rs. 700 (Machine Operators, Forklift Operators and Quality checkers) respectively wil l be
consolidated into the salary of each employee and the allowance will be discontinued forthwith.
These employees who have already been entitled for the aforementioned payments previously will be paid the difference as
indicated below and the following amount will be consolidated to the salary with effect from 01st January 2014.
– Electricians and Mechanics  Rs. 300/-
– Machine Operators, Forklift Operators and Quality checkers Rs. 200/-
The above training will be conducted by the company or by an Institute recommended by the Company. The Company agrees to bear
the course fee, if any.
20. Terminal Benefits.–
1. Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, pay terminal benefits to Employees in  accordance with the scheme of
terminal benefits set out in this Clause.
2. The scheme shall apply to every Employee in the service of an Employer on the First day of January Two Thousand
Fourteen or  who joins the service of an Employer on any day after the First day of January Two Thousand Fourteen as
long as this Agreement continues in force.
3. As and by way of terminal benefits the Employer shall pay an Employee a sum equivalent to one month's wages for each
year of service less the Employer's contribution to the Provident and Trust Funds but excluding interest thereon.
4. The wage on which the said  terminal benefits under sub-clause (3) hereof shall be payable will be the last monthly wage
receivable by an employee on which Provident Fund is payable and shall not include any production bonus payment made
in lieu of NRCLG.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
31A
5. For the purpose of calculating terminal benefits under this Clause, an year of service shall be a period of not less than six
months.
6. The terminal benefits provided for in this Clause shall be payable to an Employee on the cessation of his services arising
from death or any other cause whatsoever, provided, however, that if at the date of cessation of an employee's services
there is due to this Employer from the Employee any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation of any other account and
the same cannot be recovered from the amount to the Employee's credit in the Provident Fund, the same shall be recovered
from the terminal benefits provided for herein.
7. The provisions of this Clause shall not apply to Employers who operate a more favourable scheme of terminal benefits.
8. On the death of an Employee whilst in service, who is eligible to receive terminal benefits under this Clause, his Employer
shall pay such terminal benefits in the manner and to the persons hereinafter set forth.
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of the deceased Employee's  Provident fund at the date of his
death, to the nominee or nominees of such Employee in conformity with  the form of nomination where such nominee
is surviving  and of full age.
(b) Where there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or in one or more of the nominees having
predeceased, the  Employee  or in the event of a nominee being minor at the time that the payment of the terminal
benefits become due, the Employer shall make payment only after the person or persons entitled to the payment
have established their claim in law and furnished proof thereof.
9. In the event of any written law providing for the payment of  gratuity or terminal benefits the more favorable scheme shall
apply  but not both.
10. No. Employee shall be entitled to any gratuity or terminal benefits in addition to the terminal benefits provided for in this
Clause  or by any written law as the case may be.
21. Bonus.–
1. Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to  the Employer's  claim that  bonus  Payment in the past
and as provided  in this Agreement are  ex-gratia, the Employer  will  subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each
of his Employees who have not been on unauthorized absence, a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid
to him as his bonus for the year immeditely preceding the signing of this Agreement, In  exceptional circumstances to be
determined by the management on a case by case basis, an employee who had been on unauthorized absence may be
considered for payment of bonus. If in any year  the Employer, at his descretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than
the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of  this Agreement,
the Union may canvass such reduction of bonus with the Employer. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in this
matter, the Union may pursure this matter with the Federation. If the dispute as to the reduction of bounus is not settled with
the Federation , the same shall be referred to  a Committee of three persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘‘bonus Committee’’)
which shall be constituted in  accordance with the provisions of sub-clause  (2) for settlement in the manner hereinafter set
forth.
2. At the written request of the parties to the dispute, as to the reduction of the bonus, the Commissioner General of Labour
will constitute a Bounus Committe,  which shall consist of three Senior  Accountants mominated by the Council of the
chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka.
The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least 10 years’ post qualification Experience, The selection of the
three Chartered Accountants will be Communicated  by the Institute of  Chartered Accountants  to the Commissoner General
of  Labour to the Emlployer, the Union and the Federation.
Thereupon the Commissioner-General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee so
constituted  a Statement of Principles and Procedure by which the members  the Bonus Committee  shall be bound in  settling
the  dispute as to the reduction of bonus.
3. Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the Principles and Procedure from the Commissioner General of
Labour  the Bonus Committee shall, in accordance with the said Principles and Procedure, decide whether the reducition
of the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should
be reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate the decision in writing to the fedaration and the Union and
Commissioner -General of Labour.

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such  decisions shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute
and the Union and/or  its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of trade Union action or otherwise
during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If however, the Bonus Committee is divided in its decision then the
decision of the Commissioner -General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute and
the Commissioner's decision shall be communicated in writing by the Commissioner General of Labour to the Federation,
and the Union/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during
the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus in the year immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement.
5. The fees payable  to the members of each Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as reduction
of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner-General of Labour.
6. The payment of bonus exceeding  the sum of money paid as bonus to Employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of this Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the Employer and shall not be called in question by the Union or
any of its members nor shall the Employer's failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
7. The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply  to the existing bonus scheme.
At the request of the Commissioner-General of Labour, the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three Chartered Accountants  without  less than 10 years of post-qualification experience drawn from a
professional Accountancy Firm to serve on the Bonus Committee.
22. Annual Increments.– The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wage in the First Schedule
hereto shall be automatic unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctua lity
or disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct, an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred, in which case where an
increment is –
(a) deferred - the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout  the year.
(b) stopped - the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during  the year.
(c) suspended - the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer to stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon  a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspensions. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor  deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
accure to the Employee concerned.
Deferred, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases  where the Employee has been notified in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which, in  the
circumstances, does not merit termination of employment.
23. Warning.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the Employee by a
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate, the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
24. Suspension.–
1. An Employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer –
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal.
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage, the property  or disturbance of the business of the Employer.
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry;

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
33A
x
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)( a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspensions and thereafter, hold an
inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 25 hereof.
25. Disciplinary Action.– Where an Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then.–
1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 24 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or  charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than Three (3) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice  and where such request is made by an  Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
3. If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Ten (10)  working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, If any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if  any Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30)  working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that;
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 24(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespec-
tive of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the
charges in the show cause notice;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed -the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s suspen-
sion and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or  other authorities or if in
view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously
referred to the Police or  other authorities for investigation or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or
inquiries be awaited, then in either such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
7. If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein an Employer fails to make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from  the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension
in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes and order under paragraphs ( a) to (c) of the
preceding  sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
8. In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein, an Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of  sub-clause (6)  within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the  Federation and any of   the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of  ninety (90) days be extended for
such further time  as may be agreed.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
9. An Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses (4) and (5) hereof where the Employer
proposes  to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the
Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then
apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after the
receipt of the Employee’s  explanation shall not be material or relevant.
26. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be Employed  and there
shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an Employee who has
retired  may, at the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as may be mutually
agreed.
27. Termination of Service.-
1. Every contract,whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for work usually performed
by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 5 hereof or unless otherwise expressly
stipulated) be deemed  and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable
from month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice is given
by either party to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
2. Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual  or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or on the failure of the Employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.
28. Union Recognition.- The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf  of  its members who is employed in any
workplace of the Employer  in regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms and
conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the following provisions shall apply:–
1. When the Union is  representative of not less than forty per cent. (40%) of the employees  whose membership subscription
is not in arrears, the Employer will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and negotiate with it
on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of  not less than forty percentum (40%) of such
employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with all the
Unions competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such
Union.
2. When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of the of Employees in the service of the Employer in Sri Lanka.
3. If  becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer, the Union is competent to make
general claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a Referendum, which shall be held by the
Department of Labour and the result of such Referendum shall be binding on the Employer and that Union and the parties
hereto.
29. Disputes Procedure.–
1. In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand  on behalf of its members to the Employer and give the Employer
at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply.  If in the Union’s opinion the Employer’s  reply is unsatisfactory
the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
2. Where the Union concludes that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive it shall ask the Department of Labour
to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working day’s to arrange Conferences and/or discussions with
a View to a settlement of the  dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of Labour shall then proceed until
the Department of Labour reports failure.
3. Subject to the provisions of clause 32 hereof all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties
hereto shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
4. Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair Labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
35A
30. How Anomalies In The Course of Implementing  this Agreement Shall be Dealt With .- Any anomaly, arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between representatives of the Federation and the Union and if the matter
cannot be settled by negotiation, the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the
regulations  thereunder.
31. Trade Union Action.– The union and its members and the Employees  covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
Trade Union action against the Employer in respect of any Trade Union action against the Employer in respect of any dispute between the
Employer on the one hand and the Union and/or its members and/or any employees covered and bound by this Agreement on the other hand,
whether or not such dispute is related to this Agreement, except where such dispute has been caused by and act of an Employer which, in
the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine
the existence or the ligitimate activities of that Union and/or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the intrests of the
Union and or its members.
Provided however that at least seven (7) days notice in writing shall be given by the union to the Employer concerned the
Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of any intended strike or other form of trade union
action consequent to an  act of an  Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body  (by whatsoever name called)  of the union is mala
fide  or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the union and/or its members or is grossly
unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of that Union and/or its members.
32. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment  Benefits.–
1. The Union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by the Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or  add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement
as amended or altered  in terms of  this Agreement, all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  any of the employees
covered and bound by this agreement other than by mutual agreement.
2. The Employer agrees with the union and its members and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement that he shall
not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  the employees covered and bound by
this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
3. Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses (1) or (2) may be resolved by
voluntary  arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING  THE  FACILITIES  AND  CONCESSIONS  GRANTED  BY  THE  EMPLOYER  TO  THE  UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer the Union  commits a breach of any of he terms of this
Collective Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted by the
Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore such
facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide:
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show - cause notice in terms of clause 25 is a member of the union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show - cause notice-
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a  member of such  Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an Observer’)
to be present as an observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show -cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held
pursuant to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement
of the inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show - cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.

<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.– The following Provisions shall apply to  Meetings of the Union–
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the  Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, and application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions:-
(i) That no person other than an Employee in the services of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, the Bearers of the Parent Union may with the previous
approval of the employer, attend;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union  shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of such
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of, or in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s  premises and the Union
shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–  The following provisions shall apply to duty leave: -
1. Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two (2) office bearers of
the Union
(a) To be present at the conference held under  the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
or
(b) To attend  inquiries  before  Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss of wages for such absence.
2. The Employer will in his discretion grant leave without remuneration to an employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference, either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the employee concerned is entitled to  annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.
5. Check-off.-
1. This Clause shall apply to the Employer if in his Company the membership of the Union is not less than forty per centum
(40%) of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
2. The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employee the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit the
amount as deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter
setforth.
3. Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as an ‘Authorization’) as set out in the First Schedule hereto.
4. Every Employee shall be entitiled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Revocation’) as set out in the First Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
37A
5. As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter untill the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
6. As far as practicable deduction under and authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however –
(a) That an Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub-clauses (5) or (6);
(b) That at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in
which  the deductions by way of check-off, will together with all other deductions from the Employee’s wages in that
month exceed the deductions permitted by Law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth  day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurers thereof and crossed ‘‘Account Payee’’.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to
the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
Union to dues actually deducted.
FORM N
O. 1
Name of Employer:
Authorization
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement  affecting Employees employed in a manual or labouring capacity in
the ......................................................................... Trade and bearing No. ........................... . of  2014 and I desire to avail myself of the
facility for check-off  contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the ...................................................................
Union.
Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ……………… (Rs....................  ) in respect of my current monthly membe rship
dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages next due
immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
                                                                ………………………………
                                                                   (Full name of Employee)
              RECEIVED ON ………………………………
                                                   (To be filled by Employer)

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer: ..................................................
Revocation
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
......................................................................................... Union, with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date
hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
                                                                        ………………………………
                                                                           (Full name of Employee)
  RECEIVED ON ………………………………
                                 (To be filled by the Employer)
PART III
CONTAINING  DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to
them:-
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union of the United Tea, Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union covered and
bound by this Collective Agreement.
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting at the request of the Union, subscription payable to the
Union by an employee from the latter’s pay with his Concurrence.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
(For convenience sometimes referred to
as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950.
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment.
Union United Tea ,Rubber and Local Produce Workers Union
W age The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
39A


<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015


<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
41A


<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'02'27
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.02.2015
03 - 430
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA