

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2912
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2912
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"049 – 2017 foieïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'12'08
No. 2,049 –  fRiday ,  dEcEmbER  08, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th december, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th december, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2909-b 812132- 5,403 (12/2017)
Note.–    (i) Sri Natha ahasthana international buddhist meditation centre Performance Society (incorporation) bill was published as a 
supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 17, 2017.
 (ii) mohan Lanka foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 17, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2910
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2911
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the Examination 
as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they should act in 
accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than the 
one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act with 
a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number and 
his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another candidate’s 
index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is considered 
as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing an index 
number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should not 
write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should 
be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer script. 
(Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written inside the 
Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been answered  
twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. Failure to abide 
by these requirements may be considered as an attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered as 
a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file cover, 
card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought into the 
Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these 
instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2912
Posts – vacant
mINISTRy  Of  PRISON  REfORmS,  REhAbILITATION,  RESETTLEmENT  AND  hINDu 
RELIGIOuS AffAIRS
Notification
thE Notice relevant to the recruitment for the post of Legal Officer, Executive category of the Ministry of Prison Reforms, 
Rehabilitation, Resettlement and hindu Religious affairs on open basis was published on the Part i Section (iia) of the 
Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 12.04.2017 , under the Notice No. 04-503.
however, i do hereby declare that the notice relevant to the said recruitment is temporarily revoked.
 Secretary (Acting),
 ministry of Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and 
 hindu Religious affairs.
12 -73
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  RuRAL  ECONOmICS 
AffAIRS
Department of Animal Production and health
REcRuitmENt  to thE PoStS of RESEaRch 
aSSiStaNt iN GRadE iii of thE SRi LaNka 
tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE – 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited by the director General 
of the animal Production and health for the Sri Lanka 
technological Service competitive Examination to recruit 
for the post of Research assistant in Grade iii of the 
department of animal Production and health.
02. examination.– the examination will be held in 
february, 2018 in kandy by the director General of animal 
Production and health . the right to postpone or cancel the 
examination shall be with the director General.
03. Condition of the Service.– Recruitment will be made 
to the post of Research assistant grade iii subjected to the 
general conditions of the Public Service and the following 
conditions governing the appointments of the Public Service.
 (i) The selected officer is subjected to the conditions 
of serving in any part of the island.
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable. the 
selected applicant should contribute to the Widows' 
/ Widowers' and orphan' pension fund as stipulated 
by the government from time to time.
 (iii) The officers, who are recruited under the open 
competitive examination, will be on probation 
for a period of 3 years. If a Public officer already 
confirmed in a permanent post in the Public 
Service is appointed, he will be kept under the 
acting period for a period of one year. The officers 
who are appointed by the open competitive 
examination should pass the relevant 1st efficiency 
bar examination before confirmed in the post.
 (iv) All the officers who have recruited for the public 
service should obtain the proficiency in an official 
language in addition to the official language 
medium in which they gained qualifications to 
enter the Public Service within 05 years from the 
date of appointment .
 (v) The selected officer is subjected to the orders of 
the Public Service commission provisions of 
the Establishments Code, financial regulations 
and conditions and regulations issued by the 
Government from time to time and the regulations 
of the ministry and department.
04. Salary Scale :
 mN –  3 – 2016 – Post of Research assistant Grade 
iii of the Sri Lanka technological Service.
 Rs. 31,040 – 10 x 445 – 11 x 660 – 10 x 730 – 10 x 
750 - Rs. 57,550/= 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2913
 (monthly as per Public administration circular 
03/2016)
 
this post is entitled to the salary steps Rs. 31,040 
– 18 x 445 – Rs. 39,050. The officer of the Grade 
iii should pass the 1
st efficiency bar examination 
before the 3rd increment.
05. Age Limit :
 (i) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 
30 years at the closing date of the application.
06. Educational and Vocational Qualifications :
Educational Qualification :
G.c.E. (a.L) in three science subjects in the stream 
of Science / maths including two subjects from 
chemistry, agriculture and biology and pass the 
examination in one and the same sitting.
and
Should have passed G.c.E. (ordinary Level) 
examination in one sitting in 06 subjects with credit 
passes for Sinhala / tamil / English Language, 
mathematics, Science, and one other subject.
Vocational Qualifications :
 Should have obtained the two year diploma 
certificate in Animal Husbandry from an Institute 
recognized by the commission of tertiary and 
V ocational Education.
or
 Should have completed NVQ 6
th standard of 
National V ocational Qualification relevant to the 
field of Animal Husbandry.
or
 Should have obtained other technical qualifications 
similar to the above mentioned qualifications 
in all respects recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational education commission subsequently in 
consultation with the ministry of higher education 
and the institutes issuing above mentioned technical 
certificates (Should have obtained the certificate at 
the closing date of the applications)
Note :-
 Should have obtained qualifications on or before the 
closing date of the applications. the applications 
which are awaiting results will be rejected.
Physical Fitness :
 
 Should be physically fit and bear an excellent moral 
character, the physical fitness should be proved by 
a medical certificates.
Other :
 (i) applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 
 (ii) Should bear an excellent character
 (iii) only when the candidate has completed all the 
qualifications and the relevant age limit in all 
respects at the closing date of the applications 
it would be accepted his/her eligibility at sitting 
for the competitive examination of recruiting to 
the post.
07. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments will be made 
on the results of the written competitive examination and 
general interview. the candidates will be called for the 
interview based on the allocated vacancies and on the order 
of the aggregate marks obtained at the written examination.
Written examination :
this examination will be comprised with 02 papers.
Subjects Duration Maximum 
marks
Passed 
marks
1. intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
2. General paper 
 (technical and
 subject related test)
01 hour 100 40
08. examination :
 
 (i) the examination will be conducted in Sinhala / 
tamil and English medium.
 (ii) candidates may answer in any language.
 (iii) Permission will not be given to change the 
Language medium applied at the Examination.
 (iv) the Examination fee will be Rs. 400/=
 (v) a  money order drawn in favour of the director 
General animal Production and health 
encashable at the post office Peradeniya 
should be affixed on the relevant cage in the 
application.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2914
 (vi) Syllabus :
 (a) Intelligence Test :
  this question paper is designed to examine 
the applicant's logical reasoning, analytical 
thinking and the ability to take decisions.
 (b) General Question Paper (Question paper in 
Technology and subject related)
 (i) Identification and maintenance of 
laboratory equipment .
 (ii) the tests used for diagnosis
  (Pathology, Parasitology, 
microbiology, Serology, Nutrition)
 (iii) the tests used for animal husbandry
  (Physical tests, chemical tests, 
Sensitive tests)
 (iv) cleanliness of the Laboratory, 
sterilization
 (v) obtaining samples, storing and 
transport
09. Method of Application :
 (i) the application should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen application form attached to this 
notification. Application should be prepared on paper 
8 1/2 x 12 (a4) using both sides of it. the application 
should be sent under registered cover to reach the 
director General, department of animal Production 
and health, P.o. box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya 
on or before 31.12.2017. the words ''competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of 
Technical Officer Grade III'' should be written on 
the top left hand corner of the envelop clearly. the 
applications received after the closing date will be 
rejected.
 Note :
 (i) the candidates who are in the Public Service 
should forward their application through the 
head of the department / institute.
 (ii) incomplete applications will be rejected. 
No allegation that an application has been 
delayed or lost in the post will be considered.
 (iii) application will not be acknowledged. 
a notice announcing the date of the 
examination will be published in the 
newspapers. if admission are not received 
within four days prior to the date of the 
examination, the candidates are requested to 
inform the director General, department of 
animal Production and health immediately 
with the following particulars.
 (i) full names of the applicant
 (ii) address
 (iii) date of posting, registered No. and 
post office
10. the Photostat copies of the following should be 
attached to the application.
 (i) Certificate of Birth
 (ii) Educational / V ocational Certificates
Identity of the Candidate.– Every candidate is required to 
prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the Supervisor. the following  documents are accepted 
for that purpose.
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
commissioner General of Registration of 
Persons.
 (ii) a  valid Passport (issued 3 years prior to the date 
of the examination)
Submission of False Information.– if  it reveals that a 
candidate has not gained the required qualifications to sit 
for the examination his/ her candidature can be cancelled 
before or during the examination or after the examination 
or at any stage. if it appears that a candidate has submitted 
false information knowingly he / she will be dismissed from 
service.
the candidates should draw their attention and adhere to 
the general conditions pertaining to the appointment to the 
Public Service stipulated in the Paragraph (3) of this Gazette 
notification and rules and regulations for the candidates.
11. if Sinhala / tamil or English versions of the Gazette 
notification are comparative the Sinhala versions will be 
accepted.
12. the director General, department of animal 
Production and health deserves himself the right to take a 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2915
decision with regard to a problem arisen about the number to 
be recruited and that will be the final decision.
  dr. R. m. ariyadasa,
  director General of animal Production and 
  health. (acting).
department of animal Production and health,
Peradeniya,
15th November, 2017.
Ministry of rural econoMics affairs
departMent of aniMal production and HealtH
ReCRuITMeNT TO The POSTS OF ReSeARCh 
ASSISTANT IN GRADe III OF The SRI LANkA 
TeChNOLOGICAL SeRvICe
medium selected
  (For office use only)
(Write the relevant number
in the cage) 
 Sinhala  – 2
 t amil – 3
 English  – 4
01. Name :
  1.1 Name with initials (in block letters) 
   (example : SiLV a. b. a.) :––––––––––––.
  1.2 full Name in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
  1.3 N.i.c. No. :
02.  (2.1) address :––––––––––––.
   Private address :––––––––––––.
   Official Address :––––––––––––.
   the address to which the admission card to be 
sent :––––––––––––.
  (2.ii)  contact Numbers :
   mobile :––––––––––. Residence :––––––––––.
03.  3.1 Sex (mark the relevant cage) :
     female
     male
  3.2 date of birth :
   y ear month date
  3.3 age as at the closing date of the application :
   y ears months days
  3.4 civil Status : (mark the relevant cage)
     married
     Single
04. Educational Qualifications :
  4.1  G.c.E. (o/L) :  
   y ear   :––––––––––––. month  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade  Index No.
 
  4.2  G.c.E. (a/L) : 
   y ear   :––––––––––––. month  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade  Index No.
  4.3 (a)  the institute from where the vocational 
qualifications obtained :––––––––––––.
   (b)  the year in which the vocational 
qualifications obtained :––––––––––––.
05. the present occupation and the previous posts held (if 
available) :
Post institute From To

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2916
06. The Name of the post office to which the examination 
fees had been paid :
 No of the money order :––––––––––––.
 the examination fee is Rs. 400/ =. it can be paid to 
any post office in the island in favour of the Director 
General, Animal Production  and Health. Affix the 
Receipt here.
07. i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct. i am also aware that 
if any of the information furnished by me is found to be 
false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before 
selection or to be dismissed without  any compensation 
if such detection is made after appointment.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent 
posts in the public service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that the applicant mr/ mrs/ miss ..............
.................................................................. is serving in 
this department as a ................................................... and 
foregoing particulars were checked by me and found to 
be correct. he / She could / could not be released from the 
present post held by him / her if selected for the above post.
  –––––––––––––––,
  head of the department.
  (Rubber stamp should be used)
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
12 - 08
––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of PRImARy INDuSTRIES
Department of Export Agriculture
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR 
REcRuitmENt to thE PoSt of tEchNicaL 
officER (ciViL) of cLaSS iii
of SRi LaNka tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE foR 
dEPaRtmENt of ExPoRt aGRicuLtuRE – 2017
aPPLicatioNS are hereby invited from the citizens of Sri 
Lanka to fill the vacancies in the Post of Technical Officer 
(civil) of class iii of Sri Lanka technological Service in the 
department of Export agriculture.
02. the applicants should not be less than 18 years and 
more than 30 years of age. the requirements related to the 
age are deemed to have met only if the applicants dates of 
birth fall on or before 08.01.2000 and on or after 08.01.1988.
03. this post is entitled to the monthly salary scale of 
Rs. 31,040- 10 x 445 – 11 x 660- 10 x 730 -10 x 750 – 
Rs. 57,550/- as per Public mN – 3- 2016 as at 01.01.2020. 
actions will be taken to pay salaries as per administration 
circular No. is 03/2016.
04. this is a permanent and pensionable post. you will 
be subject to policy decisions made by the Government on 
this pension Scheme in the future. further , you must make 
contribution  to the  Widow/  Widower and orphans' pension 
Scheme. contribution to this fund must be made by you as 
may be ordered by the Government from time to time.
05. It is essential that the applicants have fulfilled all 
the basic Educational Qualifications and professional 
qualifications mentioned below, by the closing date for 
receiving applications.
Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed the 
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination in 06 Subjects with 
credits for Sinhala/ tamil/ English Languages, 
Science, mathematics and any other subject at one 
sitting.
and
Should have passed the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
in one sitting in three (03) Subjects including 
any two (02) Subjects from combined maths, 
chemistry, Physics, civil technology, Engineering 
technology and Science for technology.
Professional Qualifications :
 (i) National diploma in technology awarded by 
the university of moratuwa of hardy advanced 
technological institute, ampara.
 (ii) the National diploma in Engineering awarded by 
the National apprentice and industrial training 
authority.
 (iii) the higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the ministry of Education and higher 
Education.
 (iv) diploma in technology awarded by the open 
university of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2917
 (v) Successful completion of Part 1 of the Engineering 
Examination conducted by Sri Lanka institute of 
Engineering.
 (vi) Completion of National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) level 6 relevant to the field of profession 
concerned.
 (vii) Any other Technical qualification recognized 
by the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission as equivalent in all respects to 
the above mentioned Technical qualifications, 
following the opinions obtained by consulting the 
ministry of higher Education and the institutes 
issuing above mentioned Technical certificates.
06. Mode of Applying :
 (a) application forms should be duly prepared  using 
both sides of an a4 (21 cm x 29 cm ) sized  sheet 
including Section 01 to 07 on the first page while 
the nest of the pages should carry the other pages 
respectively in accordance to the Specimen 
application form appended to this Gazette 
notification. Applications should be filled by the 
candidate himself / herself in clear hand writing, 
Application must be filled in medium language 
applicant is appearing for the examination.
 (b) both Sinhala and tamil medium applicants should 
have the name of the examination written in the 
title in English.
 (c) Duly filled application forms should be forwarded 
under registered post to the director General, 
department of Export agriculture, P.o. box 
1095, Sirimavo bandaranayaka mawatha, 
Peradeniya on or before 08.01.2018 the caption 
''open competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of Technical Officer (Civil) of Class 
iii of Sri Lanka technological Service in the 
department of Export agriculture 2017'' should 
be clearly written on the top left – hand corner of 
the envelope containing the application form.
 (d) the original receipt with the machine frank, 
obtained in respect of the examination fee of              
Rs. 500/- which could be payable at any branch 
of a bank to be credit to account No. 7042612 
of the bank of ceylon, Peradeniya branch, must 
be affixed in the relevant space provided in the 
application.
 (e) applications that are not in conformity with the 
Specimen application form included in this 
notification, or not complete in every respect, 
applications received after the closing date will be 
rejected without prior notice and the department 
will not be liable for the loss of applications in the 
post or for any postal delays. it may be useful to 
retain a photocopy of the application with you.
 (f) the signature of the applicant must have been 
attested both on the application and the admission 
card for the examination. a person applying for the 
examination through a certain institute , must get 
his/her signature attested by the respective head of 
the department or by an  officer authorized  by the 
head of the department , and the other applicants 
must get their signatures attested by a principal 
of a Government School, the Grama Niladhari 
of the relevant division, a Justice of the Peace, 
a commissioner of oath, a Lawyer, a Public 
Notary, a commissioned officer of the Tri – forces 
or an officer in the Provincial Public Service or in 
a permanent Staff Grade post.
 (g) the candidates who are already in Public Service 
should forward their application forms through 
the head of the department.
07.  Examination Procedure :
 (a) this Examination will be conducted by the 
department of technical Education and training.
 (b) admission will be issued by the director 
General of technical Education and training 
to the candidates who are within the age limits 
mentioned  in the notification and have forwarded 
their application forms before the closing date 
for receiving application. the candidate should  
produce the admission containing to attested 
signature the Supervisor of the Examination hall 
prescribed to him / her. any candidate who fails to 
produce the admission card will not be allowed to 
sit for the Examination.
 (c) t ravel or any other expenses  incurred by the 
candidate in order to appear for the Examination 
will not be reimbursed.
 (d) Identity.– the candidate should prove his / her 
identity in a manner satisfactory to the Supervisor 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2918
in respect of all the subjects he / she sits for. for 
this purpose.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or;
 (ii) a Valid Passport will be accepted.
  the candidates who fail to produce documents 
to prove their identity will not be allowed to 
sit for the Examination.
 (e) Syllabus :
Subject 
No.
Subject Time 
(hours)
Total 
Marks
Pass 
Mark
01 intelligence test 1 100 40%
02 common test 
(technical and 
Subject related 
test)
3 100 40%
 (i) Intelligence Test :
  the  exam consists of question to determine 
the candidate's ability of logical reasoning, 
analytical thinking, and decision making.
 (ii) Common Test (Technical) Subject related 
Test)
  knowledge on surveying and leveling
  knowledge on the application and standard 
of building materials
   methods and locations of the application 
of foundations, wall constructions, timber 
roofing, iron truss, pillar concrete beams and 
concrete pillars, foundation floors, stairs
 	construction of buildings and preparation of 
estimates.
  Estimating of the amount of building 
materials and worker labour required for 
relevant estimates and constructions
  Structure of bending / Shear force diagram
  knowledge on electricity, water and 
sewerage
 (f) the examination will be held in Sinhala, English 
and tamil media and the candidates who sit for 
the exam should appear for all the subjects of the 
examination in one medium Language only.
08. Conditions of Employment :
 (i) Even though Vacancies for this post exist only 
in the head office at Gatambe, the candidates 
selected are bound to serve in a manner 
covering all the Sub – offices on the Island.
 (ii) The recruited officers will be subject to a 
probationary service period of 03 years.
09. Mode of Recruitment. – a number of candidates 
equivalent to four times the number of vacancies expected to 
be filled, will be called  for the interview on the merit order 
of the total marks obtained by the candidates who obtained 
40% or more marks for every question paper prescribed for 
the written Examination.
10. issuing of admission to appear for the Examination 
will not be considered as an acceptance that the candidate 
is qualified for the post. The candidature will be cancelled 
if it will be revealed that the candidate lacks necessary 
qualifications on the occasion the candidates are called for 
an interview and their qualifications are checked according 
to the Gazette notification.
11. in the event of any matter not mentioned herein will 
be decided by the appointing authority. Every candidate is 
obliged to follow the Examination rules and regulations 
mentioned in the Gazette notification.
12. the candidate who have paid the relevant 
Examination fee and forwarded the applications on or before 
the closing date will be allowed to sit for the competitive 
Examination on the presumption that only those who have 
the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have 
applied.
13. if any inconsistency exists among the texts of this 
notifications published in Sinhala, Tamil and English, the 
Sinhala Medium notification shall prevail.
  dr. a. P. 
Heenkenda,
  director General of Export agriculture.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2919
  (For Office Use Only)
speciMen application forM
Y%S ,xld ;dlaIK fiajfha wmkhk lDIsl¾u fomd¾;fïka;=fõ iii fY%AKsfha ld¾ñl ks,OdÍ
^isú,a& ;k;=r i`oyd n`ojd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2017
application for tHe coMpetitive exaMination for recruitMent to tHe post of tecHnical 
officer (civil) of class iii of tHe sri lanka tecHnological service in tHe departMent of export agriculture – 2017
      medium applied : Sinhala  2
  tamil 3 
  English 4 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :-
   1.1 Name in full (in English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
    (example :- hERath mudiyaNSELaGE SamaN kumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
   1.2 Name with initials:
    (Surname followed by the initials of the other name in English capital letter) :––––––––––––.
    (example : GuNaWaRdhaNa.h.m.S.k.)
02. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
 (in capital English Letters)
   2.1 address to which admission card should be posted :––––––––––––.
    (in capital English Letters)
   2.2 contact Number (if available ) :- mobile :
         Landline :
03. National identity card No. :
 
04. Gender : female 1 male 0
     (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. marital Status :
    married – 2 unmarried – 1
     (Write the relevant number in the cage)
06.  6.1  date of birth : y ear : month : d ate :
  6.2  age as at the closing date of applications (08.01.2018) :
    y ears :   months :   days :

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2920
07. Educational Qualifications :
   (a) G.c.E. (o/L):-
    y ear & month :–––––––––––––.
    index Number :–––––––––––––.
    Language medium :–––––––––––––.
 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
   (b) G.c.E. (a/L) :-
    y ear & month :–––––––––––––.
    index Number :–––––––––––––.
    Language medium :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade 
1
2
3
4
   (c) Professional Qualifications (Diploma 
    Qualifications) :
 (i) Name of course followed :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Name of the institute where the course was 
followed :––––––––––––.
 (iii) y ear of passing the exam :––––––––––––.
 (iv) the effective date of the diploma :–––––––.
08.   (a) the receipt No. :––––––––––––.
   date of payment  of  Examination fees :–––––––.
   bank branch :––––––––––––. 
   amount Paid :––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt issued by the bank permanently 
on the top margin here.
(retaining a copy of the receipt will be useful)
        
09. Certificate of the Applicants :-
 i hereby certify that the information furnished by me 
in this application is true and accurate. i am aware that 
if any information furnished by me in this application 
is found to be false or inaccurate before i am selected, 
I am liable for disqualification before selection and for 
dismissal without compensation if such revelation is 
made after the appointment.
  further, i declare that i am subject to the rules 
and regulations imposed by the director General of 
the department of the technical Education and the 
training  with the regard to holding of this.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :- .......................................
10. Attestation  of the candidate's Signature :-
i certify that mr. / mrs. / ms. ............................................
.......................................... who forwards this applications is 
personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature, 
in my presence on ............................................. and, the 
receipt obtained by paying the prescribed examination fee 
is affixed here.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
full Name of the attester:––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
 (Affirm by Official Stamp).
11. Certificate of the Head of the Department (If the 
applicant is employed in the public service)
i certify that mr. / mrs. / ms. ............................................
.................................................. is employed at this ministry 
/ Department /Office and his/her service is satisfactory , and 
has paid the prescribed examination fees. i also certify that 
the particulars furnished above by him/her are true and if he 
/ she is selected for an appointment based on the results of 
this examination he/she can be / cannot be released from the 
present post.
date :––––––––––––.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department.
Full Name of the certifying officer :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(Office Stamp).
12-291

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2921
mINISTRy Of RuRAL ECONOmICS AffAIRS
Department of Animal Production and health 
REcRuitmENt to thE PoSt of LiVEStock 
dEVELoPmENt officER GRadE iii of thE SRi 
LaNka tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE – 2018
aPPLicatioNS are invited by the director General of 
the animal Production and health for the competitive 
Examination to recruit for the posts of Livestock 
Development Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological 
Service in the department of animal Production and helath.
02. examination.– the examination will be held in 
february, 2018 in kandy by the director General of animal 
Production and health. the right to postpone or cancel the 
examination shall be with the director General.
03. Conditions of the Service. – the recruitment to the 
post of Livestock development Officer Grade III of Sri 
Lanka technological Service will be subjected to the general 
conditions governing the appointments in the Public Service 
and the following conditions.
 (i) The selected officer is subjected to serve in 
any part of the island.
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable. the 
selected applicant should contribute to the 
Widows'/Widowers' and orphan' pension fund 
as stipulated by the government from time to 
time.
 (iii) The officer appointed under open competitive 
examination will be on probation for a period 
of 3 years. If an officer who is confirmed in 
a post in the Public Service is appointed, he 
will be on probation for a period of one year. 
The officers who are appointed by the open 
competitive examinations are required to pass 
the Efficiency bar examination I before they 
are confirmed in the posts.
 (iv) all the officers who have recruited for the 
public service should obtain the proficiency in 
an official language in addition to the official 
language medium in which they gained 
qualifications to enter the public service within 
05 years from the date of appointment.
 (v) The selected officer will be subjected to the 
orders of the Public Service commission, 
rules and regulations of the Establishment 
code, financial Regulations, terms and 
conditions issued by the Government from 
time to time and the  orders of the ministry 
and the department.
04. Salary Scale.– mN-3-2016- Livestock development 
Officer Grade III of the Sri Lanka Technological Service  
Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660-10x730-10x750- Rs. 57,550
(as per P. a circular No. 03/2016 monthly)
this post is entitled to the salary steps                                                                      
Rs. 31,040 -18x445- Rs. 39,050. 
The officer of the Grade III should pass the 1
st efficiency 
bar examination before the 3rd increment.
05. Age Limit :
 (a)  Should be not less than 18 years and not 
more than 30 years at the closing date of the 
application.
06. Educational & Vocational Qualifications :
applicant should have passed G.c.E. (ad. Level) 
examination in one and the same sitting in three 
Science/maths subjects including two subjects 
from chemistry, agriculture and biology ;
and
Passed G.c.E. (ordinary Level) examination in one 
sitting, in six subjects including Sinhala/t amil/
English Languages, Science, mathematics and 
another Subject with credit passes.
vocational Qualifications :
Should have obtained the two year Diploma certificate 
in animal husbandry from an institute recognized 
by the commission of tertiary and V ocational 
Education ;
or
Should have completed NVQ 6
th Standard of National 
V ocational Qualification relevant to the field of 
animal husbandry ;
or

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2922
Should have obtained other technical qualifications 
similar to the above mentioned qualifications 
in all respects recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission subsequently in 
consultation with the ministry of higher education 
and the institutes issuing above mentioned technical 
certificates (Should have obtained the certificate at 
the closing date of the applications).
Note.– Should have obtained qualifications on or before 
the closing date of the applications. the applications 
which are awaiting result will be rejected.
Physical Fitness.– Should be physically fit and bear and 
excellent moral character, the physical fitness should 
be proved by a medical certificates.
Other:
 (i) applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Should bear an excellent character
 (iii) only when the candidate has completed all the 
qualifications and the relevant age limit in all 
respects at the closing date of the applications it 
would be accepted his/her eligibility at sitting for 
the competitive examination of recruiting to the 
post
7. Method of Recruitment .– Recruitments will be made 
on the results of the written competitive examination and 
general interview. the candidates will be called for the 
interview based on the allocated vacancies and on the order 
of the aggregate marks obtained at the written examination.
Written examination :
this examination will be comprised with 02 papers.
Subjects Duration Maximum 
marks
Passed
marks
1. intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
2. General paper 
  (technical and sub-
ject related test
01 hour 100 40
08. examination :
 (i) the examination will be conducted in Sinhala/
tamil and English medium.
 (ii) candidates may answer in any language.
 (iii) Permission will not be given to change the 
Language medium applied at the Examination.
 (iv) the examination fee will be Rs. 400.
 (v) a  money order drawn in favour of the director 
General animal Production and health encashable 
at the post office Peradeniya should be affixed on 
the relevant cage in the application.
 (vi) Syllabus :
 (a) intelligence test :
  this question paper is designed to examine 
the applicant's Logical reasoning, analytical 
thinking and the ability to take decisions.
 (b) General Question Paper (Question paper in 
technology and subjects related)
 (i) the resources available for agricultural 
and animal husbandry activities of Sri 
Lanka, potentials, present situation and 
contribution towards the economy.
 (ii) animal production systems of Sri 
Lanka, quantity of production and 
marketing systems, Livestock farming 
patterns available in Sri Lanka, their 
location and the dissemination.
 (iii) Popular methods used for breeding 
purpose with regard to farm herd.
 (iv) Epidemics, disease control activities, 
collection of samples from sick animals 
and transporting of them.
 (v) combined farming systems and 
recycling methods.
 (vi) industries associated with animal 
husbandry processing of milk and 
meat and processing of animal feed.
 (vii) income and the expenditure accounting 
systems pertaining to animal production 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2923
process, reporting and auditing the 
farms, planning of farms.
 (viii) Using of Scientific information 
dissemination system and their 
productivity.
09. Method of Application :
 (i) application form should be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application 
attached herewith. application prepared on a-4 
size paper 8 1/2x12 (a4) using both sides of 
it should be forwarded under registered cover 
to reach the director General, department of 
animal Production and health P. o. box 13, 
Getambe, Peradeniya on or before 31.12.2017.
  the Words "competitive examination for 
recruitment to the post of Livestock development 
officer" should be written clearly on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope. applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected.
Note :
 (i) the applicants who are in the Public Service 
should forward their application through their 
head of the department/institutions.
 (ii) incomplete applications will be rejected. No 
allegation with regard to the application lost or 
delayed in the post will be accepted.
 (iii) No acknowledgment will be sent regarding the 
receipt of the application. if the candidates have 
not received their admission cards four days 
prior to the date of the examination it should 
be informed to the director General of animal 
Production and health immediately with 
following particulars.
 (i) full name of the applicant
 (ii) address
 (iii) date on which the application was 
posted, registered No. and post office.
10. Photostat copies of the following should be attached 
to the application form of the candidate :
 (i) Certificate of Birth
 (ii) Certificates with regard to the Educational/
vocational qualifications.
Identity of the Candidate.– Every candidate should prove 
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
Supervisor. the following documents are accepted for that 
purpose.
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
commissioner General of Registration of 
Persons.
 (ii) Valid Passport.
Submission of False Information.– if it reveals that a 
candidate has not possessed the required qualifications to sit 
for the examination, his or her candidature can be cancelled 
before or during the examination or after it or at any stage. 
if it reveals that a candidate has submitted false information 
knowingly he/she will be subject for dismissal.
the candidates should draw their attention and adhere 
to the general conditions of the service relevant for the 
appointment to the Public Service Stated in paragraph 
03 of this Gazette notification together with the rules and 
instructions for the candidates.
11. the director General, animal Production and health 
deserves himself the right to take a decision with regard to 
a problem arisen or the No. of candidates to be recruited: it 
will be the final decision.
 dr. R. m. 
ariyadasa,
 director General of department of 
 animal Production and health.
department of animal Productions and health,
Peradeniya,
15th November, 2017.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2924
speciMen application forM
Ministry of rural econoMic affairs
DeP ARTMeNT OF ANIMAL PRODuCTION AND 
heALTh
Recruitment to the post of Livestock Development Officer 
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Technological Service
the medium
applied for:
 (For office use only)
 (make the relevant number in the cage)
 Sinhala   - 2
 t amil    - 3
 English  - 4
01. Name :
  1.1 Name with initials in block capitals (Surname 
first) :––––––––––––.
   Example: Silva. b. a. 
  1.2 full Name in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
  1.3 N.i.c. No. :
02. address:
  2.1 Private address :––––––––––––.
  2.2 Official Address :––––––––––––.
  2.3 address to which the admission card should 
be sent :––––––––––––.
  2.4. contact Numbers :
   mobile  :––––––––––––.
   Residence  :––––––––––––.
03.  3.1 Sex (mark the relevant cage) :
   female
   male
  3.2 date of birth:
 
   y ear month date
  3.3 date as at the closing date of the application:
 
   y ear month date
  3.4 civil Status : (mark the relevant cage)
   married
   Single
04. Educational Qualifications:
  4.1 G.c.E. (a/L) : Examination
   y ear :––––––––––––. month  :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
  4.2 G.c.E. (o/L) : Examination
   y ear :––––––––––––. month  :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
 4.3 (a)  the institute from where the V ocational 
Qualifications obtained :–––––––––––.
  (b) the year in which the vocational 
Qualifications obtained  :–––––––––––.
05. the present occupation and the previous post held (if 
available only) :
Post Institute From To
06. the name of the post office to which the examination 
fee had been paid  :–––––––––––.
 money order No.  :–––––––––––.
the examination fee is Rs. 400. it should be written 
in favor of director General, animal Production and 
health.
 Paying branch: Peradeniya

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2925
07. i certify that the particulars given in this application are 
true and correct. i am also aware that if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, i 
am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be 
dismissed without any compensation  if such detection 
is made after selection.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date  :––––––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers in the Public Service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss …………… 
….. is serving in this department as a ………………… 
……. and the foregoing particulars were checked by me 
and found to be correct. he/She could/could not be released 
from the present post held by him/her if selected for the 
above post.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  head of the department.
  (Official seal should be placed)
designation  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
date  :––––––––––––.
12-07
––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of PRImARy INDuSTRIES
Department of Export Agriculture
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN  foR 
REcRuitmENt to thE PoStS of faRm 
maNaGER, ExtENSioN officER aNd 
tEchNoLoGicaL officER of cLaSS iii of 
SRi LaNka tEchNoLoGicaL SERVicE of 
dEPaRtmENt of ExPoRt 
aGRicuLtuRE - 2017/(2018)
aPPLicatioNS are hereby invited from the citizens of 
Sri Lanka to fill the below  mentioned vacancies in the post 
of Farm Manager, Extension Officer and Technological 
Officer of Class III of Sri Lanka Technological Service in 
the department of Export agriculture.
02. the applicants should not be less than 18 years and 
more than 30 years of age. the requirements related to the 
age are deemed to have met only if the applicants,  dates of 
birth fall on or before 08.01.2000 and on or after 08.01.1988.
03. this post is entitled to the monthly salary scale of 
Rs. 31,040-10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730- 10 x 750 -                   
Rs. 57,550 as per mN-3-2016 as at 01.01.2020. actions will 
be taken to pay salaries as per administration circular No. 
03/2016.
04. this is a Permanent and pensionable post. you will 
be subject to policy decisions made by the government on 
this pension scheme in the future. further, you must make 
contribution to the Widow/W idower and orphan's Pension 
Scheme. contribution to this fund must be made by you as 
may be ordered by the Government from time to time.
05. It is essential that the applicants have fulfilled 
all the basic educational qualifications and professional 
qualifications mentioned below, by the closing date for 
receiving applications.
Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed the 
G. c. E. (o/L) exmination in 06 subjects with credits for 
Sinhala/tamil/English Languages, Science, methematics 
and any other subject at one sitting.
and
Should have passed the G. c. E. (a/L) examination in one 
sitting in three (03) subjects including any two (2) subjects 
from bio Science, agriculture, chemistry, Physics, agri-
technology, bio-technology and Science for technology.
Professional Qualifications :
Having one of the following diploma certificates related 
to the field of agriculture :–
 1. the two year diploma in agriculture awarded 
by an institute approved by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission.
 2. the higher National diploma in technology 
related to the field of agriculture awarded by the 
ministry of higher Education.
 3. the National diploma in technology related to 
the field of agriculture awarded by the Hardy 
advanced technological institute, ampara.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2926
 4. The Diploma related to the field of agriculture 
awarded by the National apprentice and 
industrial training authority.
 5. The Diploma related to the field  of agriculture 
awarded by the open university of Sri Lanka.
 6. Completion of National V ocational Qualification 
(NVQ) Level 6 related to the field of agriculture.
 7. the two - year diploma in agriculture awarded 
by the department of agriculture.
06. Mode of Applying :
 (a) application forms should be duly prepared using 
both sides of an a4 (21cm x 29cm) sized sheet 
including Sections 01 to 07 on the first page 
while the rest of the pages should carry the other 
passages respectively in accordance with the 
Specimen application form appended to this 
Gazette notification. Applications must be filled 
by the candidate himself/herself in clear hand 
writing in the medium language applicant is 
appearing for the examination.
 (b) one candidate is able to apply for one post or 
several posts. it is not required to forward separate 
applications. the preferential order of the posts 
applying for must be clearly indicated on the 
applications with the code numbers provided 
below. in addition, it is not possible to alter the 
preferential order of posts applied, later.
Sequential 
Number
Post Code 
Number
1 farm manager 001
2 Extension Officer 002
3 Technological  officer 003
example :
an applicant who wishes to apply for the post of 
Extension Officer as his 1st Preference, the post of 
Technological Officer as his 2nd preference and the 
post of farm manager as his 3rd preference, should 
indicate the code numbers relevant to the posts applied 
under the column "code Numbers" of the table No. 02 
on the application, in the following manner.
Sequential 
Number
Priority of 
preferences
Post Code 
Number
1 1st preference Extension 
Officer
002
2 2nd Preference technological 
Officer
003
3 3rd Preference farm manager 001
 (c) both Sinhala and tamil medium applications 
should have the name of examination written in the 
title in English.
 (d) Duly filled applications should be forwarded 
under  registered post to ''the commissioner of 
the Examinations, organization and foreign 
Examinations branch. the department of 
Examinations, Po box 1503, colombo" on 
or before 08th January 2018. the name of the 
examination must be clearly written on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application.
 (e) the receipt obtained in the applicant's name, after 
paying the examination fee related to the number of 
the posts indicated below, in a manner it could be 
credited to state revenue under the Revenue head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner of Examinations, 
must be firmly affixed on its one margin on the 
application. it may be useful to retain a photo copy 
of the receipt. It is also kindly notified that any fee, 
other than the examination fee, will not be charged. 
While money orders or stamps are not entertained 
in respect of the examinations, the fee paid for the 
examination will not be reimbursed or transferred 
for other examinations under any consequence.
No. of posts applied for examination 
fee
for the post of farm manager 
and/or Extension Officer
Rs. 600
for the post of technological 
Officer
Rs. 600
for the post of farm manager 
and/or Extension Officer and 
Technological Officer
Rs. 900 
 (f)  applications that are not in conformity with the 
Specimen application form included in this 
notification, or not complete in every respect, 
applications received after the closing date will be 
rejected without  prior notice and the department 
will not be liable for the loss of applications 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2927
in the post or for any postal delays. therefore, 
you are advised to scrutinize before forwarding 
the application whether your application is 
in conformity with the specimen application 
form given in the examination notice, whether 
the application has been accurately completed 
including all the particulars and whether the 
prescribed examination fee has been  paid and the 
particulars  in that regard have been included in the 
application and the receipt has been affixed on the 
application, further it may be advisable to retain 
with you a copy each of the completed application 
and the receipt concerning the payment of the 
examination fee.
 (g) the Signature of the applicant must have been 
attested both on the application and the admission 
card for the  examination. a person applying for 
the examination through a certain institute, must 
get his/her signature attested by the respective head 
of the department or by an officer authorized by 
the head of the department, and the other applicants 
must get their signatures attested by a principal 
of a government school, the Grama Niladhari 
of the relevant division a justice of the Peace, a 
commissioner of oath, a lawyer, a Public Notary, a 
commissioned officer of the tri-forces or an officer 
in the Public or provincial public service or in a 
permanent staff grade post. receiving an annual 
consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360.
 (h)  the candidates who are already in Public service 
should forward their applications through the head 
of the department.
Penalty for fraudulent particulars.– the application form 
must be carefully filled providing the accurate particulars. 
if applicant's ineligibility is disclosed under the rules and 
regulations of this examination, his/her candidature can 
be cancelled before the examination, while conducting the 
examination, after the exam or at any occasion.
07. examination Procedure :
 (a) under the presumption that only the candidates 
who possess the qualifications mentioned in the 
Gazette have applied, admissions will be issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations 
to the candidate who are within the age limits 
mentioned in the notification and have forwarded 
their applications forms before the closing date 
for receiving application. the candidate should 
produce the admission containing the attested 
signature to the Supervisor of the examination 
hall prescribed to him/her on the very first day he 
appears for the exam. any candidate who fails to 
produce the admission card will not be allowed 
to sit for the examination.
 (b) this examination will be held in march 2018 
in  colombo only. the applicants who do not 
receive their admissions 05 days prior to the 
date of examination, must enquire without delay 
form the organization and foreign Examination 
branch of the department of Examinations, 
Pelawatta, battaramulla, producing the 
particulars listed below.
 (c) immediately after the issuance of admissions 
to the candidates, a press notification will be 
published by the department of Examination 
notifying it, if there are applicants who have 
not received their admissions even 2 or 3days 
after the publishing of the notification, it must 
be informed to the department of Examinations 
as mentioned in it. in such as instance, the 
full name of the candidate, the address, the 
National identity card Number and the name 
of examination must be mentioned and it is 
important to have in your hand the copies of 
the application, receipt for the payment of the 
examination fee the and receipt for the registered 
post. With regard to a candidate residing away 
from Colombo, it may be efficient to make an  
inquiry by sending a letter of request mentioning 
a fax number and the particulars given below in 
order to receive a copy of the admission by fax. it 
may be useful to keep the following information.
 (i) Name of examination
 (ii) full name of candidate
 (iii) Date, Post office and number of 
registration of the application. 
 (iv) Receipt number, date and the post office 
of payment of examination fee.
 (d) t ravel or any other expenses incurred by the 
candidate in order to appear for the examination 
will not be reimbursed.
 (e) Identity.–  the candidate should prove his/her 
identity in a manner satisfactory to the Supervisor 
in respect of all the subjects he/she sits for. for 
this purpose.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons, or;
 (ii) a  Valid Passport will be accepted.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2928
 the candidates who fail to produce documents to prove their identity will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
 (f) Syllabus :
  One written examination will be held for both Farm Manager and Extension Officer Posts.
Subject 
Number
Subject Time 
hours
Maximum Mark Pass Mark Relevant Post
01 intelligence test 1 100 40% for all the Posts
02 common test - 1 (technological 
and Subject Related common 
test)
3 100 40% for the posts of farm 
manager and Extension 
Officer
03 common test - ii (technological 
and Subject Related common 
test)
3 100 40% for the post of 
Technological Officer
 (i) Intelligence Test (relevant to all posts)
  the test consits of questions to determine the candidates ability of logical reasoning, analytical thinking and 
decision making. this test consits 50 multiple choice and short answer type questions and all the questions must be 
answered by the candidates.
 (ii) Common Test I (Technological and Subject Related Common Test) : (Relevant to the posts of farm manager 
and Extension Officer)
 *  General agriculture and principles.
 *  crop production and principles, agronomical matters.
 *  Soil, fertilizer, plant nutrition and environmental impacts.
 *  Plant propagation methods
 *  diseases and agents of pests, characteristics and damages.
 *  agricultural principles, past present and future potentials.
 *  botanical matters, climatic factors, impact of fertilizer and nutrition, diseases and pest and post - harvest 
technology related to Export agricultural crops such as pepper, cinnamon, cocoa, cardamom cloves, nutmeg, 
betel, arecanut, Vanilla and other crops
 *  Sale of Export crops and export potentials.
 * organic farming
 *  management of farm, production of plants and planting material, management of nurseries and organic farming.
 *  methods of agricultural extension and the science of extension.
 (iii) Common Test 11 (Technological and Subject Related Common Test) : (Relevant to the post of Technological 
Officer)
  Principles of agriculture
  * climatic zons of Sri Lanka and their impact on crop production.
  * types of soil conservation, plant nutrition and conservation of water.
  * Identification of pests, classification and control.
  * Plant propagation, management of nurseries and tissue culture.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2929
 *  agriculture and environment
 *  Horticulture, field crop cultivation, mixed crop cultivation and agri forest cultivation.
 *  Post - harvest technology.
 *  Definition of Export Agricultural Crops, propagation, field establishment, maintenance. diseases, control 
of pests and processing of harvest.
 *  management of farms and planning.
 *  contribution of public and private institutes in the development of agriculture in Sri Lanka.
 *  Identification of laboratory  equipment, use, cleaning and the safe use of chemicals and storage.
 (f) the examination will be held in Sinhala, English and tamil and media and the candidates who sit for the 
exam should appear for all the subjects of the examination in one medium language only. it is not allowed to 
change the medium of examination later.
 08. Conditions of employment :
 (i) the candidates selected are bound to serve in any area of the island.
 (ii) The recruited officers will be subject to a probationary service period of 03 years.
(09) Mode of Recruitment.– A number of candidates equivalent to the number of vacancies to be filled will be 
called for the interview on the merit order of the total marks obtained by the candidates who obtained 40% or more marks 
for every question  paper prescribed for the written examination. While awarding of marks will not be done at the interview, 
the recruitment will be done on the order of merit of the total marks obtained at the examination by the candidates who 
have verified their qualifications. A results sheet, containin g the marks obtained by the candidates who appeared for the 
examination for each paper and the total marks, will be issued to all the candidates who appeared for the examination by 
the commissioner General of  Examinations after a notice has been issued by the director General of Export agriculture to 
release the results of the other candidates, following the finalization of all the recruitments.
(10) issuance of  admissions to appear for the examination will not be considered as an acceptance that  the candidate 
is qualified for appering for the examination or for the post. The candidature will be cancelled it it will be revealed that the  
candidate lacks necessary qualifications on the occasion the candidates are called for an interview and their qualifications 
are checked according to the Gazette notification.
(11) the decision with regard to any matter not mentioned here in will be taken by the appointing authority. all 
the candidates are obliged to act according to the examination rules and regulations mentioned in the Gazette notification.
(12) the candidates  who have paid the relevant examination fee and forwarded the applications on or before 
the closing date will be allowed to sit for the competitive examination on the presumption that only those who have the 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette  notification have applied. The candidates are subject to the rules  and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations with regard to holding of the examination. in the events of violation 
of these rules and  regulations, she or he will have to be subject to a penalty imposed by the commissioner General of the 
Examinations.
(13) If any inconsistency exists among the texts of this notifications published  in Sinhala, Tamil and  English, the 
Sinhala Medium Notification shall prevail.
 dr. a. P. 
Heenkenda,
 director General of Export agriculture.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2930
(For office use only)
speciMen application forM
application for tHe coMpetitive exaMination for recruitMent to post of farM Manager, extension officer and 
tecHnological officer of class iii of sri lanka tecHnological service for departMent of export agriculture - 2017
01. medium applied : Sinhala  - 2
 tamil  - 3
 English  - 4  (Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Post/Posts applied   :–––––––––––.
 the post or posts applied must be indicated in the order of preference. Even though, one post is applied, that post must 
be mentioned.
Sequential 
Number
Order of presence Post Code Number
1 1st preference
2 2nd preference
3 3rd preference
 
03. Name :-
  3.1 Name in full (in English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
   (Example : hERath  mudiyaNSELaGE  SamaN  kumaRa  GuNaWaRdhaNa)
  3.2 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
   (Surname followed by the initials of the other names in English capital letters)
   (Example : Gunawardhana h. m. S. k.)
04. Permanent address :
 (in capital English Letters)
  4.1 address to which admission card should be posted :–––––––––––.
   (in capital English Letters)
  4.2 contact Number (if available) :-  mobile 
       Landline  
 
05. National identity card No. :
 
06. Gender :  female 1  male - 0
       (write the relevant number in the cage)
 
07. marital Status :
 married - 2 unmarried -1 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
 
08.  8.1 date of birth : y ear month date
  8.2 age as at the closing
   date of applications (2018.01.08) : y ears months  days

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2931
any information furnished by me in this application is found 
to be false or inaccurate before i am selected. i am aware 
that I am liable for disqualification before selection and for 
dismissal  without compensation if such revelation is made 
after the appointment.
further, i declare that i am subject to the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of the 
Examinations with the regard to holding of this examination.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
12. attestation of the candidate's Signature :
i, certify that mr./mrs./ms…................. who forwards 
this applications is personally known to me and he/she 
placed his/her signature, in my presence on…............... and, 
the receipt obtained by paying the prescribed  examination 
fee is affixed here.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Affirm by Official Stamp)
13. Certificate of the Head of the Department (if the 
applicant is employed in the Public Service) :
i, certify that mr./mrs./ms…................. is employed 
at this Ministry/Department /Office and his/her  service is 
satisfactory, and has paid the prescribed examination fees. i 
also certify that the particulars furnished above by him/her 
are true and if he/she is selected for an appointment based 
on the results of this examination he/she can be/cannot be 
released from the present post.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department.
date :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the certifying officer :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Office Stamp).
12-292
09. Educational Qualifications :
  (a) G. c. E. (o/L) :
   y ear & month :–––––––––––.
   index Number :–––––––––––.
   Language medium :–––––––––––.
 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
   (b) G.c.E. (a/L) :-
    y ear & month :–––––––––––––.
    index Number :–––––––––––––.
    Language medium :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade 
1
2
3
4
   (c)  
Name of Diploma 
and Institute
Year of passing the 
examination
Index 
Number
10.  (a)
  
No : of the receipt for the 
payment of examination fee 
 
date
Post office or sub post office
amount Paid
Affix the receipt for the payment of examination fee 
firmly on one margin here.
(retaining a copy of the receipt will be useful)
11.  Certificate of the Applicant :-
i, hereby certify that the information furnished by me 
in this application is true and accurate. i am aware that if 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2932
mINISTRy  Of  hEALTh,  NuTRITION  AND  INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
 
Enrolment of Graduates for the Orientation and Coordination Courses of the Service of Professions 
Supplementary to medicine – 2017
aPPLicatioNS are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens who possess a degree obtained from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission, for the recruitment, to the following orientation and coordination courses for the 
service of Professions Supplementary to medicine of ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine.
2. Academic and other qualifications relevant to the post :
Code No. Orientation and Coordination Course Degree required to be completed 
1 medical Laboratory technologist b.Sc. mLS
2 Pharmacist b. Pharm
b.Sc. Pharmacy
3 Physiotherapist b. Sc. Physiotherapy
4 Radiographer b. Sc. Radiotherapy
b. Sc. Radiography
3. Other General Qualifications :
(a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age by 08.01.2018.
(b) the effective date of the degree should be a date prior to the closing date of applications.
(c) Should be in a good state of mental and Physical health
4. Method of application :
(a) the application should be prepared using a4 size papers in accordance with the specimen form of application 
appended to this notification. (Numbers from 01 to 09 of the application should appear on the first page of the 
paper and numbers from 10 to 13 should appear on the other side of the paper).
(b) the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 300 to the credit of the account of "director General of health Services – 
collection of Exam fees" Number 7041318 of the bank of ceylon, thaprobane branch; Should be attached 
firmly, on the place where it is mentioned "Receipt" in the application. (Please keep a copy of the receipt with 
you)
(c) candidate's signature should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/Justice of the peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/an Attorney at Law/Notary Public/authorized officer in tri forces/an officer who 
holds a Gazetted post in the police service or public officer who holds a permanent and pensionable post in 
staff grade post in Public Service or Provincial Public Service and obtain a consolidated salary more than Rs. 
393,684 per annum.
(d) the words "Enrolment of Graduates as trainees for the training of the Service of Professions Supplementary 
to medicine – 2017" and relevant degree and academic year should be mentioned on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope of size 9" x 4" in which the duly completed application should be enclosed and it should 
be sent to reach the director (administration) 02, ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine 
"Suwasiripaya", 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, colombo 10 under registered post on 
or before 08.01.2018.
5. Employees in Public or Semi – Government institutions should submit their applications through the respective 
head of the department. the applicants should note that, this is an external recruitment and they have  no right of 
reversion to the current post either he/she will be able or not able to complete the training successfully.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2933
6. Receipt of applications will not be informed and applications which will be received after the closing date will be 
rejected. the applications which are not complying to the instructions and the relevant specimen form given in this 
notification, will be rejected without any notice.
7. Eligible persons will be selected to each training course according to the merit list prepared on the basis of the 
effective date of the degree and GP a value; relevant to each training course. the priority will be given to the 
graduates those who have completed the degree after 25.06.2016 which was the closing date of previous Gazette 
notification regarding enrolment of these graduates.
8. if the number of applicants is higher than the number of existing vacancies, a written examination, which consists 
of a question paper on General knowledge and aptitude of 01 hour, will be held to select for enrolment for the 
orientation and coordination course and a number equal to the number of existing vacancies will be enrolled for 
the training on the merit of marks obtained at the examination. at the interview, applicants should produce the 
original documents and certified copies of the following.
(a) Birth Certificate.
(b) Original of the Degree Certificate (A certified copy should also be sent with the application)
(c) Original Certificates of the results of the G.C.E. (O/L) and G. C. E. A/L Examinations.
(d) National identity card or valid passport or valid driving license.
(e) A certificate issued by Grama Niladari and counter signed by Divisional Secretary to confirm the residence 
(Certificate of the Grama Niladari)
9. The training procedure :
Code No. Orientation and Coordination course Duration of the course Medium in which the course 
should be followed
1 medical Laboratory technologist 6 months English
2 Pharmacist 6 months English
3 Physiotherapist 6 months English
4 Radiographer 6 months English
 (i) applicants selected from the interview will be attached to training schools to follow the relevant orientation 
and coordination course. the courses should be followed in the medium which is mentioned against each 
course.
 (ii) t rainees admitted to the training schools will be subject to the rules and regulations prevail in the training 
schools and the orders imposed by the ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine from time 
to time.
 (iii) the trainees, who will not complete the training successfully at the end of the training period or whose 
work and conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to adhere to the conditions of the training school, may 
be terminated without compensation at any time.
 (iv) an allowance will be paid to the trainees during the training period in terms of the Provisions of public 
administration circular 03/2016.
 (v) at the time you are admitted to the training school, you should enter in to an agreement and bond of surety 
with the director General of health Services; that you will complete the training successfully, that you 
will not leave the training programme and if you will be granted an appointment after completing the said 
entire training, that you will serve in the relevant post at least for a period of 05 years, in case you leave or 
abandon the training during the training period or your training is terminated as per the above Section iii 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2934
or you fail to serve in the relevant post for a period of 05 years in the relevant post after appointment, the 
allowance paid to you during the training period, expenses incurred by the Government and the amount of 
the surety bond should be refunded to the ministry of health Nutrition and indigenous medicine by you. 
if not, legal action will be instituted in terms of the agreement to recover that amount.
10. Terms of engagement :
 at the end of the training it will be decided to grant/not to grant permanent appointments considering the number 
of vacancies existing for the time being. accordingly, if the ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, 
decides to grant permanent appointment in the relevant post, action will be taken to appint the candidates to the 
class iii of the relevant post in terms of the conditions in the scheme of recruitment relevant to the course concerned. 
in terms of Public administration circular 03/2016, the salary scale Rs. 32,080-445x10-660x11-730x10-750x10- 
Rs. 58,590 of mt-6-2016 is applicable to the posts given above under the code numbers 1,2,3,4 of the service of 
professions Supplementary to medicine and payments are made in terms of the provisions of Public administration 
circular 03/2016.
11. The particulars of education and other qualifications in the application should be filled carefully and accurately. If 
the above mentioned certificates are found to be counterfeit after recruitment to the training or after appointment, 
action will be taken to refer to the criminal investigation department for legal action, and also to cancel the 
appointment and to dismiss from the training / post, and to enter his/her name in the black list of those who are not 
permitted to be re-employed in the Public Service after taking legal action against him/her. in addition, action will 
be taken to recover the allowance paid to him/her during the training period, expenses incurred by the Government, 
and the amount of agreement and Surety bond.
12. Selected applicants should attend for a medical examination during the first month of the training to obtain a 
certification that he/she is physically and mentally fit to follow the course and serve in any part of the Island and if 
an applicant is found to be unfit at the medical examination he/she will be disqualified for the training.
13. All persons selected as above will be subject to all laws and regulations relevant to the public officers, the provisions 
of the Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the ministry of 
health, Nutrition  and indigenous medicine, financial Regulations and other regulations and rules and orders that 
may be imposed by the Government from time to time.
14. this ministry is not bound to provide residential facilities in the training schools for the applicants recruited for the 
training. if such facilities are provided, rent assessed for a room, water and electricity bills will be charged.
15. if any problem arises regarding enrolment to the taining or any matter covered or uncovered by this Gazette 
notification, the decision of the secretary of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine will be final. 
in case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and English texts, the text in Sinhala will prevail.
 
Janaka sugatHadasa,
 Secretary,
 ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine.
ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo-10,
22nd November, 2017.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2935
SPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
enrolMent of graduates for orientation and coordination training courses of tHe service of professions 
suppleMentary to Medicine
Read the Gazette notification carefully before filling the application
• Course applying for :–––––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/tamil)
• Course applying for :–––––––––––––––.
(in English)
01.   (a) Name with initials :–––––––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals) :- ex: a. b. c. SiLVa
   (b) Name in full (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––––.
   (c) Name in full (Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :           (attach a copy)
03. Postal address:- in Sinhala/tamil in English
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
04.   (a)  Permanent address:- in Sinhala/t amil in English
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
     …………………………………… ……………………………..
   (b)  telephone No. :  mobile     fixed 
   (c)  district of Residence: in Sinhala/tamil   :–––––––––––––––.  in English  :–––––––––––––––.
   (d)  are you a permanent resident in this district: yes/No  :–––––––––––––––.
   (e)  if "yes", how long  :–––––––––––––––.
05. date of birth: y ear  :–––––––––––––––.   month  :–––––––––––––––.  date  :–––––––––––––––.
 age as at 08.01.2018……………y ears  :–––––––––––––––.  months  :–––––––––––––.  days  :–––––––––––––.
06. Gender: female  male   (mark a ‘     ’ in the relevant cage)
07. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka  yes  No  (mark a ‘  ’ in the relevant cage)
08. civil Status: married  Single
09. Educational Qualifications :
Degree Grade Grade Point Average (GP A) and 
effective date of the degree
university Academic Year
code Number relevant 
to the training course 
(according to the Gazette 
Notification)

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2936
10. have you ever been convicted for any offense in a court of law? y es  No
 (mark in the relevant cage)
 if so, give particulars :–––––––––––––––.
11. Certification of the applicant :
 (a) i certify that i have carefully studied and understood the Gazette notification and filled the application subject 
to all the conditions mentioned therein, and i do not take part in any other full time course and the particulars 
furnished by me in the application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in the application are found to be false i am liable 
to be disqualified for the training and if so found after appointment I am liable to be dismissed.
 (c) and, i am aware that this is an external recruitment and i have no right of reversion to the current post even if i 
will be/will not be able to complete the training successfully.
Affix the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 300 to the credit of the Account of "Director General of 
health Services – collection of Exam fees" Number  7041318 of the bank of ceylon, thaprobane branch.
     ––––––––––––––,
      Signature of the applicant.
date  :–––––––––––––––.
12.  attestation of the applicant's Signature :
 i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss ………………………………… who is submitting this application is personally 
known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ………………………………………..
  ––––––––––––––, 
  Signature of the attester.
date  :–––––––––––––––.
full Name of the attester  :–––––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––––––.  Official Frank of the Attester
13. Certification of the Head of the Department if the applicant is in Public Service/Provincial Public Service (Delete  
irrelevant words) :
 i. i certify that the above applicant mr./mrs./miss …………………………….. holds the post of …………………. 
in this department.
 ii. i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in the above application are true and he/she can/cannot be released 
if he/she is selected to the post.
 iii. i hereby state that i have explained him/her that this is an external recruitment and he/she has no right of 
reversion to the current post after completing successfully or without completing the relevant training.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of the department.date  :–––––––––––––––.
Name of the head of the deparment  :–––––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––––.
Address  :–––––––––––––––. Official Frank of the Head of Department.
12-216
    

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2937
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'12'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.12.2017
2938
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
thE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 DECEmbER 08.12.2017 friday — 24.11.2017 friday 12 noon
  15.12.2017 friday –– 30.11.2017 thursday 12 noon
  22.12.2017 friday –– 08.12.2017 friday 12 noon
  29.12.2017 friday –– 15.12.2017 friday 12 noon
2018
 JANuAR y 05.01.2018 friday — 22.12.2017 friday 12 noon
  12.01.2018 friday –– 29.12.2017 friday 12 noon
  19.01.2018 friday –– 05.01.2018 friday 12 noon
  26.01.2018 friday –– 12.01.2018 friday 12 noon
 fEbRuAR y 02.02.2018 friday — 19.01.2018 friday 12 noon
  09.02.2018 friday –– 26.01.2018 friday 12 noon
  16.02.2018 friday –– 02.02.2018 friday 12 noon
  23.02.2018 friday –– 09.02.2018 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2017.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.