

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
ENGINEERING COUNCIL, SRI LANKA
ACT,  No. 4 OF 2017
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 9th March, 2017]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 20.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 10, 2017

<!-- page 2 -->

1Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
[Certified on 9th March, 2017]
L.D.—O. 35/2011
A
N ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE  ENGINEERING
COUNCIL,  SRI  LANKA WHICH SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
MAINTENANCE OF PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS AND CONDUCT OF
ENGINEERING PRACTITIONERS; REGISTRATION OF DIFFERENT CATEGORIES
OF ENGINEERING PRACTITIONERS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Engineering Council,
Sri Lanka Act, No. 4 of  2017.
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ENGINEERING COUNCIL, SRI LANKA
2. (1) There shall be established a Council which shall
be known as the Engineering Council, Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Council”).
(2) The Council shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have a perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
that name.
3. The Council shall consist of the following:-
(a) four ex-officio members, namely-
(i) three Deans of the Faculties of Engineering
or their representatives not below the rank
of a Professor, nominated by each
University and appointed by the
University Grants Commission established
under the Universities Act,  No. 16 of 1978;
Short title.
Establishment of
the Engineering
Council,
Sri Lanka.
Constitution of
the Council.

<!-- page 3 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
2
(ii) D irector - General of Tertiary and
Vocational Education Commission
established under the Tertiary and
Vocational Education Commission  Act,
No. 20  of 1990 or his representative;
(b) thirteen members appointed by the Minister
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed
members”)  in following manner:-
(i) seven Chartered Engineers representing
different engineering disciplines in
rotation for every two years, nominated
by the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka
established by the Institution of Engineers,
Sri Lanka Act, No. 17 of 1968;
(ii) four members representing different
engineering disciplines in rotation for
every two years, nominated by the
Institution of Incorporated Engineers of
Sri Lanka  established by  the   Institution
of Incorporated Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 64 of 1992;
(iii) one Chartered Engineer nominated by the
Sri Lanka Engineering Service; and
(iv) one representative from the Engineering
Technicians nominated by the Tertiary and
Vocational Education Commission
established under the Tertiary and
Vocational Education Act, No. 20 of 1990.
4. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of the Chartered
Engineers from among the appointed members to be the
Chairman of the Council.
(2) The Chairman shall not engage in any paid
employment outside the duties of his office, without the
approval of the Minister.
Chairman of the
Council.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(3) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman
by letter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall
be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the
Minister.
(4) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove the
Chairman from the office of Chairman.
(5) Subject to the provisions of subsections (3) and (4)
the term of office of the Chairman shall be the period of his
membership of the Council.
(6) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to perform
the duties of the office due to ill health, other infirmity,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint any other  Chartered Engineer from among the
appointed members to act as the Chairman in addition to his
normal duties as an appointed member.
5. (1) The Minister shall, prior to appointing a person
as a member of the  Council , satisfy himself that such person
has no financial or other interest in the affairs of Council, as
is likely to affect prejudicially, the discharging of his
functions as a member of the Council.
(2) The Minister shall also satisfy himself, from time to
time, that no member of the Council  has since being
appointed acquired any such interest.
(3) (a) a member of the  Council  who is in anyway,
directly or indirectly, interested in any contract
made or proposed to be made by the Council
shall disclose the nature of his interest at a meeting
of the Council; and
(b) such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes
of the  Council and the member shall not
participate in any deliberation or decision of the
Council with regard to that contract.
 (4) For the purposes of this section “a member of the
Council” includes the Chairman, an appointed member and
an Ex-officio member.
Financial interest
of the members.

<!-- page 5 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
4
6. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the  Council, if such person–
(a) is or becomes a Member of Parliament, any
Provincial Council or of any Local Authority;
(b) is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(c) directly or indirectly holds or enjoys any right or
benefit under any contract made by or on behalf of
the  Council;
(d) has any financial or other interest as is likely to
affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member  of the Council;
(e) absents himself from three consecutive meetings of
the  Council  without obtaining prior approval from
the  Council;
(f) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country, found or declared to be of unsound mind;
(g) is a person who having been declared as insolvent
or bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or
in any other country, is an undischarged insolvent
or bankrupt; or
(h) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other
country.
7. Every ex-officio member of the Council shall hold
office as long as such officer holds office by virtue of which
such officer has been appointed to the  Council.
8. (1) Every appointed member of  the  Council  shall,
unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation, or
removal, hold office for a period of two years, and shall be
eligible for re-appointment, unless removed on disciplinary
grounds.
Disqualifications
to be a member.
Ex-officio
members.
Provisions
relating to
appointed
members.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove any
appointed member from office.
(3) Any appointed member may resign from office at any
time by letter addressed in that behalf to the Minister and
such resignation shall take effect upon it being accepted by
the Minister.
(4) (a) In the event of the death, resignation or removal
from office of any appointed member, the Minister may
having regard to the provisions of this Act in relation to the
appointment of that particular appointed member,  appoint
another person to act in his place.
(b) The Minister shall appoint a member for the purposes
of paragraph (a) within one month occurrence of the vacancy.
(c) The member appointed under paragraph (a) shall hold
office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.
 (5) Where any appointed member is temporarily unable
to perform the duties of the office due to ill health or absence
from Sri Lanka or for any other reason, the Minister may
having regard to the provisions of section 3( b) appoint
another person to act in his place.
(6) Subject to the preceding provisions an appointed
member may continue to hold office, after lapse of the period
of two years referred to in subsection (1), until he is
reappointed or a new member is appointed by the Minister.
9. (1) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of
the Council.  Where the Chairman is absent, the members
present shall elect a Chairman for that meeting from among
themselves.
(2) (a) All matters for decision by the  Council  shall be
dealt with at a meeting of the  Council  and shall be determined
by the majority of the members present and voting.
Meetings of the
Council.

<!-- page 7 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
6
(b) In the event of an equality of votes on any question
considered at a meeting the Chairman of that meeting shall
have a casting vote in addition to his original vote.
(c) All decisions of the Council supported by reasons,
shall be in writing and the seal of the Council affixed thereto.
(3) Any member of the Council may by written notice,
request the Chairman to call a meeting and the Chairman
shall not otherwise than for reasons assigned refuse to do so.
(4) No act, decision or proceeding of the Council, shall
be deemed to be invalidated by reason only of the existence
of any vacancy of the Council or any defect in the
appointment of any member thereof.
(5) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be
nine members.
(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the Council may regulate the procedure in regard to the
meetings of the Council and the transaction of business at
such meeting.
10. (1) The seal of the Council  shall be as determined
by the Council.
(2) The seal of the  Council –
(a) may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the  Council;
(b) shall be in the custody of such person or persons
as the  Council  may, determine;
(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document without the sanction of the  Council
and except in the presence of two members of
the Council, both of whom shall sign the
instrument or document in token of their
presence.
The Seal.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(3) The Council shall maintain a register of documents to
which the seal of the Council  has been affixed.
11. The members of the Council may be paid such
remuneration for attendance at meetings of the Council, as
may be determined by the Minister with the concurrence of
the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.
PART  II
P
OWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COUNCIL
12. The Council shall be charged with the function of
registering engineering practitioners holding such
qualifications as set out in the Schedule A hereto, and also-
(a) accept, approve or reject any application submitted
for  registration under this Act;
(b) cancel  any registration granted by the Council;
(c) keep, maintain and publish from time to time the
list of the engineering practitioners registered under
this Act;
(d) hold  inquires on any matter relating to the
professional misconduct of the   engineering
practitioners;
(e) determine the remuneration payable to the staff of
the  Council; and
(f) make representations to the Government and
relevant bodies on matters relating the practice of
engineering profession  in Sri Lanka .
13. The  Council  shall have the power to–
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of,
any movable or immovable property;
Remuneration
for attending
meetings of the
Council.
Functions of the
Council.
Powers of the
Council.

<!-- page 9 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
8
(b) borrow, with or without security, moneys, on
such terms and conditions as may be  imposed
in that behalf, by the Minister to whom the
subject of Finance has been assigned for  the
purpose of discharging the  functions of the
Council;
(c) accept gifts, grants or donations, whether in cash
or otherwise, except and to apply them for
discharging its functions;
(d) determine the fees payable in respect of
registration by rules made in that behalf;
(e) determine the terms and conditions of
registration of engineering practitioners;
(f) determine the form and manner of issuing of
certificate of registration, by rules made in that
behalf;
(g) maintain  registers of the engineering
practitioners;
(h)  prepare a Code of Professional Conduct for the
engineering practitioners;
(i) determine the procedure for the purpose of
carrying  out  disciplinary inquiries in respect of
professional  misconduct of  the engineering
practitioners; and
(j) appoint, employ, transfer, dismiss and exercise
disciplinary control against officers and
employees of the  Council   and to prescribe
their terms and conditions of services.
PART III
R
EGISTRATION AS ENGINEERING PRACTITIONERS
14. (1) No engineering practitioner shall engage in the
practice of engineering profession unless such engineering
practitioner is registered under section 15 or 18:
Engineering
practitioners to
register under
this Act.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
Provided however, that any engineering practitioner
who is engaged in the practice of engineering profession on
the date of commencement of this Act shall, within six
months from the date of commencement of this Act, register
himself under section 15.
(2) Any engineering practitioner who contravenes the
provisions of subsection (1) commits an offence.
15. (1) Any engineering practitioner who satisfies the
respective qualifications and experience specified in the
Schedule A hereto, may apply to be  registered as an
engineering practitioner, in such form and manner as  the
Council may determine  by rules made in that  behalf.
(2) Any engineering practitioner who has duly applied
under subsection (1), shall be registered on the payment of
the fee determined by the Council by rules made in that
behalf.
(3) The Council shall not register any person as an
engineering practitioner, other than Engineering
Technicians, unless the application for registration has been
authorized  by the relevant professional body to which such
person belongs.
16. (1) The Council shall cancel the registration of an
engineering practitioner, if the Council is satisfied that such
engineering practitioner-
(a) has contravened any of the provisions of this Act or
any regulation made thereunder or any term and
condition of such registration;
(b) has been adjudged by a competent court whether
in or outside Sri Lanka to be of unsound mind;
(c) has been found guilty of professional misconduct
after an inquiry held by the Council; or
(d) has been convicted  for an offence under this Act.
(2) Where by reasons of the provisions of subsection (1)
the Council is empowered to cancel the registration of an
Application for
registration as an
engineering
practitioner.
Cancellation or
suspension of
registration.

<!-- page 11 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
10
engineering practitioner, the Council may, in lieu of
exercising that power, suspend the registration for such
period as the Council may deem fit.
(3) The Council shall, before cancelling or suspending a
registration, cause a notice of cancellation or suspension to
be issued to such engineering practitioner.
(4) Any such notice shall specify the grounds on which
the Council’s opinion is based, and shall indicate that such
engineering practitioner may within one month after the
receipt thereof submit to the Council in writing any reason
as to why the registration shall not be cancelled or
suspended.
(5) Where such engineering practitioner fails to submit
the reasons within the time stipulated thereof or after
consideration of any reason submitted, the Council may
suspend or cancel the registration of such engineering
practitioner and inform such person in writing about such
suspension or cancellation.
(6) The Minister shall prescribe by regulations the acts or
omissions which amount to professional misconduct.
17. (1) Every engineering practitioner who is registered
under section 15, shall have the right to use, if he is–
(a) a Chartered Engineer, the abbreviated  designation
“CEng”;
(b) an Associate Engineer, the abbreviated  designation
“AEng”;
(c) an Affiliate Engineer, the abbreviated  designation
“AflEng”;
(d) an Incorporated Engineer, the abbreviated
designation “IEng”;
(e) an Engineering Diplomate, the abbreviated
designation “EngDip”;
Use of
abbreviated
designations.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(f) an Engineering Technician,   the abbreviated
designation “EngTec”.
(2) No engineering practitioner shall use any abbreviated
designation referred to in subsection (1) unless  such
engineering practitioner is registered in that category.
18. ( 1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other provisions of this Act, a foreign engineering
practitioner shall apply for temporary registration if he
satisfies the Council that he possesses the prescribed
qualifications and expertise and of  his physical presence in
Sri Lanka, or that he is a resident representative of the foreign
component of a joint venture programme implemented in
Sri Lanka.
 (2) The Council   may subject to the conditions imposed
by the Council, upon payment of a prescribed fee issue a
temporary registration to a foreign engineering practitioner
for a period of four months. Such registration shall be
renewed at the end of that period on application made in
that behalf.
PART  IV
A
PPEALS
19. (1) Any engineering practitioner whose registration
has been refused  by the Council or whose registration has
been cancelled or suspended under section 16(5) by the
Council, may within thirty days of being notified of such
decision,  appeal to the Appeals Board established under
section 20.
(2) The Appeals Board may, after taking into
consideration all the relevant factors and where it is
appropriate and reasonable-
(a) allow or vary the appeal; or
(b) disallow the appeal.
Registration of
foreign
engineers.
Appeals.

<!-- page 13 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
12
20. (1) (a) The Minister shall appoint an Appeals Board
which shall consist of -
(i) one member who shall be a Chartered Engineer
nominated by the University Grants Commission;
(ii) two other  Chartered Engineers; and
(iii) two Incorporated Engineers.
(b) The Minister when appointing the Appeals Board may
consult the Council.
(2) The members of the Appeals Board shall hold office
for a term of three years from the date of appointment and
shall be eligible for reappointment.
(3) The Minister may make regulations specifying the
manner in which the meetings and business of the Appeals
Board shall be carried out.
(4) The Appeals Board shall inform its decision to the
Council.
(5) Upon receiving the decision of the Appeals Board,
the Council shall inform the appellant the decision of the
Appeals Board forthwith and act in accordance with the
decision of the Appeals Board.
(6) The members of the Appeals Board may be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Council with the
concurrence of the Minister assigned of the subject of
Finance.
PART V
A
PPOINTMENT OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND STAFF OF
THE COUNCIL
21. (1) The Council may in consultation with the
Minister appoint to the Staff of the  Council a Chief
Executive Officer (hereinafter referred to as the “Chief
Executive Officer”) from among persons who hold a degree
from a recognized University in Engineering,  Business
Administration, Management or any other related discipline.
Appeals Board.
Appointment  of
the Chief
Executive
Officer of the
Council.

<!-- page 14 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
13
(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall, unless he vacates
office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office
for a period of three years, and shall be eligible for re-
appointment, unless removed on disciplinary grounds.
(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall subject to the
general directions and supervision of the  Council  -
(a) be charged with the administration of the affairs of
the  Council  including the administration and
control of the staff;
(b) be responsible for the execution of all decisions of
the  Council; and
(c) carry out all such functions as may be assigned to
him by the  Council.
(4) The Chief Executive Officer shall be entitled to be
present and speak at any meetings of the Council, but shall
not to be entitled to vote at such meetings.
(5) The Chief Executive Officer may with the written
approval of the Council, delegate in writing to any officer of
the  Council, any of his powers or functions and the officer
to whom any such power or function is delegated shall
exercise or perform them subject to the directions of the
Chief Executive Officer.
(6) The Council may remove the Chief Executive Officer
from office –
(a) if he becomes permanently incapable of performing
his duties;
(b) if he has done any act which, in the opinion of the
Council, is of a fraudulent or illegal character or is
prejudicial to the interests of the Council; or

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(c) has failed to comply with any directions issued by
the  Council.
(7) The office of the Chief Executive Officer shall become
vacant upon the death, removal from office under subsection
(6) or resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the
Council.
(8) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Chief
Executive Officer, the Minister may appoint a member of
the Council   to perform the duties of the Chief Executive
Officer until an appointment is made under subsection (1).
22. (1) The Council  may appoint such officers and
employees as may be necessary for the efficient discharge of
its functions.
(2) The  Council  may, in respect of the officers and
employees appointed to the  Council  under subsection (1) –
(a) exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss such
officers and employees;
(b) fix the rates at which such officers and employees
shall be remunerated in keeping with related
guidelines of the Government;
(c) determine the terms and conditions of employment
of such officers and employees; and
(d) establish a staff welfare and social security schemes
for the benefit of such officers and employees and
make contribution to any such  schemes.
(3) The Council may make rules in respect of all or any of
the matters referred to in subsection (2).
(4) The Council shall not however appoint any person
who has been dismissed from any previous position held by
such person in the public or private sector as an officer or an
employee of the Council.
Staff of the
Council.

<!-- page 16 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
15
23. (1) At the request of the Council  any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and the
Secretary to the Ministry under which that officer is
employed, and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Council for such period as may
be determined by the Council  or with like consent, be
permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of
section 14(2) of the National Transport Commission Act,
No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis , apply to and in
relation to such officer.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Council , the provisions of
section 14(3) of the National Transport Commission Act,
No.37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis , apply to and in
relation to such officer.
(4) Where the Council  employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he
has agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,
any period of service with the Council  by that person shall
be regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.
24. (1) The Council shall appoint one of the Chartered
Engineers as the Registrar, who shall be the Secretary of the
Council.
(2)    The Registrar appointed under this section shall not
be a member of the Council.
25. The Registrar shall, in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and regulations made thereunder
maintain the registers of the engineering practitioners
substantially in the Form specified in the Schedule B hereto.
Public officers
to be appointed
to
the Staff of the
Council.
Registrar.
Registers to be
kept by
Registrar.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
PART  VI
FINANCE
26. (1) The   Council shall have its own fund.
(2)  There shall be credited to the Fund  of the Council –
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from
time to time by Parliament for the use of the
Council;
(b) all such sums of money as are received by the
Council in the exercise and discharge of its
powers and functions under this Act; and
(c) all such sums of money as are received by the
Council as loans, grants and donations from
sources within or outside Sri Lanka.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Council  all
such sums of money required to defray the expenditure
incurred by the Council  in the exercise and performance of
its powers and functions under this Act.
27. The Council  may open and maintain any account
with any State Bank as it may think appropriate, and such
account shall be operated in accordance with prevailing
financial regulations of the Government pertaining to
financial transactions of public corporations.
28. (1) The financial year of the Council  shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Council shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure assets and liabilities
and all other financial transactions of the Council.
(3) For the purpose of presenting a true and fair view of
the financial performance and financial condition of the
Fund of the
Council.
Council  to
maintain
accounts.
Financial year
and audit of
accounts.

<!-- page 18 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
17
Council, the Council  shall prepare the accounts in
accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
adopted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka under the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing
Standards Act, No. 15 of 1995.
(4) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Council.
29. Moneys belonging to the   Council  may, with the
approval of the Minister and with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance, be invested in
Government approved securities.
30. (1) The Council may, with the written consent of
the Minister and the Minister assigned the subject of Finance
and in accordance with the terms of any general authority
given, borrow or obtain on credit terms such sums as the
Council  may require for meeting the obligations of the
Council.
(2) The aggregate of the amount outstanding in respect
of any loan raised by the Council  under this section shall
not at any time exceed such amount as may be determined
by the Minister.
PART VII
G
ENERAL
31. (1) The  Council shall within six months of the end
of each  financial year, submit to the Minister an annual
report of the activities carried on by the  Council during that
financial year, and cause a copy each of the following
documents relating to that year to be attached to the report–
(a) the audited Accounts of the  Council  for the year
along with the Auditor-General’s report;
Investment of
funds.
Borrowing
powers of the
Council.
Annual Report.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(b) a report of proposed activities for the year
immediately following, the year to which such
report and accounts relates.
(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the report and
documents submitted under subsection (1) before Parliament
within six months from the date of receipt of such report.
32. Every member of the Council   and all officers and
employees of the  Council  shall, before entering upon his
duties, sign a declaration pledging to observe strict secrecy
in respect of all matters connected with the affairs of the
Council, which has come to his knowledge in the
performance or exercise of his powers and functions under
this Act and shall by such declaration pledge himself not to
disclose any such matter, except –
(a) when required to do so by a court of law; or
(b) for the purpose of exercising or performing the
powers and functions under this Act or any other
written law.
33. (1) The Council may in writing and subject to such
conditions as may be specified therein, delegate to the Chief
Executive Officer or any officer of the  Council  any of its
powers or functions and any such officer shall exercise or
perform such power or function in the name and on behalf,
of the  Council.
(2) The Council  may, notwithstanding any delegation
made under subsection (1), by itself exercise or perform any
power or function so delegated and may at any time revoke
any such delegation.
34. (1) The Minister may from time to time, issue to the
Council such general or special directions in writing as to
the exercise, and performance of its powers and functions
and it shall be the duty of the Council to give effect to such
directions.
Declaration of
secrecy.
Delegation of
powers of the
Council.
Directions by
the Minister.

<!-- page 20 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
19
(2) The Minister may direct the Council to furnish to him
in such form as he may require, returns, accounts and any
other information relating to the work of the Council, and it
shall be the duty of the Council to give effect to such
directions.
35. The Chief Executive Officer and the officers and
employees of the Council  shall be deemed to be public
officers within the meaning of and for the purposes of the
Penal Code.
36. The Council  shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning and for the purposes of the
Bribery Act and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.
37. (1) Any expense incurred by the Council  in any
suit or prosecution brought by or against it before any court,
shall be paid out of the Fund of the  Council  and any costs
paid to or recovered by the  Council  in any such suit or
prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the  Council.
(2) Expenses incurred by any member, the Chief
Executive Officer or any officer or employee of the  Council
in any suit or prosecution brought against such person before
any court or tribunal in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done by  such person  under the provisions
of this Act or any other written law or on the direction of the
Council shall, if the court holds that such act was done in
good faith, be paid out  of the Fund of the  Council, unless
such expenses are recoverable by  such person in such suit
or prosecution.
38. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication, or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulations.
Officers and
employees of
the Council
deemed to be
public officers.
Council deemed
to be a Scheduled
institution.
Expenses in suit
or prosecution
to be paid out of
the Fund.
Regulations.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(3) (a) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.
(b) Any such regulation which is not so approved shall
be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval,
but without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
 (4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.
39. (1)  Subject to the provisions of this Act, the  Council
may make rules in respect of all matters for which rules are
authorized or required to be made under this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Council may
make rules in respect of all  or any of the following matters:–
(a) registration fee of the engineering practitioners;
(b) the procedure at meetings of the   Council;
(c) the appointment, suspension, removal, duties and
remuneration of officers and employees of the
Council;
(d) for  keeping of accounts of the receipts and expenses,
in carrying out the provisions of this Act;
(e) providing for roles, responsibilities and competence
of different  categories of the engineering
practitioners registered under this Act taking into
consideration their academic qualifications and
practical experience;
(f) for suspension and removal of names from the
registers of  the engineering practitioners; and
Rules.

<!-- page 22 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
21
(g) the manner in which  the registers to be maintained.
(3) Every rule made by the Council shall be published in
the Gazette.
40. (1) Every person who contravenes any of the
provisions of this Act or any other regulation made
thereunder, commits an offence and  shall on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
one year  or to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
rupees or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then, if that body of persons is –
(a) a body corporate, every director or other officer of
that body corporate;
(b) a firm, every partner of that firm; and
(c) an unincorporated body other than a firm, every
individual who is a member of such body and every
officer of that body responsible for its management
and control,
shall be guilty of an offence:
Provided however, that no such person shall be deemed
to be guilty an offence if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all
due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.
41. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires –
“Engineering Practitioner”  means –
(a) a Chartered Engineer;
(b) an Associate Engineer;
Offences and
penalties.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
(c) an Affiliate Engineer;
(d) an Incorporated Engineer;
(e) an Engineering Diplomate; or
(f) an Engineering Technician,
who possesses corresponding qualifications
specified in Schedule A hereto;
“Minister” means the Minister to whom the
implementation of the provisions of this Act
is assigned; and
“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made
       under this Act.
42. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
(Section  15 )
SCHEDULE A
Qualifications of the Engineering Practitioners
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Chartered Engineer of the Institution of
Engineers, Sri Lanka  established by the
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka  Act,
No.17 of 1968.
Four year Full-time degree in
Engineering  recognized by the
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka
established by the Institution of
Engineers, Sri Lanka  Act, No.17 of 1968
or an Associate Member of the
Institution  of Engineers, Sri Lanka
Engineering Practitioner Qualifications
Chartered Engineer
Associate Engineer

<!-- page 24 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
23
Engineering Technician
Engineering Diplomate
Incorporated Engineer
established by the Institution of
Engineers, Sri Lanka  Act, No.17 of
1968.
Three year full time degree in
Engineering  recognized by the
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka
established by the Institution of
Engineers, Sri Lanka  Act, No.17 of
1968.
Incorporated Engineer of the Institution
of Incorporated Engineers, Sri Lanka
established by the Institution of
Incorporated Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 64 of 1992.
Diploma in Engineering from a
recognized University or Technical or
Technological Institute recognized by
the Institution of Incorporated Engineers
of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.
64 of 1992.
(i) National Vocational Qualification
Level IV of Engineering
Technology or equivalent
qualification recognized by the
Tertiary and Vocational Education
Commission established by
the Tertiary and Vocational
Education Act, No. 20 of 1990 .
(ii) one year full-time academic course
in Engineering Technology and
has gained one year industrial
experience in the relevant field or
a holder of a Diploma or Certificate
in Technology by a University or
a Technical or Technological
Institute of  the Government of
Sri Lanka.
Affiliate Engineer

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
SCHEDULE B
Registers of the engineering practitioners
PART I
Register of the Chartered Engineers, Associate Engineers and
Affiliate Engineers
Registration Name Address Date of Qualification Registration
No. Registration fee
PART II
Register of the Incorporated Engineers, and Engineering
Diplomates
Registration Name Address Date of Qualification Registration
No. Registration fee
PART III
Register of the Engineering Technicians
Registration Name Address Date of Qualification Registration
No. Registration fee
(Section 25)

<!-- page 26 -->

Engineering Council, Sri Lanka
Act, No. 4 of 2017
25
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .