

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1770$17 - 2012 wf.daia;= ui 09 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'08'09
No. 1770/17  -  THURSDAY ,   AUGUST  09,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
NORTH  WESTERN   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
North Western Provincial Council Agriculture Statute No. 02 of 2012 of the North Western Province
THE above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 05th June, 2012 and
assented by the Governor of North Western Province on 02nd July, 2012 is hereby published for the information of the
public.
P
ADMINI KARIYAW ASAM,
Secretary,
Council Office, Provincial Council,
North Western Provincial Council, North Western Province.
Kurunegala,
06th August, 2012.
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  AGRICULTURE  STATUTE  No.  02  OF  2012  OF  THE
NORTH  WESTERN   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
A Statute to provide for the formulation, implementation and operation of policies in relation to the Agriculture including
extension and promotion of and education on agriculture and agricultural services and to the agricultural researches (excluding
the institutes designated as National Agricultural Research Institutes) in order to achieve the objects of the provincial
agricultural policy for the sustainable development in the North Western Province and for the matters incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the North Western Provincial Council by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Provincial Agricultural Statute No. 02 of 2012 of
the North Western Provincial Council.
2. The objects of the Statute are as follows :
(i) to design, formulate, implement and operate the agricultural policy of the province in
compliance with the national policy ;
(ii) to provide for the design and maintenance of programmes for the Provincial Agricultural
including extension and promotion of and education on agriculture and agricultural services
and for the agricultural researches with an view to uplifting the livelihoods of farmers ;
Short title and
date of
operation.
Objects of the
Statue.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
2A
Powers of the
secretary.
Agriculture
policies to be
made.
(iii) to establish the North Western Provincial Department of Agriculture for
the purpose of execution of functions enumerated in the Statute ;
(iv) to establish the Provincial Agriculture Committee ;
(v) to establish and register voluntary organizations engaged in agricultural
activities ;
(vi) to register other institutions engaged in the field of agriculture ;
(vii) to coordinate among Public, Semi-Government and Non-Government
institutions, voluntary organization and individuals engaged in the field
of agriculture and to muster their active participation ;
(viii) to provide for the promotion, conservation and propagation of local and traditional
agricultural practies and resources inherent to North Western Province ;
(ix) to encourage farmers to cultivate lands hitherto not used for cultivation ; and
(x) to provide for the proper utilization of physical and human resources the North Western
Provincial Department of Agriculture.
Part  I
POLICY   PLANNING
3. The provincial Ministry shall be assigned the responsibility of making policies in compliance
with the National policy relevant to the field of agriculture in the North Western province. The provincial
Ministry may obtain proposals from Agriculture Committees to be established in the province and from the
public, Semi - government, non - government institutions and individuals for the purpose.
4. The Provincial Director of Agriculture shall in every five years formulate the Provincial Agriculture
Policy on the basis of the dissemination of population as against the land extent of the province.
5. The Provincial Ministry and the Department of Agriculture shall in pursuance of the provisions
of this Statute, provide the farmers in the province with services in the fields of extension, promotion of and
education on agriculture, marketing and coordination in marketing of agricultural products and of provincial
research activities.
6. Agricultural Zones and Agriculture Extension Divisions may be demarcated depending on the
dissemination of population, extent of lands, climatic conditions, environmental impacts and transport
facilities in the province.
7. The North Western Provincial Minister -In-Charge of the subject of Agriculture may make
regulations, issue instructions and provide guidance for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of
this Statute.
8. (1) Appeals from any order or determination of any official made under the provisions of this
Statute or under any regulation made there under may be made to the Minister.
(2) The Minister may confirm, reject or revise such order or determination on the recommendation
made upon an inquiry in that regard by an official or a board of inquiry appointed for the purpose by the
Secretary on the direction of the Minister.
9. The Secretary  shall formulate, implement, operate and control the Provincial Agricultural Policy
on the instructions and guidance issued by the Minister for the purpose of giving effect to provisions of
this Statute.
Provincial
Agricultural
Plan.
Appeals.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
Director to be
appointed.
Functions of the
Department.
Appointment of
officers.
Part  II
COMPOSITION, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PROVINCIAL DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
10. There shall be established the North Western Provincial Department of Agriculture for the
purpose of giving effect to provisions of this Statute.
11. The Governor of the North Western Province shall with the concurrence of the Minister,
appoint a Class I officer of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service to the post of “North Western Provincial
Director of Agriculture” to execute the powers vested in the Department.
12. (1) There shall be appointed Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors, Agriculture Instructors,
Rural Level Extension Officers and other officers to the staff of the Department as may be necessary for the
execution and management of the powers and functions of the Directors.
(2) All officers and employees who held posts in the North Western Provincial Department of
Agriculture on the date this Statute coming into effect, shall be deemed as appointed under this Statute.
13. (1)    The Director shall be vested with the powers to execute orders and regulations made for
the purpose of this Statute or for the matters incidental thereto under the normal direction of the Director.
(2) The Director may delegate his powers to other officers of the Department as may be required.
14. There shall be established and maintained Zonal Agro Resource Centres and Agriculture
Instructor’s offices for the promotion of agricultural activities at agro climatic zones.
15. There may be established a Education and Training Division or Unit for the promotion of
education on agriculture.
16. There may be established and maintained institutions for research work as may be necessary
for the province other than those institutions designated as National Agriculture Research Institutions.
17. The Director shall prepare annually a Development Plan for the development of agricultural
institutions and for the promotion of agricultural activities within the province based on the Provincial
Agricultural Plan and submit same to the Secretary for approval.
18. The Department shall provide following services for the development, promotion and extension
of agriculture within the province :
(i) to provide consultations on agriculture extension and training ;
(ii) to conduct provincial agricultural research and surveys ;
(iii) to formulate and implement Agricultural Development Plan for the province and annual
plans ;
(iv) to coordinate among research institutes, universities and other institutes in the field of
agriculture at national, provincial and divisional levels ;
(v) to introduce appropriate technology for agricultural activities ;
(vi) to introduce and sale of high quality seeds and seedlings ;
Powers of the
North Western
Provincial
Director of
Agriculture.
Zonal and
Instructor’s
offices to be
established.
Training Units
to be established.
Research
institutions to be
established.
Annual Plan.
Establishment of
the Department.
4 — PG 001380

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
4A
Provincial
Agriculture
Committee.
Composition of
the Committee.
(vii) to introduce organic and chemical manure, agro chemicals and agricultural machinery ;
(viii) to register voluntary organizations engaged in agriculture ;
(ix) to implement projects to grant loans for agricultural activities ;
(x) to take action to revitalize agriculture through agriculture development societies, farmer
women societies, young farmer young societies and through the school system ;
(xi) to implement plans so as to achieve provincial food and nutrition security targets ;
(xii) to maintain data bases on agricultural programmes implemented in the province and provide
such data to institutions which require them ;
(xiii) to maintain the quality of agro products and to take measures to extend the post harvest
technology ;
(xiv) to introduce, promote and market organic products ;
(xv) to register at provincial level organic manure producing institutions and to issue quality
certificates ;
(xvi) to maintain a service to certificate seeds and culture matter in order to meet the demand for
seeds and culture matter in the province in pursuance of the National Policy ;
(xvii) to issue crop damage valuation reports and submit estimates ;
(xviii) to advise on the use of pesticides ; and
(xix) to provide for the conservation and extension of domestic and traditional agricultural
practices.
Part  III
PROVINCIAL  AGRICULTURE  COMMITTEE
19. There shall be established a Provincial Agriculture Committee to facilitate the implementation
of the Provincial Agriculture Policy. The Provincial Minister in-charge of the subject of Agriculture shall be
the Chairman of the Committee and the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of the Provincial Minister in-
charge of the subject of Agriculture shall be the Secretary to this Committee. The Committee may function
in collaboration with the Provincial Animal production and Development Committee.
20. (I) The Committee shall consist of the following :
(i) Members of the Consultative Committee of the Provincial Ministry of Agricuture ;
(ii) District Secretaries of the Administrative Districts of Kurunegala and Puttlam ;
(iii) North Western Provincial Director of Agriculture ;
(iv) North Western Provincial Director of Animal Production and Animal Health ;
(v) North Western Provincial Commissioner of Lands ;
(vi) North Western Provincial Director of Engineering ;
(vii) North Western Provincial Director of Health ;
(viii) Deputy Inspector Generals of Police Kurunegala and Puttlam ;

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
(ix) North Western Provincial Director of Irrigation ;
(x) Deputy or Assistant Commissioners of Agrarian Services of the districts of Kurunegala
and Puttlam ;
(xi) General Manager, North Western Human Resources Development Authority ;
(xii) General Manager, North Western Development Authority ;
(xiii) Director, North Western Provincial Environment Authority ;
(xiv) Heads of projects implemented within the North Western Province by Government, semi-
government or private sector institutions in the fields of agriculture, animal production
and irrigation ;
(xv) Assistant Directors of Export Agriculture of the districts of Kurunegala and Puttlam ;
(xvi) Regional Managers of the North Western Provincial Coconut Cultivation Board ;
(xvii) North Western Provincial Manager of the Cashew Corporation ;
(xviii) Kurunegala and Puttlam District Heads of the National Aquaculture Development
Authority ;
(xix) Kurunegala and Puttlam District Managers of the Agriculture and Agrarian Services
Insurance Board ;
(xx) Kurunegala and Puttlam District Forest Conservation Officers ;
(xxi) North Western Provincial Assistant Director of Wildlife ;
(xxii) Three Assistant Directors In-charge of Zones nominated by the Provincial Director of
Agriculture as may be necessary ;
(xxiii) Provincial Manager of the Paddy Marketing Board ;
(xxiv) Kurunegala and Puttlam District Heads of the National Fertilizer Secretariat ;
(xxv) Regional Managers of State Banks or their nominees ;
(xxvi) Kurunegala and Puttlam District Heads of Private Banks ;
(xxvii) Provincial or District Heads of major companies engaged in agriculture ;
(xxviii) Two experts with specialized knowledge in the field of agriculture ;
(xxix) Two Executive Committee Members of Agrio Product Societies ; and
(xxx) Two representatives from Executive Committees of Farmer Organizations.
(II) The Minister may co-opt the representatives of Government or Non-Government organizations
on to the Agriculture Committee as the case may be.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
6A
Appointment of
members to the
Committee.
Powers and
duties of the
Committee.
Procedures and
remuneration for
participation.
21. The Members of the Agriculture Committee referred to under (i) to (xxvi) at sub-paragraph
20(I) of this Statute shall be ex-officio members and the Minister may appoint the other Members referred
to under (xxvii) to (xxx) at his discretion.
22. The term of office of the members appointed by the Minister shall be one year.
23. Where a member appointed by the Minister vacates office by expiry of term of office, resignation,
removal by the Minister at his discretion, absence from three consecutive meetings or death or insanity,
the Minister shall fill the vacancy so created.
24. The Provincial Committee shall meet at least once in every two months and if found necessary
the Secretary may convey supplementary meetings of the Committee on the direction of the Chairman.
25. (1) The quorum of the Committee shall be 1/4 of the membership.
(2) The existence of vacancies in the Committee shall not hinder the conduct of meetings of the
Committee or the making of decisions at such meetings.
26. The functions of the Provincial Agricultural Committee shall be :-
(i) to make and implement recommendations and proposals to make policies relevant to the
province regarding matters stipulated in the Statute in compliance with the National
Policy ;
(ii) to provide necessary advice for the operation and implementation of matters stipulated in
the Statute;
(iii) to approve the Provincial Agriculture Policy ;
(iv) to take follow up actions and to review the implementation of the Provincial Agriculture
Policy while providing necessary resources and assistance for same ;
(v) to determine the issues that arise in formulating and implementing the agriculture plans for
the province ;
(vi) to grant prior approval for any programme or project for the extension and promotion of
and education on agriculture, provision of services and for researches related to agriculture
to be implemented within the province by any institution, organization, foundation, society,
project, programme or similar institution individual or group of persons ;
(vii) to ensure the optimum utilization of agricultural land for the highest yield.
27. (1) The Committee may make procedures for the conduct of business of the meetings of the
Committee.
(2) The members of the Committee participating in the meetings thereof may be remunerated at
such rates as may be approved by the Minister.
Term of office
of the members.
Vacation of
membership.
Meetings of the
Committee.
The Quorum.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
Setting up and
registration of
societies.
Name of the
society.
Governmental or
Non-governmen-
tal financial
Assistance.
Cancellation of
registration and
liquidation.
Part  IV
AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMENT  SOCIETIES
28. There may be set up Agricultural Development Societies bringing the farmers engaged
in agricultural activities in the province together and every such society shall be registered with the
Department.
29. Every society set up under Section 28 of this Statute shall bear the name of Agricultural
Development Society and shall be for a specific crop or for a specific development object or objects.
30. The Department shall formulate a common constitution for Agricultural Development Societies
and the said constitution shall come into effect from the date it receives the approval of the Minister. The
Minister shall have the power to make regulations with regard to Administration and Financial affairs of
such societies.
31. The Agricultural Development Societies may set up executive committees at provincial, zonal
and Divisional levels and the Department shall formulate the constitute relating to composition, functions
and general provision of such executive committees and the approval of the Provincial Committee shall be
obtained therefor.
32. Monies received from State, provincial or non-governmental projects may be utilized to enhance
the funds of Agricultural Development Societies.
33. (1) The Director may appoint a liquidator to cancel the registration and to liquidate any
registered Agricultural Development Society on any one of or more of following grounds :
(i) the membership declines to less than twelve ;
(ii) being defunct for a period exceeding one year ;
(iii) has acted contrary to its objects ;
(iv) a number of members not less than a quarter (1/4) of the membership making a request to
the Director citing that the society has failed to act for the welfare of its members.
(2) The liquidator appointed under Section 33(1) above shall have the following powers :
(i) to determine the priority among the creditors of the society ;
(ii) to sale properties of the society ;
(iii) to settle any claims by or against the society with the approval of the Secretary ;
(iv) To distribute assets of the society as required.
(3) The Liquidation Notice of the liquidator shall be published in a newspaper published in all
three languages viz Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(4) When a society is liquidated, the fund of the society shall be used for the settlement of
liquidation expenses in the first instance and thereafter for the settlement of its liabilities. The surplus of
funds on liquidation shall be credited to the Provincial Council Fund.
Common
Constitution.
Executive
Committees of
Agricultural
Development
Societies.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
8A
Approval to
obtain for
agricultural.
Regulations to be
published in the
Gazette.
Interpretation.
Part  V
GENERAL
34. Any institution, organization, foundation, society, project, programme or similar institution,
individual or group of persons shall prior to implement any programme or project for the extension and
promotion of and education on agriculture, provision of services and for researches related to agriculture
within the province, obtain the approval of the Provincial Agriculture Committee therefor.
35. Every regulation made by the Minister under Section 7 of this Statute shall be published in the
Gazette and shall come into operation on the date of such publication or on such date as may be specified
in such regulation.
36. Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon as it is convenient after its publication in
the Gazette, be brought forward before the Provincial Council for approval. Any regulation which is not so
approved by the Provincial Council shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but
without prejudices to anything previously made thereunder and a notification of the date on which any
such regulation is deemed rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
37. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with or deliberately impedes any provisions of
this Statute or any regulation made thereunder shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute.
38. Where an offence under this Statute is committed, the Provincial Director or any other officer
authorized by him shall have the power to institute action.
39. Any person who commits an offence under this Statute shall on conviction after summery trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 20,000.00 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 06 months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Part  VI
INTERPRETATION
40. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires :-
“Province” means the North Western Province ;
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Governor” means the Governor of Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Minister” means the Minister in-charge of the subject of Agriculture of the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province ;
“Provincial Ministry” means the Ministry in-charge of the subject of Agriculture of the
Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Ministry in-charge of the subject of Agriculture of
the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Department” means the North Western Provincial Department of Agriculture ;
“Director” means the North Western Provincial Director of Agriculture ;
Approval of the
provincial
council for
regulations.
Offences.
Power to
institute action.
Punishments.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'09
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.08.2012
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
“Agriculture” means the cultivation and conservation of all useful plants to ensure the
foods and nutrition security of the public with or without commercial objects ;
“progression of agriculture” means the improvement of agricultural resources for the optimum
yield ;
“extension of Agriculture” means the intervention in providing necessary resources for the
introduction and implementation of technical methods designed to optimize the yield of
crops for food to farmers and other interested groups and assisting them with such
methods ;
“Education on Agriculture” means the provision of necessary knowledge and skills to and
the inculcation of attitudes in farmers and other interested groups for the introduction
and implementation of technical methods designed to optimize the yield of crops for
food and fiber production to them and assisting them with such methods ;
“Agricultural Services” means the provision of material or non material and live or lifeless
infrastructure facilities deemed to be necessary for the achievement of anticipated targets
of the extension and progression of agriculture for the provincial purposes ;
“Provincial Agricultural Researches” means the experiments (not aimed at building up of
basic theories) carried out at provincial level to make recommendations to resolve technical
issues and to establish the relevance of technology and recommendations introduced
for resolving such issues ;
“Committee” means the North Western Provincial Agriculture Committee ;
“Agriculture Develoment Society” means a group of farmers joint together for the
enhancement of agro products ;
“Federation of Agriculture Organizations” means an entity jointly formed by the Farmer
Organizations and Agro Production Societies ;
“Kurunegala” means the Administrative District of Kurunegala ;
and
“Puttlam” means the Administrative District of Puttlam.
41. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute,
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
08-681
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.