

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of May 13, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 16. 05. 2016)
A
BILL
(Private Member’ s Bill)
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
JANAKARALIYA CULTURAL
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Sunil Handunnetti
to incorporate the  Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 009887—300 (04/2016)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Janakaraliya
Cultural
Foundation.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JANAKARALIYA
CULTURAL FOUNDATION
WHERE a Foundation called and known as the
“Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation ” has heretofore been
formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said  Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters  for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Janakaraliya Cultural
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.       2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of
this Act, such and so may persons as now are members
of the “Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation”  (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall  hereafter be
admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted
shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name
and style of “
Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation” and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to build awareness amongst the people of every
strata about the importance of cultural and spiritual
development parallel to the material development
and the importance and possibility of the usage of
drama and theatre and other arts as supportive
human activites within that integral development,
to build a sensitive, creative, wise and active
society;
(b) to provide access for the majority of people in the
country to theatre of performance without any
ethnic, socio-cultural or political discrimination,
by broadening the usage of it and motivating them
through various methods to participate in drama
and theatre and arts;
(c) to use and support to sue drama and theatre and
other arts to enable majority of society to
understand and build self esteem, while
undrstanding tolerating, appreciating, admiring
others and their various ideologies, inclinations,
behaviours, cultures that enable them to
communicate and interact with each other
effectively and as a result support building a society
in which everybody can live in harmony and peace;
(d) to support to create a society to understand the
nature and build a good relationship with the nature
that enables living in harmony with nature;
(e) to prepare, print, publish, issue, edit and cirulate
books, brochures, pamphlets, journals, magazines,
periodicals, articles, bulletins and audio visual
materials and to disseminate information and
knowledge on drama and theatre and other arts and
its ancillary arts as educational subjects and also to
utilize  audio-visual media to fulfill the same
purpose.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30
35

<!-- page 4 -->

3Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) to sponsor or and conduct workshops, conferences,
seminars, group studies and public lectures on
drama and theatre in any part of the country or
outside Sri Lanka;
(g) to grant assistance to individuals, primary
community organizations, government
institutions for the achieving objectives of the
Foundation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation,
made under Section 6, be administerd by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and
another five members elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
his election.
(3) A member of the Board of Directors shall unless he
vacates his office earlier by death or resignation, holds office
for a period of four years reckoned from the date of his
election.
(4) If any member of the Board of Directors vacates his
office prior to the expiry of his term, his successor elected in
accordance with rules of the Corporation shall hold office
only for the unexpired term  of office of the member who he
succeeds.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
of furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any
one of them, including the power to acquire and hold
property both  movable and immovable, to receive or collect
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
power of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
grants and donations to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without security,to
erect any building or structures on any land held by the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and perfomance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualification required to become a member
of the Corporation and of the Board of Directors;
(e) election of Board of Directors; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Institution existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to  subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
or grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and function under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property,  movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of  any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for
the time being of the Corporation, with full power  to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.
10. No member of the Corporation there remains after
the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities of the
Corporation or for any other purpose, be liable to make any
contribution exceeding the amount of such membership fees
as may be due from him to the Corporation.
10
15
20
25
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
Liabilities of
members.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation
(Incorporation)
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the Corporation, but
shall be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objectives similar to those of the
Corporation and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited
from distributing any income or property among their
members. Such institution or institutions may be determined
by the members of the Corporation on or before the dissolution
of the Corporation.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, anybody politic, or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Janakaraliya Cultural Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .