

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
w;s úfYI
wxl 2198$54 - 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 22 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2020'10'22
No. 2198/54 -  thursdAy OctOber  22,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  5108 — 70  (10/2020)
wESTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
The Notification made under Section 184 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with Section 2 of the 
Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
i, roshan Goonetileke, the Governor of  Western Province, by virtue of the powers vested in me under section 184 of 
Pradeshiya sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with section 2 of the Provincial councils (consequential Provisions) Act No. 
12 of 1989, do hereby declare that rules relating to Procedure for the conduct of business at Meetings of the Pradeshiya 
sabha, with regard to the Pradeshiya sabhas of Western Province.
Roshan Goonetileke,
 rWP & bAr VsV usP
Phd  FiM (sri Lanka) Ndc Psc
Marshal of the sri Lanka Air Force,
Governor of Western Province.
21st October, 2020,
At the Office of the Governor of Western Province,
Western Provincial 
council building,
No. 204, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
2A
ruLes
 1. these rules shall be enforced to regularize the procedure for conducting business at meetings 
of Pradeshiya sabha and for allocating provisions to repeal Pradeshiya sabha (Procedure for the 
conduct of business at Meetings) rules of 1988.
 2. these rules may be cited as the Pradeshiya sabha (Procedure for the conduct of business at 
Meetings) rules.
 3. The Pradeshiya Sabha shall, subjected to the provisions stated in the initial law, be held at the office 
of the sabha on every calendar month on a day and time pre-determined by it. if that day falls on 
a Public holiday, then such meeting shall be convened on the next available working day.
 4. A notice for convening an Ordinary Meeting of Pradeshiya sabha, along with the agenda relevant 
to such meeting shall be served by the chairman to every member of Pradeshiya sabha prior to four 
days of such meeting excluding saturdays, sundays and Public holidays. in the event of failure to 
personally serve the notice specified under this Section, leaving it at the place where the member 
usually resides at shall be considered as a proper delivery of the notice.
  h owever, where the sabha has decided that convening of the sabha and serving of documents should 
be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address confirmed by every 
member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the secretary, the notice 
under this section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to it being forwarded 
to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall be considered as a 
legal handing over.
 5. A notice for convening a special Meeting of Pradeshiya sabha having included the proposition or 
propositions requiring to be decided at the said special Meeting shall be served to every member 
of the sabha prior to two days of the date such meeting has been scheduled to. else, should be left 
at the place of residing.
  h owever, where the sabha has decided that convening of the sabha and serving of documents should 
be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address confirmed by every 
member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the secretary, the notice 
under this section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to it being forwarded 
to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall be considered as a 
legal handing over.
 6. 
(1) the quorum of an Ordinary Meeting or a special Meeting shall be one- third of the number of 
members holding positions to that date. Whenever the one-third is calculated, where one-third 
of such number is an integer and fraction, the integer immediately higher than that integer and 
fraction shall be deemed to be one-third for the purpose of this rule. in every occasion the chair 
observes that the sabha is lacking quorum, or any member draws attention of the chair to that 
matter, having suspended the affairs of the sabha, the chair shall order the summoning bells to 
be rung. if the quorum is not achieved within 5 minutes of such action being taken, the sabha 
shall be postponed to some other time.
  (2) When the whole sabha has converted to a committee of the Whole sabha, it shall consist of the 
required quorum and provisions stated in the above section (1) shall be applicable in the same 
manner in case of occasions where such quorum is absent.
 7. (1) if the quorum of the sabha failed to achieve after termination of thirty minutes of its summoning, 
such meeting shall be postponed to whatever time ordered by the chair.
Ordinary Meeting.
special Meeting.
Quorum.
Postponement 
due to absence of 
quorum.

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
  (2) if any meeting postponed by the chair under this section lacked quorum to assemble within 24 
hours subsequent to postponement of that meeting, the time of which has been calculated from 
its first postponement, such meeting should be adjourned to another date. The Sabha adjourned 
thus, shall be assembled again on a date not exceeding 15 days of its adjournment for the Agenda 
of the adjourned meeting and the notice for summoning such meeting shall be served to all the 
members or be left at their residence three days prior to the scheduled date excluding saturdays, 
sundays and Public holidays.
   however, where the sabha has decided that convening of the sabha and serving of documents 
should be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address confirmed 
by every member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the secretary, 
the notice under this section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to it being 
forwarded to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall be 
considered as a legal handing over.
 8. An Ordinary or special Meeting or sabha in quorum may be suspended from time to time according 
to the agreement of sabha. except the affairs not attended in the Agenda of such suspended meeting, 
no other affairs shall be attended at a suspended meeting. A suspended meeting shall assemble at a 
date not expiring fifteen days from the date of suspension and complete the Agenda wherein the notice 
for summoning such meeting shall be served to all the members three days prior to the scheduled 
date excluding saturdays, sundays and Public holidays, else, shall be left at their residence.
  h owever, where the sabha has decided that convening of the sabha and serving of documents should 
be carried out through electronic mail and where an electronic mail address confirmed by every 
member as their own electronic mail address and has been submitted to the secretary, the notice 
under this section for convening a meeting and all the documents relevant to it being forwarded 
to electronic mail addresses of all the members sparing the specified time, shall be considered as a 
legal handing over.
 9. For all purposes connected with precedence and seniority of members of the sabha, the precedence 
order of chairman, deputy chairman, successive re-elected members according to the consecutive 
seniority of the party or independent group elected to that sabha and when consecutive seniority 
becomes equal, the order stated in the Election Commissioner’s or Returning Officer’s declaration, 
whereas, in the absence of consecutive seniority, precedence order of elections commissioner’s or 
Returning Officer’s declaration shall be taken into consideration.
 10. (1) e very member including chairman, deputy chairman participating in Ordinary Meeting, special 
Meeting or committee Meeting if male, shall be dressed in his National costume or european 
suit and if female, shall be dressed in her National costume.
  (2) Where there is an accepted official robe for the Chairman, he shall preside dressed in that official 
robe.
  (3) The official robe for the Chairman shall be made in the manner Sabha decides.
 11. Visitors including electronic and print media reporters shall take up places in the meeting hall 
allocated for each of them. however, on a matter opportune, if decided by the majority of members 
by way of a resolution passed at the sabha that removal of them from the chamber would be good 
for public welfare and the chair requests for such vacation, they shall leave the chamber.
  Nevertheless, no hindrance shall be caused by this section to officers summoned by the Chairman 
to accomplish duties, to remain in the chamber.
Adjournment of 
meetings.
Precedence Order.
Visitor’s 
attendance.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
4A
 12. the business of the sabha shall be transacted in the following order :
 (a) Confirmation of the minutes of previous Sabha/ meeting
 (b) Announcements made by the chairman
 (c) Motions on permission of leave
 (d) Presentation of memorandums, petitions, complaints
 (e) Questions of which due notice has been given
 (f) Motions of which due notice has been given
 (g) review on reports of committee Meetings
 (h) reviewing on monthly statements relating to receipts and disbursements of the sabha
 (i) Matters included into agenda having further decided by sabha.
 13. (1) Minutes including all the affairs and orders of the Pradeshiya sabha meeting shall be maintained 
by the secretary of the Pradeshiya sabha in a record book in the medium sabha affairs take 
place.
  (2) Minutes of each calendar month’s meeting shall be included into the Agenda of the successive 
month’s ordinary meeting and along with the notice for convening the said meeting, it shall be 
served to all the members as if the convening notice is served.
  (3) At the succeeding meeting the question shall be put that the minutes be taken as read and confirmed 
and if there are any corrections to amendments only, having considered such, the minutes shall 
be confirmed and deemed as adopted.
 14. (1)  The Chairman may present notifications relevant to his subject field relating to matters which 
he thinks important to be brought up into sabha’s notice.
  (2)  No opportunity will be there for any member to speak on matters in the notifications made thus 
or debate on matters containing in such statement.
  (3) the statements made by the chairman under this section shall comply with the subject of Local 
Government and such statement shall not prejudice any member.
 15. (1)  Any member, when he is unable to participate in Sabha meetings on justifiable reasons, may 
make a written request to chairman asking for Permission for Leave by himself or through other 
member.
  (2)  A motion in that regard may be moved by the chairman or by other member on permission of 
the chair and Permission for Leave will be granted by the adoption of the motion
 16. (1)  every memorandum, petition or complaint presented to the sabha shall relate to a matter relevant 
to the subject field of the Local Government Authority.
  (2) every memorandum, petition, complaint shall address either the sabha or chairman and should 
be composed in dignified language.
  (3) every memorandum, petition, complaint shall clearly carry the date of signing and personal 
address of the person presenting it. Further, it shall be written in legible handwriting and relief 
expected thereby should be mentioned clearly.
  (4) If there are any documents to confirm the matters stated in the memorandum, petition or complaint; 
their certified copies shall be attached to the petition.
Order of business
Adopting the Min-
utes
Announcements by 
Chairman
Order of business.
Adopting the 
Minutes.
Announcements 
by chairman.
Permission for 
Leave.
Presentation of 
memorandums, 
petitions, 
complaints.

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
 12. the business of the sabha shall be transacted in the following order :
 (a) Confirmation of the minutes of previous Sabha/ meeting
 (b) Announcements made by the chairman
 (c) Motions on permission of leave
 (d) Presentation of memorandums, petitions, complaints
 (e) Questions of which due notice has been given
 (f) Motions of which due notice has been given
 (g) review on reports of committee Meetings
 (h) reviewing on monthly statements relating to receipts and disbursements of the sabha
 (i) Matters included into agenda having further decided by sabha.
 13. (1) Minutes including all the affairs and orders of the Pradeshiya sabha meeting shall be maintained 
by the secretary of the Pradeshiya sabha in a record book in the medium sabha affairs take 
place.
  (2) Minutes of each calendar month’s meeting shall be included into the Agenda of the successive 
month’s ordinary meeting and along with the notice for convening the said meeting, it shall be 
served to all the members as if the convening notice is served.
  (3) At the succeeding meeting the question shall be put that the minutes be taken as read and confirmed 
and if there are any corrections to amendments only, having considered such, the minutes shall 
be confirmed and deemed as adopted.
 14. (1)  The Chairman may present notifications relevant to his subject field relating to matters which 
he thinks important to be brought up into sabha’s notice.
  (2)  No opportunity will be there for any member to speak on matters in the notifications made thus 
or debate on matters containing in such statement.
  (3) the statements made by the chairman under this section shall comply with the subject of Local 
Government and such statement shall not prejudice any member.
 15. (1)  Any member, when he is unable to participate in Sabha meetings on justifiable reasons, may 
make a written request to chairman asking for Permission for Leave by himself or through other 
member.
  (2)  A motion in that regard may be moved by the chairman or by other member on permission of 
the chair and Permission for Leave will be granted by the adoption of the motion
 16. (1)  every memorandum, petition or complaint presented to the sabha shall relate to a matter relevant 
to the subject field of the Local Government Authority.
  (2) every memorandum, petition, complaint shall address either the sabha or chairman and should 
be composed in dignified language.
  (3) every memorandum, petition, complaint shall clearly carry the date of signing and personal 
address of the person presenting it. Further, it shall be written in legible handwriting and relief 
expected thereby should be mentioned clearly.
  (4) If there are any documents to confirm the matters stated in the memorandum, petition or complaint; 
their certified copies shall be attached to the petition.
Order of business
Adopting the Min-
utes
Announcements by 
Chairman
  (5) Matters such as the ones pending in a court of law or in any such institution meting out justice, 
or a matter that has already been forwarded for arbitration shall not be presented thus.
  (6) No member may present a memorandum, petition or complaint on his behalf.
  (7) Any member presenting a memorandum, petition or complaint shall limit his speech to “hon. 
chairman, 1 shall hereby present the memorandum/ petition / complaint made by ............ residing
   at .........  in relation to the matter of .......... ” and no providence shall be allowed for a debate on 
that matter.
  (8)Whenever a memorandum, petition, complaint is presented by a member, any other member may 
propose it to be read out. however, the reasons as to why the motion should be read out at the 
time of its presentation need to be expressed.
  (9) When a motion has been presented under the above subsection (8), such memorandum, petition, 
complaint shall be read out by the member who presented it only after it has been seconded 
wherein no member shall speak with regard to that.
 17. (1)  it shall be lawful for a memorandum, petition, complaint presented under section 16 to be 
forwarded to a suitable committee by the chairman and decide future action based on a report 
obtained from the said committee, or take measures to examine evidence with regard to a 
complaint requiring appropriate investigation, or take measures to solve the problem when it 
relates to a matter solvable by the chairman.
  (2)  When the chairman intends to inquire evidences from any witnesses, it shall be lawful to inform 
the petitioner, complainant by the chairman to forward to secretary a list, at least prior to three 
days of the date fixed for examining evidences, containing those witnesses’ names, places of 
residence, occupations by the petitioner requiring those witnesses.
 18. (1) Questions relating to the affairs of the sabha may be asked from the chairman.
  (2) having prepared the relevant questions in writing, the member intending to forward the question 
shall handover the questions to secretary prior to seven days of the date scheduled to hold the 
sabha meeting excluding saturdays, sundays and Public holidays, in order to be included into 
the agenda. else, the motion should have been forwarded to the electronic mail address accepted 
by the sabha to forward motions and assigned to members for the same purpose.
  (3)  Questions received by the secretary shall be included into the agenda in the order they have 
been received.
  (4) Not more than one question shall be accepted to the agenda from a member for one sabha 
meeting.
  (5) A written response relevant to each question shall be read out by the chairman at the meeting.
  (6) A member shall not address the sabha on any motion, and even expression of opinion or 
presentation of facts shall not be included.
  (7)   A supplementary question may only be presented by the member who raised the question or any 
other member for the purpose of further explanation of a matter or incident for which a response 
has been given in the sabha.
(8)  The right to raise questions in the Sabha by a member shall be confined to the following limits:    
Questions 
presented 
expecting verbal 
responses from 
the chairman.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
6A
 (a) A question shall be limited to one subject
 (b) unless a name compulsorily required for the clarity in explanation of a problem, no other 
name or statement shall be mentioned in the question.
 (c) An argument, presumed decision, attributed allegation, a phrase detailing unnecessary 
information, or defamatory phrase shall not be included into the question.
 (d) If a question carries a statement, the member raising the question should have been satisfied 
as to the accuracy of the statement.
 (e) Questions under a point of law relating to a matter pending before courts of law shall not 
be raised.
 19. (1)  every motion shall be written and carry the signature of the member presenting it. unless the 
relevant motion, along with a request for inclusion of the motion in the agenda has been submitted 
to the secretary prior to 07 days excluding saturdays, sundays and Public holidays from the date 
scheduled for the sabha meeting or forwarded to the electronic mail address assigned, relevant 
motions shall not be included into the Agenda.
  (2) All the notices received relating to motions shall be date-stamped in the order they were received 
and numbered according to time they were received and documented.
  (3) Prior to including a motion into the agenda it needs to be submitted to the chairman and if 
the chairman is in the opinion that the relevant motion is inconsistent with the written law or 
relates to a matter non-authorized by the written law to be decided by the sabha, he shall order 
the relevant motion to be not included in the agenda and inform of such non-inclusion to the 
member who presented the motion with reasons for rejection.
  (4) every motion presented shall relate to a matter allowed by the written law to take a relevant 
decision by the sabha.
  (5) A motion presented with the intention of repealing any resolution which has been passed within 
the preceding six months to the date the sabha is scheduled to meet, or a motion yielding the 
same effect as any motion which has been negated within the preceding six months to the date the 
sabha is scheduled to meet shall not be included into the agenda unless it carries the signatures 
of four other members in addition to the signature of the member presenting the motion and the 
facts of which is mentioned in the heading specifically. Subsequent to transacting proper business 
relating to the said motion, no member shall have power to move a motion similar to that within 
the period of next six months.
  (6) No motion, unless proposed by other member on permission of the member presenting the motion 
and seconded, shall be deemed as submitted for debate.
  (7) Any member may, at the latter part of the debate, having risen from his seat and addressing the 
chair shall second the relevant motion subject to his right to speech and his right to reach into 
whatever decision relating to the vote-taking on the motion.
  (8) if any member intends to present a motion to the sabha of that day relating to compulsory 
matters requiring immediate attention and which has not been informed beforehand, unless such 
motion has been written, signed and submitted to the secretary along with a request made to the 
chairman, the chair shall not allow any such motion to be proposed, if it has not been included 
into the agenda.
Motions of which 
due notice has 
been given.

<!-- page 7 -->

7A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
  (9) every motion relating to recommendations included in the reports of committees which have 
been tabled at the sabha shall be included into the agenda and proposed to the sabha by the 
chairman. 
 20.  Any motion or amendment presented by a member to the sabha may be withdrawn by that 
member on the permission or sabha. such permission shall be devoid of a debate.
 21.  A motion withdrawn may be presented again to the agenda of a successive meeting.
 22. (1) A member expecting to present an amendment to a motion shall have prepared the amended-
motion in writing and handed over to the secretary.
  (2) every amendment shall relate to the motion in discussion at the time of presenting such motion.
  (3) every amendment-motion shall be read out before proposing it to the sabha.
  (4) No amendment-motion unless seconded shall be subjected to discussion.
  (5) A member, who has got an amendment properly seconded, shall be allowed consequently to 
speak with regard to that matter.
  (6) When an amendment has been proposed to a motion under discussion and seconded, second or 
subsequent amendments shall not be proposed unless proper action has been taken with regard to 
the first amendment. If an amendment got adopted, the amended- motion shall take the place of 
the initial motion and if there are further amendments, it shall relate to the said amended motion.
 23. Prior to presenting at the sabha a budget document or a supplementary budget document which 
has been prepared by the chairman under section 168 of Pradeshiya sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, 
each subject of the draft budget document or supplementary budget document shall be considered 
separately at a combined committee meeting assembled for that purpose.
 24. Considering the matters presented at the Combined Committee, a final budget document or a 
supplementary budget document prepared by the chairman shall be presented to the sabha by 
the chairman.
 25.  every subject of a budget document or supplementary budget document presented to the sabha 
should be considered separately and all the subjects or any subject considered thus may be 
amended minimally, rejected or supplemented with any subject by the sabha and every such 
amendment, rejection or subject-supplementation shall be executed as an amendment to the 
budget document or supplementary budget document, whereas all the provisions relating to 
amendments in these rules shall be applicable therein.
   even so, where all the subjects or any one subject of the budget document or supplementary 
budget document presented by the chairman will be rejected by the sabha, in place of such 
rejected subject or subjects, alternative subjects shall be proposed and passed by the sabha in 
conformation to the provisions of the written law.
 26.  to the disagreement of the chairman, when the majority of sabha enjoying voting rights have 
decided minor amendments, rejections or subject-supplementations relating to all the subjects or 
any subject of the budget document or supplementary budget document proposed for adoption 
by the chairman, such budget document or supplementary budget document shall be presented 
again by chairman at a successive sabha for adoption.
Withdrawal of 
motions.
Presenting again 
a motion that has 
been withdrawn.
Amending a 
motion.
council approval 
relating to budget 
documents.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
8A
 27.  No member may speak at a meeting to any motion or question alter it has been fully put by 
the chairman of the meeting. A motion or question is fully put when the voting has been taken 
thereon.
 28. (1)  the question shall be put by the chairman of the meeting, and the sabha may express its consent 
by a show of hands, else, any member shall call for a division and in that event the votes shall 
be taken by the secretary asking each member separately according to the order of precedence, 
how he desires to vole, and recording the vote accordingly.
  (2) On any question being put, either in Pradeshiya sabha, or in committee of the Whole Pradeshiya 
sabha, every member present shall, unless he declines to vote record his vote either for the ayes 
or the noes.
  (3) in the event of a member declining to vote, when a division has been called for, the secretary 
shall enter his name upon the minutes as having declined to vote.
  (4 ) Unless it has been facilitated to take vote under a secret ballot with regard to a specific opportune 
matter staled in the written law, vote shall be recorded by asking each member separately with 
regard to every other matter.
      29.(1) committee reports included in the Agenda and presented along with the agenda may be reviewed 
separately by the ordinary meeting.
  (2)  For the purpose of reviewing the committee reports, Pradeshiya sabha meeting may convert to a 
committee of the Whole Pradeshiya sabha as decided by the sabha according to the provisions 
of the relevant rule.
 30. (1) reports on Pradeshiya sabha’s revenue and expenditure of the preceding month and reports on 
the progress of revenue from January to the previous month, expenditure from January to the 
previous month should be reviewed by sabha according to the annual budget document.
  (2)  For business transaction of this section, Pradeshiya sabha may convert to a committee of the 
Whole Pradeshiya sabha.
  (3) Monthly statements relating to receipts and payments, progress reports on work and other 
documents specified by Pradeshiya Sabha may be presented before Pradeshiya Sabha for this 
purpose.
 31. (1) businesses included into the agenda after having decided by the sabha shall be completed by it 
in the same order they have been included into the agenda.
  (2) Whatever a matter not conforming to the order specified in the Agenda of the Sabha shall not 
be considered by the sabha under this section.
 32. (1) the chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members of the Pradeshiya 
sabha and also a casting vote if upon any question an equality of vole results.
  (2) When the Pradeshiya sabha is in a committee of the Whole Pradeshiya sabha, as provided under 
this rule, the chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members and also 
a casting vote if upon any question on equality of votes results.
 33.  it shall be competent for any member, who is in a minority, to record the reasons for his dissent 
from the opinion on of the majority, and such written dissent, if sent to the secretary, within one 
!
cessation of 
debate.
V oting and 
recording of votes.
committee report 
reviewing.
considering 
revenue and 
expenditure 
reports.
casting V ote of 
chairman.
Members 
dissenting.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
 27.  No member may speak at a meeting to any motion or question alter it has been fully put by 
the chairman of the meeting. A motion or question is fully put when the voting has been taken 
thereon.
 28. (1)  the question shall be put by the chairman of the meeting, and the sabha may express its consent 
by a show of hands, else, any member shall call for a division and in that event the votes shall 
be taken by the secretary asking each member separately according to the order of precedence, 
how he desires to vole, and recording the vote accordingly.
  (2) On any question being put, either in Pradeshiya sabha, or in committee of the Whole Pradeshiya 
sabha, every member present shall, unless he declines to vote record his vote either for the ayes 
or the noes.
  (3) in the event of a member declining to vote, when a division has been called for, the secretary 
shall enter his name upon the minutes as having declined to vote.
  (4 ) Unless it has been facilitated to take vote under a secret ballot with regard to a specific opportune 
matter staled in the written law, vote shall be recorded by asking each member separately with 
regard to every other matter.
      29.(1) committee reports included in the Agenda and presented along with the agenda may be reviewed 
separately by the ordinary meeting.
  (2)  For the purpose of reviewing the committee reports, Pradeshiya sabha meeting may convert to a 
committee of the Whole Pradeshiya sabha as decided by the sabha according to the provisions 
of the relevant rule.
 30. (1) reports on Pradeshiya sabha’s revenue and expenditure of the preceding month and reports on 
the progress of revenue from January to the previous month, expenditure from January to the 
previous month should be reviewed by sabha according to the annual budget document.
  (2)  For business transaction of this section, Pradeshiya sabha may convert to a committee of the 
Whole Pradeshiya sabha.
  (3) Monthly statements relating to receipts and payments, progress reports on work and other 
documents specified by Pradeshiya Sabha may be presented before Pradeshiya Sabha for this 
purpose.
 31. (1) businesses included into the agenda after having decided by the sabha shall be completed by it 
in the same order they have been included into the agenda.
  (2) Whatever a matter not conforming to the order specified in the Agenda of the Sabha shall not 
be considered by the sabha under this section.
 32. (1) the chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members of the Pradeshiya 
sabha and also a casting vote if upon any question an equality of vole results.
  (2) When the Pradeshiya sabha is in a committee of the Whole Pradeshiya sabha, as provided under 
this rule, the chairman shall have an original vote in common with the other members and also 
a casting vote if upon any question on equality of votes results.
 33.  it shall be competent for any member, who is in a minority, to record the reasons for his dissent 
from the opinion on of the majority, and such written dissent, if sent to the secretary, within one 
!
week of the meeting in question, shall be entered by the secretary at the end of his minutes of 
the proceedings.
 34.  unless resolved that the order of the day’s proceedings of the Pradeshiya sabha be otherwise, 
the business shall be discussed in the order specified in the Agenda.
 35. (1) it shall be the duty of the chairman of a given meeting to preserve order, and his decision on all 
disputes and points of order shall be final.
  (2) Any member of the Pradeshiya sabha deviating from these regulations at a meeting may 
immediately called to order by the chairman of the meeting of his own motion or an any other 
member of the Pradeshiya sabha rising to a point of order.
 36.  When the question of order has been stated, the member who raises it shall resume his seat, and 
no other member except by leave of the chairman or presiding member of the meeting shall 
speak till the chairman has decided the question. After which the member who was addressing 
the Pradeshiya sabha or committee of the Pradeshiya sabha at the time of question was raised 
shall be entitled to proceed with his speech, if he conforms to the chairman’s ruling or ruling of 
the committee of the sabha. if he does not conform, the chairman may refuse to allow him to 
proceed with his speech.
 37.  Any member who fails to explain or to retract any objectionable words used by him or to offer 
apologies for the use thereof to the satisfaction of the Pradeshiya sabha may be censured or 
otherwise dealt with as the Pradeshiya Sabha thinks fit.
 38.  When the chairman of a meeting has expressed his desire to speak, any member then speaking 
shall immediately resume his seat.
 39. (1)  the chairman of a meeting may name any member who disregards the authority of the chair, or 
abuses these rules of the Pradeshiya sabha by persistently and willfully obstructing the business 
of the Pradeshiya sabha, and the chairman may forthwith put the question on a motion being 
made by any member or from the chair (no amendment, adjournment or debate being allowed) 
“that such member be suspended from the service of the Pradeshiya sabha”.
  (2) if any such motion be carried and any member be suspended under this rule, this suspension on 
the first occasion shall continue for one month, on the second occasion for two months, and on 
the third or subsequent occasion for three months.
  (3) Not more than one member shall be named at the same time, unless several members present 
together have jointly disregarded the authority of the chair.
  (4)  if any member or members acting jointly who have been suspended under this rule from the 
service of the Pradeshiya sabha, shall refuse at any time during the period of suspension to obey 
the directions of the chairman of a meeting to withdraw from the precincts of the Pradeshiya 
sabha chamber, the chairman may direct such step be taken as are required to enforce his 
decision.
 40.  the chairman of a meeting after having called attention to the conduct of a member who persists 
in irrelevance or tedious repetition, either of his own arguments or of the arguments used by 
members in debate, may direct the member to discontinue his speech.
 41. (1) t he chairman of a meeting may order members whose conduct is grossly disorderly to withdraw 
immediately from the Pradeshiya sabha chamber during the remainder of that day’s sitting and 
may direct such steps to be taken as are required to enforce his order.
irrelevance 
or tedious 
repetition
disorderly 
conduct
Order of the day
Preservation of 
Order
decisions on 
questions of order
Member not 
explaining 
or retracting  
procedure.
When chairman 
speeks

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
10A
  (2)  if on any occasion the chairm an of a meeting deems that his powers under this are inadequate 
he may name such member or members in pursuance of the provisions of rule 39.
 42.  Members who are suspended under this rule or are directed to withdraw shall forthwith withdraw 
from the precincts of the Pradeshiya sabha chamber.
 43.  An adjournment of the discussion of any question may be moved by a member at any time and if 
seconded shall be forthwith put to the vote. in the event of a grave disorder arising at a meeting, 
the chairman of the meeting may, if he thinks it necessary to do so, adjourn the meeting without 
putting the question of adjournment to the Pradeshiya sabha or suspend the meeting for a time 
to be named by him.
 44.  in speaking to any preposition under consideration of the Pradeshiya sabha or a committee of 
the whole Pradeshiya sabha the following rules shall be strictly observed :
 (a) every member shall at a meeting except in committee address his observations to the 
chairman of the meeting and shall speak standing,
 (b) No member shall be interrupted while he is speaking unless he is speaking out of order,
 (c) When any member concludes his observations he shall resume his seat and any other 
member wishing to address the Pradeshiya sabha may then speak,
 (d) A member shall not read his speech, but he may read extracts from written or printed papers 
in support of his arguments,
 (e) if two members speak or desire to speak at the same time at a meeting the chairman of 
the meeting shall call on the member who first catches his eye,
 (f) Every member shall confine his observations to the subject under consideration,
 (g) No member shall impute improper motives to any other member,
 (h) All remarks of a personal nature shall be avoided,
 (i) A member shall speak to the question before the Pradeshiya sabha or any amendment 
proposed thereto.
 (j) No member shall speak more than once on any proposition before the Pradeshiya sabha 
except in explanation to order, or when the Pradeshiya sabha is in committee.
 (k) by the indulgence of the Pradeshiya sabha, a member may explain matters of a personal 
nature, although there is no question before the sabha, but such matters may not be debated 
and he must confute himself  strictly to the vindication of his own conduct.
 (l) t he mover of any resolution or motion may reply after all the members present have had an 
opportunity of addressing the Pradeshiya sabha and before the question is put, but he shall 
strictly confine himself to answering previous speakers, and shall not introduce any new 
matter into the debate. the right to reply shall not extend to the mover of an amendment.
duty to obey 
order of 
suspension or 
withdrawal.
Power to Adjourn.
rule for members’ 
speaking.

<!-- page 11 -->

11A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
  45. the Pradeshiya sabha may at any time resolve itself into a committee of the Whole Pradeshiya 
sabha and on its resuming the result of its deliberations shall be dealt with by the Pradeshiya 
sabha.
   it shall be competent for any member at any stage of any discussion in a committee of the whole 
Pradeshiya sabha to move that the Pradeshiya sabha to resume. the question shall be put to the 
vote by the chairman of the committee and, if the motion is carried, the Pradeshiya sabha must 
immediately resume from committee.
 46. (1)  the Pradeshiya sabha shall appoint such Advisory committees subject to the provisions stated 
in the original written law.
  (2) No such committee shall lake any proceedings after the expiration of the period for which it has 
been appointed.
  (3) The Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the ex-officio Chairman of a Financial and Policy 
committee appointed by the Pradeshiya sabha.
  (4) the quorum for the meetings of every such committee shall be one-third of the number of 
members of the committee in office on the date of the meeting. When one-third of such number 
is an integer and fraction, the integer immediately higher to that integer and fraction shall be 
deemed to be one-third for the purpose of this rule.
  (5) in the occasion where a combined meeting is held with the committee on Finance appointed by 
the Pradeshiya sabha, the chairman of Pradeshiya sabha shall chair the combined meeting and 
convening of a combined meeting should be carried out by the chairman.
  (6) unless there is a one third of quorum present at a combined committee meeting that comprises 
two committees or more than that and unless one member of each committee in the combined 
meeting has made their presence, no proceedings shall take place at such a combined committee 
meeting.
  (7) in the absence of the chairman at a meeting of any committee, the members shall choose one 
of their members to preside, and such member shall for that meeting have all the powers of the 
chairman.
  (8) When a committee shall have agreed to a report, the report shall be signed by all the members 
thereof and shall together with the minutes of proceedings, be submitted to the Pradeshiya sabha.
  (9) the Press shall be excluded from all meetings of Advisory committees.
 47.  All members shall record their attendance when they attend meetings of the Pradeshiya sabha 
or committee, in an Attendance register maintained by the secretary for this purpose and kept 
in his custody.
 48.  rules relating to conducting of Pradeshiya sabha meetings, which were in enforcement till the 
day immediately previous to the date these rules came into enforcement 
i.e. Pradeshiya sabha 
(Procedure for the conduct of business at Meetings) rules of 1988, shall be repealed hereby.
 49.  unless other interpretation relating to text is required, in these rules:
   “Advisory committee” means all the committees appointed under the Pradeshiya sabha Act, 
No. 15 of 1987
committee of the 
Whole Pradeshiya 
sabha.
Advisory 
committee.
Attendance.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'10'22
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 22.10.2020
12A
   “chairman” means the chairman appointed to Pradeshiya sabha of .............
   “sabha” means the Pradeshiya sabha of ............  established under Pradeshiya sabha Act,  
No. 15 of 1987.
 50.  in case of any inconsistency between sinhala and english/ tamil texts of this rule, sinhala text 
shall prevail.
inconsistency 
among texts
PRinteD at the DePaRtMent oF GoVeRnMent PRintinG,  sRi lanka.