

<!-- page 1 -->

759 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
759
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 761
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 762
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th August, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 27th July, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,509 _ 2007 ¡ï“åàÌà”º 03 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .08.03
No. 1,509 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 03, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
760
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

761 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
Posts - Vacant
RECRUITMENT OF POLICE CONSTABLE FOR THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT
AS per the Government Gazette Notification Number 1489 of
16.03.2007 in connection with the above Recruitment, the closing
date of applications has been extended by 03 months till 16.07.2007,
which was extended by 03 months is further extended till 16.10.2007.
Inspector - General of Police.
08-75
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
Nuwara Eliya District
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages,
Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02.Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births,
Deaths and Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in
the area.
03.Both male and female can apply for these posts.
04.Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more
than 65 years of age.
05.Applicants should be married.
06.Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could
be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as District
Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries
Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07.Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given
in the Schedule on or before 03rd September, 2007.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
10th July, 2007.
THE SCHEDULE
Divisional Division and Post Address to
District Secretary's for which which
Division applications applications
are called should be
sent
Nuwara Eliya Kothmale Post of Registrar ofDistrict
Marriages Secretary/ Addi.
  (Kandyan/Ordinary) Registrar
(Sinhala) of   General,
Kothmale Division District
and Births and   Secretariat,
Deaths of Nuwara Eliya.
Medapane
Division.   
08-82/1
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Additional Registrars of Merriages (Ordinary)
Galle District
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages,
Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Briths,
Deaths and Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the
area.
03. Both male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than
65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could
be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as District
Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secertaries
Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Applications forms are obtainable from the offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registeries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in
the Schedule on or before 03.09.2007.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main street, Colombo 11,
10th July, 2007.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
762
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s applications are called application should be
Division sent
Galle Hikkaduwa Post of Additional Registrar of District Secretary/
Marriages (Ordinary) of Wellabada Pattu Addi. Registrar General
Division. District Secretariat Galle.
08-82/2
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME AFFAIRS
Registrar General’s Department
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF REGISTRARS
GRADE III OF THE REGISTRARS' SERVICE
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the Competitive Examination for Recruitment
to the Posts of Registrar Grade III of the Registrars’ Service in the Registrar General’s Department.
2. Examination.- This Examination will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner General of Examinations in November of 2007.
The Head of Department holds rights to postpone or cancel the examination.
3. Conditions of Service.- Recruitments to the Grade III posts of the Registrars’ Service will be made subject to the general
conditions governing appointments in the public service and on the following conditions :-
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected candidates should make contribution to the Widow/
Widower and Orphans Pension Fund. They are also subject to the Establishment Code and Financial
Regulations.
(ii) Sections 10 to 12 of chapter 11 of the Establishment Code will also apply on this regard.
(iii) An Officer appointed to service should undergo a training as determined by the secretary of the relevant
Ministry.
(iv) New entrant officer to the public service will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years.
(v) Candidates who are already in public service will be appointed on acting basis for one year.
(vi) The candidates should pass the written Efficiency Bar Examination before lapse of 3 years from appointment.
No exemption from this Efficiency bar will be granted on the basis of age.
(vii) On confirmation in the post the officers selected from the Public Service will cease to be a member of the
former service and will have no right of reversion to that service.
4. Salary Scale.- MN-4-2006. Rs. 14,850 – 10 x 185 – Rs. 16,700. (Circular 6/2006)
5. Age Limit.- Candidates should be less than 22 years as on the date of completion of required qualification and not
more that 45 years. The upper age limit will not apply to the officers already in the Public Service.
6. Educational Qualifications.- The following qualifications should have been completed as at 3rd September 2007.

<!-- page 5 -->

763 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
6.1 External Candidates.- Graduates from the recognized Universities.
6.2 Internal Candidates :
(a) Be a Class – I Officer of the Management Assistants’ Service with a satisfactory service of 5 years
proceding the closing date of applications ;
or
(b) Be a class – II Officer of the Management Assistants’ Service with a service period of 8 years out of which
5 years should be satisfactory service as states above.
Note : “Satisfactory Service” in this paragraph means the period of 5 years preceding from the date of
calling for applications during which the candidate had earned all increments and he/she has not been
subject to any disciplinary punishment excluding warning.
7. Method of recruitment :
(i) External Candidates
(ii)Internal Candidates
Selections will be made at an interview held for highest scorers of the Competitive Examination conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examination for the qualified candidates who were selected after calling for applications through a
notice in the Government Gazette/Public Newspapers.
8. Examination Fee.- Examination fee is Rs. 300/. The receipt obtained on payment of this fee to the District/
Divisional Secretariat under Revenue Head No. 4000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General Examination before the closing
date of applications should be pasted in the relevant place given in the application. This fee is not refundable. Retaining a
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate will be useful in future.
9. Method of application :
(a) The application should be in conformity with the specimen appended to this notice. Name of Examination
indicated at the top of the specimen application should be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the
Sinhala application and should be written in English in addition to Tamil in the Tamil application. It should be
prepared on a paper size 8 1/2" x 12" using its both sides. Nos 1-7 in the specimen application should be include
in page 1 and the rest in page.
(b) The application should be filled in the language in which the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
(c) The applications for the post should be sent under the registered cover to the Commissioner General of
Examinations Sri Lanka, Department of Examinations, Palawatta, Battaramulla on or before the 3rd September
2007. “Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of Grade III Registrars of the Registrars Service”
should be clearly indicated on the top left corner of the envelope containing the application, Applications
received after this date will not accepted.
Note.- Candidates in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the
respective Heads of their Department/Organization.
(d) Applications which are not complete in every respect may be rejected. No complaints regarding lost or delayed
applications in the post will be entertained.
(e) Receipt of an application will not be acknowledged. Admission cards will be sent to the candidates by the
Commissioner General of Examination. A candidate who does not receive the admission card seven days
before the examination should immediately notify the Commissioner General of Examinations, with the following
details :

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
764
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full name of the Candidate ;
(iv) Address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, Registration Number and Post Office.
10. Admission to the Examination Centre :
(i) A candidate presenting himself/herself for the examination must produce  his/her Admission in which his/her
signature has been duly attested to the Head of the Examination Centre. A candidate who fails to do so will
not be permitted to sit for the examination.
(ii)Every candidate should sit the examination at the Examination hall assigned to him and follow the general
rules to be observed by the candidates.
(iii)The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite
qualifications to sit for the examination.
11. Identity of the Candidate.– A candidate must prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of the Head of Examination
Centre for each subject he/she offers. One of the following documents will only be accepted for this purpose.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport issued not more than three years prior to the date of examination.
12. Furnishing the False Information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be
cancelled at any stage prior to or during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a Candidate, who is in
the Public Service, is found to be false with his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any important fact, he will be liable
to dismissal from the Public Service.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
14. Method of Examination :
(i) Medium  :
(a) The candidate may apply for the Examination in one of the three mediums. Ie; Sinhala, Tamil and English.
(b) Every candidate should answer the question papers in the language which is stated in the application.
(c) No candidates will be allowed to change the medium of language indicated in his/her application.
(ii)Subjects and syllabus.– An examination which consists of the following subjects.
Subject Time Marks
1. Language & Essay
(Sinhala/Tamil) 1.00hr 100
2. Intelligence 1.00hr 100
3. General Knowledge 1.00hr 100
4. English Language 1.00hr 100
1. The Language and Essay question paper which is prepared to test skills and ability includes letter writing,
preparing of schedules and hand writing etc.

<!-- page 7 -->

765 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
2. Intelligence will be measured through an examination which consists of a question paper designed to test the
candidate’s rational and analytical skills and ability to arrive at rational conclusions in association with non-verbal clues.
3. General knowledge will also be measured through an examination which consists of a question paper designed to
test candidate’s knowledge about social and cultural styles of Sri Lanka, locally and internationally important current affairs
and scientific and technical development.
4. Question paper on English language which expects a level of knowledge equal to G. C. E. (O/L) Examination will test
the candidates ability to understand a paragraph, prepare a short letter and translate a simple Sinhala/Tamil paragraph into
English.
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
Colombo 11.
Specimen Application Form
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME AFF AIRS
Registrar General’s Department
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of Registrars
Grade III of the Registrar Service
For official use only
Medium of Examination :
(Write the relevant Number in the cage)
(Sinhala – 2) (Tamil – 3) English – 4)
1. (i) Last name followed by initials (in English Block Capitals) :–––––.
(ii)Names denoted by initials (in English Block Capitals) :–––––.
2. Full Address :
(i) Private (in English Block Capitals) Ex: SILV A, A.B. :–––––.
(ii)Official (in English Block Capitals) :–––––.
Admission cards will be posted to these address.
(Officers who are in Public Service/Provincial Public Service must write their official addresses. Any change in address
should be informed immediately.)
3. (i)Date of Birth : Year :                              Month :                       Date :
(ii)Age as at 3rd September 2007 : Years :                     Months :                       Days :
4. Sex :
Female – 1
Male – 0 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
5. Civil Status :
Married – 2
Unmarried – 1 (W rite the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
766
6. National Identity Card No. :
7. Under which paragraph of the notice of examination do you qualify to apply for the examination ? 6:1/6:2 (delete words
inapplicable).
7:1 If under para 6:1 :
Degree :………………………………………… Year conferred :–––––.
(a photocopy of the Degree certificate should be attached)
7:2 If under Para 6:2 :
(i) Date of appointment to Public Management Assistant’s Service (GCS) :–––––.
(ii)Present class and the date of appointment to that class :–––––.
8. Paste the Cash receipt here firmly :
9. Certificate of the Candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief all the information given in this form is true and I have affixed cash
receipt No. ………………. dated in payment of the Examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the
examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to or after the Examination if it is found that I
am ineligible according to the regulations of the Examination or to dismiss me from the post without compensation if the
inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
……………………………….,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––.
Attestation
I do hereby certify that Mr. / Mrs. / Miss …………………………………………………………………………………….
who is an officer of my office personally known to me signed before me on ……………………….. 2007.
………………………………………,
Signature of Attesting Officer.
Name :–––––.
Designation :–––––.
Address :–––––.
Date :–––––.
Attestation :
In case of Government servants, the signature can be attested by the Head of Department or the relevant Staff Officer.
In case of external candidates signature can be attested by principal of an approved school, a retired Principal of such school,
Justice of the peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-law, an officer of the public or Local Government Service  drawing an
annual consolidated salary of Rs. 230,060/- or over, Notary Public, a Chief Priest, or a Pries in charge of a religious institution.

<!-- page 9 -->

767 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
Certificate of the Head of Department
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………………………………………………………………………….. is
employed in this Department and that his/her work and conduct are satisfactory. He/She fulfills the requirement stated in the
relevant notification calling for applications to apply for this examination. No penalty whatsoever has been imposed on him/
her other than warning. He/She can/cannot be released from service, if selected.
………………………………………,
Signature of Head of Department.
Name and Designation :–––––.
Address :–––––.
Telephone No. :–––––.
Date :–––––.
08-107

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
768
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 11 -->

769 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .08.03
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2007
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
The  Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
AUGUST 03.08.2007 Friday — 20.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
10.08.2007 Friday –– 27.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
17.08.2007 Friday –– 03.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
24.08.2007 Friday –– 10.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
31.08.2007 Friday –– 17.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 07.09.2007 Friday — 24.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
14.09.2007 Friday –– 31.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
21.09.2007 Friday –– 07.09.2007 Friday 12 noon
28.09.2007 Friday –– 14.09.2007 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 05.10.2007 Friday — 21.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
12.10.2007 Friday –– 28.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
19.10.2007 Friday –– 05.10.2007 Friday 12 noon
26.10.2007 Friday –– 12.10.2007 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI  LANKA.