

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 29.75 Postage : Rs. 9.00
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
PUBLIC  UTILITIES  COMMISSION  OF
SRI LANKA  ACT, No. 35 OF 2002
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 20, 2002
[Certified on 20th December, 2002]
Printed on the Order of Government


<!-- page 2 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
1
[Certified on 20th December, 2002]
L. D. – O. 44/2002.
A N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  PUBLIC
U TILITIES  COMMISSION  OF  SRI LANKA  TO  REGULATE  CERTAIN
UTILITIES  INDUSTRIES  PURSUANT  TO  A  COHERENT  NA TIONAL  POLICY ;
AND  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
PART 1
PRELIMINARY
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Public Utilities
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002 and shall come
into operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette. Different dates may be
appointed in respect of different provisions of this Act.
(2) This Act shall apply to  the public utilities industries
set out in the Schedule to this Act, the regulation of which is
vested in or assigned to the Public Utilities Commission of
Sri Lanka.
(3) Parliament may by resolution amend the Schedule
to the Act by adding thereto any utilities industry or removing
therefrom any pubic utilities industry, where such addition or
removal is considered necessary or expedient in the public
interest.
PART II
PUBLIC  UTILITIES COMMISSION  OF  SRI LANKA
2. (1) There shall be established a Commission, which
shall be called the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”).
Establishment of
the Public Utilities
Commission of
Sri Lanka.
Short title, date of
operation and
application.
2—H 016581 — 5,650 (2002/09)

<!-- page 3 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
2
Members of the
Commission.
Duties of the
Constitutional
Council under this
Act.
(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal, and may sue and be sued in such name.
3. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 5, the
Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Constitutional Council,
of whom—
(a) at least one member shall be a person who is
qualified, and has experience, in the field of
engineering ;
(b) at least one other member shall be a person who is
qualified, and has experience in the field of law ;
and
(c) at least one other member shall be a person who is
qualified, and has experience in the field of business
management.
(2)  The first members of the Commission shall be
appointed within four months of the coming into operation
of this Part and any subsequent vacancy in the Commission
shall be filled within three months of the occurrence of the
vacancy.
4. (1) The Constitutional Council shall, before giving its
concurrence to the appointment of any person as a member
of the Commission under this Act, satisfy itself that such
person is qualified for appointment under subsection (1) of
section 5 and is not disqualified for appointment under
subsection (2) of section 5.
(2) Decisions of the Constitutional Council to give its
concurrence for appointment of persons as members of the
Commission shall be by majority vote.
(3) The Constitutional Council may require any person
being considered for appointment as a member under section
3 to furnish it with such information as it may require for the
purpose of discharging its functions under subsection (1).

<!-- page 4 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
3
(4) The Minister shall, within one month from the date
of occurrence of a vacancy in the Commission, transmit to
the Constitutional Council for its concurrence, names of
persons in the order of preference, to be appointed as
Commissioner. The Constitutional Council, where it concurs
as regards the persons to be appointed as members of the
Commission, shall express its concurrence to the Minister at
least one month prior to the date before which the Minister is
required to make such appointments.
5.  (1) The members of the Commission shall be persons
with ability and integrity and have shown capacity in
addressing problems relating to, engineering, law, economics,
business management, accountancy or administration—
(2) A Person shall be disqualified from being appointed,
or continuing as a member of the Commission if—
(a) he or she is not a citizen of Sri Lanka ; or
(b) he or she has been convicted of a criminal
offence ; or
(c) he or she is, or has been an undischarged bankrupt
or has made any arrangement with his or her
creditors ; or
(d) he or she is, or has been within three years prior to
his or her nomination for appointment, a member of
Parliament ; or
(e) he or she is a member of a Provincial Council or any
local authority ; or
(f) he or she holds any post in any political party
recognized for the purposes of parliamentary
elections ; or
(g) he or she or a connected person, has any financial or
other interest amounting to a conflict of interest,
directly or indirectly, in any company or undertaking
which carries on any public utilities industry.
Qualifications &c.
of members of the
Commission.

<!-- page 5 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
4
Resignation,
removal and term
of office, of
members of the
Commission.
6. (1) A member of the Commission may resign from
office by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister, and
such resignation shall take effect from the date on which the
resignation is accepted in writing by the Minister.
(2) The Minister may remove a member of the
Commission from office after an address of Parliament
supported by a majority of the total number of members of
Parliament (including those not present) has been presented
to the Minister for such removal, after compliance with the
procedure set out in section 7.
(3) The term of office of a member of the Commission
shall be five years from the date of appointment :
Provided however, that the first members of the
Commission, other than the member who is appointed as the
Chairman, shall hold office for periods of four, three, two
years and one year respectively, as the Minister shall
determine.
(4) Where a member of the Commission vacates office
by death, resignation or other cause, the Minister shall, with
the concurrence of the Constitutional Council, appoint, having
regard to the provisions of sections 5 and 7, another suitable
person in his or her place, and the person so appointed shall
hold office for the remainder of the terms of office of the
member whom he or she succeeds.
(5) A member of the Commission whose term of office is
due to end otherwise than by removal shall be eligible for
reappointment for not more than one further term of office
(whether concecutive or otherwise).
(6) Members of the Commission shall be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by a resolution of
Parliament and such remuneration shall be charged to the Fund
of the Commission. Members of the Commission shall
exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and
functions of the commission on a part-time basis, in
accordance with the terms and conditions of their respective
letters of appointment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
5
(7) A person shall not, for a period of three years after he
or she ceases to be a member of the Commission, acquire,
hold or maintain, directly or indirectly, any office,
employment, consultancy arrangement or business in Sri
Lanka where he or she may be liable to use or disclose
information acquired by him or her in the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers, duties and functions
of the Commission, and if he or she acquires any such interests
involuntarily or by way of succession or testamentary
disposition, he or she shall divest himself or herself of such
interest, within two months of the acquisition of such interest.
7. The Minister shall not remove a member of the
Commission from office unless—
(a) the Minister has sent a notice to the member that it
is proposed to remove such member from office on
any one or more of the following grounds, namely,
that he or she—
(i) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any
arrangement with his or her creditors; or
(ii) is found or declared to be of unsound mind
under any law in force in Sri Lanka; or
(iii)has ceased to be qualified to continue as a
member, or is disqualified from continuing as
a member ; or
(iv) has refused or failed to discharge his or her
functions for a period of three months or more;
or
(v) is guilty of misbehavior,
accompanied by full particulars relating to the
proposed grounds for removal, and has afforded the
member an opportunity of making representations
against the proposed removal ;
Procedure for
removal of
member from
office.

<!-- page 7 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
6
Chairman of the
Commission.
(b) the Minister, having considered any representations
made by the member, has reported to Parliament,
that the proposed removal of the member, on the
grounds specified in the notice sent to the member
is justified and has forwarded, together with the
report, the representations made by the member, to
Parliament;
(c) Parliament, having considered the report of the
Minister and the representations made by the
member, has passed an address, supported by a
majority of the total number of members of
Parliament (including those not present), for such
removal.
8. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of the members of
the Commission to be the Chairman of the Commission
(hereinafter referred to as “The Chairman”).
(2) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman
by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister and the
resignation shall take effect from the date on which it is
accepted, in writing, by the Minister.
(3) The Chairman shall cease to be the Chairman if he or
she is removed from the office of member of the Commission
under section 6.
(4) The term of office of the Chairman shall be five years.
(5) The Chairman shall not, on vacation of the office of
Chairman, be eligible for reappointment as Chairman.
(6) Without prejudice to the provisions of section 7, the
Chairman shall, within one month of his or her appointment,
nominate a member in writing, to be the Deputy Chairman to
discharge the functions of the Chairman during his absence
from office due to illness or any other cause.

<!-- page 8 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
7
Meetings of the
Commission.
9. (1) The Chairman shall summon all meetings of the
Commission. Any member of the Commission may, by written
notice, request the Chairman to call a meeting of the
Commission and the Chairman shall not, otherwise than for
good reason, refuse to do so.
(2) The Commission may decide any matter, which is
determined by the Chairman to be urgent with the agreement
of the majority of the members.
(3) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Commission and in the absence of the Chairman at any
meeting, the Deputy Chairman shall preside at such meeting.
(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall be
three members including the Chairman. In the absence of the
Chairman, the quorum shall be three members including the
Deputy Chairman.
(5) All matters for decision by the Commission shall be
decided by a majority of the votes of the members of the
Commission. The decision supported by the votes of a
majority of the members of the Commission on any matter,
shall be deemed to be the decision of the Commission on that
matter.
(6) All decisions of the Commission, supported by
reasons, shall be in writing and the seal of the Commission
affixed thereto in accordance with paragraph  (c)  of
section 10.
(7) In case there is an equality of votes on any matter to
be decided by the Commission, the Chairman shall have a
casting vote.
(8) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the Commission may regulate the procedure in regard to the
meetings of the Commission and the transaction of business
at such meetings.

<!-- page 9 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
8
Seal of the
Commission.
(9) No act, decision or proceeding of the Commission
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of any vacancy in its membership or defect in the appointment
of any member thereof.
10. The seal of the Commission—
(a) shall be determined by the Commission and may be
altered in such manner as may be determined by the
Commission;
(b) shall be in the custody of such person as the
Commission may determine from time to time;
(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or document
except with the sanction of the Commission and in
the presence of two members of the Commission
who shall sign the instrument or document in token
of their presence.
PART III
A
PPOINTMENT  OF  DIRECTOR -GENERAL , DEPUTY  DIRECTORS -
G ENERAL  AND  OTHERS  STAFF
11. (1) The Commission shall within three months of
the appointment of its first members, and thereafter whenever
a vacancy arises, appoint a person to be the Director-General
of the Commission (hereinafter referred to as the “Director-
General”) who shall be the Chief Executive officer of the
Commission. The Commission shall determine the conditions
of employment including remuneration of the Director-
General.
(2) The Commission may appoint one or more Deputy
Directors-General as it considers necessary with responsibility
for a specific industry.
Director-General
and Deputy
Directors-General
of the
Commission.

<!-- page 10 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
9
(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of section 5
and subsection (7) of section 6 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply
in relation to the appointments of the Director-General and
the Deputy Directors-General.
(4) The Director-General shall, subject to the general
direction and control of the Commission, be charged with the
conduct of the day to day activities of the Commission
required for the exercise of its powers, performance of its
duties and functions and the administration and control of
the staff of the Commission.
(5) The Commission may delegate to the Director-General
only its decision making powers in relation to the
administration and control of its staff other than those
concerning the Director-General.
(6) The Director-General shall attend meetings of
Commission. However, he shall not attend a meeting during
such time any matter relating to him or her or to the
appointment of a successor to him or her is discussed. He
shall not be entitled to vote at such meetings.
(7) The Director-General may, with the approval of the
Commission, delegate to a Deputy Director-General or any
staff of the Commission, any power, function or duty which
has been validly delegated to him or her, except the power of
Delegation conferred on him or her by this section, and such
Deputy or staff shall exercise such powers and perform such
functions and discharge such duties in accordance with a
general or specific direction of the Director-General.
(8) The Commission may remove from office the Director-
General or any Deputy Director-General appointed under
subsection (1) or (2), as the case may be.

<!-- page 11 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
10
Staff of the
Commission.
Official secrecy.
12.  (1) The Commission—
(a) shall appoint a Secretary to undertake a corporate
secretarial role inter alia;
(b) may appoint such other staff as it considers necessary
for the exercise of its powers and performance of its
functions and duties;
(c) may dismiss and exercise disciplinary control over
such staff;
(d) shall fix the rates at which such staff shall be
remunerated;
(e) shall determine the terms and conditions of service
of such staff; and
(f) may establish and regulate provident funds or
schemes for the benefit of such staff and make
contributions to any  such funds or schemes from
the Fund of the Commission
(2)  Staff shall include the Director-General and Deputy
Directors-General for the purpose of this section.
(3) The Commission may make rules in respect of all or
any of the matters referred to in subsection (1).
13. (1) Every member of the Commission, the Secretary
the Director-General, Deputy Director-General (if any), and
other Staff of the  Commission shall, before taking up office,
sign a declaration of secrecy in such form, in such manner
and before such authority as may be prescribed by the Minister.
All agents, consultants and advisors of the Commission shall
be required by the Commission to adhere to such secrecy
requirements.

<!-- page 12 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
11
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction
after sumary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment
of either description for a period  not exceeding six months
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
PART IV
O
BJECTIVES , POWERS  AND  FUNCTIONS
14. (1) The Commission shall exercise, perform and
discharge its powers, functions and duties under this Act and
any other industry Act reasonably with fairness, impartiality
and independence and in a manner that is timely, transparent,
objective and consistent with this Act and such other Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (1),
the Commission shall exercise, perform and discharge the
powers, functions and duties conferred on or assigned to it
by or under this Act and any other industry Act, in a manner
which it considers is best calculated—
(a) to protect the interests of all consumers;
(b) to promote competition;
(c) to promote efficiency in both the operations of, and
capital investment in, public utilities industries;
(d) to promote an efficient allocation of resources in
public utilities industries;
(e) to promote safety and service quality in public
utilities industries;
(f) to benchmark, where feasible, the utilities services
as against international standards; and
(g) to ensure that price controlled entities acting
efficiently, do not find it unduly difficult in financing
their public utilities industries.
Objectives of the
Commission.

<!-- page 13 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
12
Powers of the
Commission to
require
information.
15. (1) The Commission shall have the following powers
as reasonably required to carry out its functions :—
(a) to request any person, including a regulated entity,
to furnish to the Commission periodically, or as and
when required by the Commission, any information,
books, accounts or other documents which are
required by the Commission and are in the custody
or under the control of that person.
(b) to summon to attend at a public hearing held under
section 18 any person who, in the opinion of the
Commission, may be able to give evidence in relation
to any matter before the Commission.
(2) Any person to whom a request for information has been
made under this section shall duly furnish the Commission
with the information, books, accounts or other documents.
(3) Any person who without reasonable excuse fails to
furnish any information, books accounts or other documents
required of him or her by the Commission under subsection
(2), shall be guilty of an offence and upon conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding one million rupees and where the offence is a
continuing offence, to an additional fine of fifty thousand
rupees for each day during which such offence continues :
Provided however, that a person referred to in this section
shall not be compelled to produce a document which he or
she could not be compelled to produce in civil proceedings
before a court or to furnish information which he or she could
not be compelled to give in evidence in any such proceedings.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), any
information with respect to any particular business which—
(a) has been obtained under or by virtue of any of the
provisions of this Part;

<!-- page 14 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
13
General powers of
the Commission.
(b) relates to the affairs of any individual or to any
particular business; and
(c) is stated in writing, at the time of provisions, to be
confidential or commercially sensitive,
shall not, during the lifetime of that individual or for so
long as that business continues to be carried on, be
disclosed by the Commission without the written consent
of the individual or business.
(5) Subsection (4) shall not apply to any disclosure of
information—
(a) which is required by a Court of law; or
(b) if the Commission is of the opinion that the
disclosure is required for the public benefit; or
(c) which is made for the purpose of enabling a licensee
to comply with a condition of its license under or by
virtue of which it is required to disclose the
information to another person.
For the purpose of this Act any information contained in
an electronic record, printed on a paper, stored, recorded or
copied in optical or magnetic media and produced by whatever
means, shall be deemed to be also a document.
16. Without prejudice to the powers expressly conferred
on the Commission by this Act, the Commission shall have
the power—
(a) to engage, subject to section 13, from time to time
the services of consultants or advisors as it may
consider necessary to assist in the discharge of its
functions and remunerate such persons out of the
Fund of the Commission in such manner and at such
rates as may be determined by the Commission;

<!-- page 15 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
14
Functions of the
Commission.
(b) to enter into agreements with regulated entities;
(c) to acquire and hold property movable and
immovable, and to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange,
or otherwise dispose of, the same;
(d) to enter into such contracts as may be necessary for
the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions;
(e) to acquire such right, privileges, licences and
authorities as may be necessary for the effective
discharge of its functions ;
(f) to levy fees ; and
(g) generally to do all such other acts and things as are
incidental to or consequential upon the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act and any other industry Act.
17. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission
shall, among other things,—
(a) exercise, perform and discharge the powers, functions
and duties conferred on or assigned  to the Commission
by or under this Act or any industry Act ;
(b) consult, to the extent the Commission considers
appropriate, any person or group who or which may
be affected, or likely to be affected, by the decisions
of the Commission ;
(c) advise the Government, as the Commission deems
appropriate, on all matters concernig any industry
falling within the purview of this Act ;
(d) collect, record and disseminate, subject to section
15 (4), information concerning any public utilities
industries ;

<!-- page 16 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
15
(e) prepare within six months of its establishment a
regulatory manual containing a code of good practice
governing the functions of the Commission and
revise it as and when required ;
(f) exercise licensing, regulatory and inspection
functions in respect of all matters provided for in
any industry Act ;
(g) enforce the provisions of licences, contracts and
other instruments issued under the authority of any
industry Act ;
(h) regulate tariffs and other charges levied by regulated
entities where required by any industry Act ;
(i) determine by mediation disputes arising in any public
utilities industry ;
(j) set and enforce technical and other standards relating
to the safety, quality, continuity and reliability of the
public utilities industries ; and
(k) undertake such other incidental or ancillary activities
which the Commission may consider appropriate for
the effective discharge of any of its functions.
18. (1) The Commission may, in discharging the functions
assigned to it by or under this Act or any other industry Act,
and where it deems necessary in the public interest hold a
public hearing in order to investigate or determine any matter.
The public hearing shall be held in any manner not inconsistent
with the principles of natural justice.
(2) The Commission shall, for the purposes of a public
hearing referred to in subsection (1), have the power–
(a) to procure and receive all such evidence, written or
oral and to examine all such persons as witnesses,
as the Commission may think necessaey or desirable
to procure or examine ;
Public hearing.

<!-- page 17 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
16
(b) to require the evidence (whether written or oral) of
any witness to be given on oath or affirmation and
to administer or cause to be administered by an
officer authorized in that behalf by the Commission,
an oath or affirmation to every such witness ;
(c) to summon any person residing in Sri Lanka to attend
a public hearing of the Commission to give evidence
or produce any document or other thing in his or her
possession and to examine him or her as a witness
or to require him or her to produce any document or
other thing in his or her possession ;
(d) to admit any evidence, whether written or oral
notwithstanding the provisions contained in the
Evidence Ordinance.”
(3) Any person who has been summoned or whose
interests are likely to be affected by any matter before the
Commission may appear in person or by authorized
representative.
(4) Every person who gives evidence at such public
hearing shall, in respect of such evidence, be entitled to all
the privileges to which a witness giving evidence before a
court of law is entitled in respect of evidence given by him or
her before such court.
(5) The proceedings at such a pubic hearing shall be open
to the public and the minutes, including a record of the
evidence given and a statement of all facts taken into
consideration, shall be kept by the Commission and made
available to the public.
(6) Every offence of contempt committed against, or in
disrespect of, the authority of the Commission shall be
punishable by the Court of Appeal as though it were an offence
of contempt committed against, or in disrespect of the
authority of that Court, and the Court of Appeal is hereby
vested with jurisdiction to try every such offence.

<!-- page 18 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
17
(7) An act done or ommitted to be done in relation to the
Commission, whether in the presence of the Commission,  or
otherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt against, or
in disrespect of, the authority of the Commission, if such act
would, if done or omitted to be done in relation to the Court
of Appeal have constituted an offence of contempt against,
or in disrespect of, the authority of such Court.
(8) Any person–
(a) who fails without cause to appear before the
Commission at the time and place mentioned in the
summons issued by the Commission ; or
(b) who refuses to be sworn, or affirmed or having been
duly sworn or affirmed refuses or fails without cause
to answer any question lawfully ;
(c) who refuses or fails without cause, to produce or
show to the Commission any document or other thing
which is in his or her possession or power and which
is in the opinion of the Commission necessary for
arriving at the truth of the matter being inquired into
by the Commission,
shall be guilty of the offence of contempt against, or in
disrespect of the authority of the Commission.
(9) During or at the conclusion of a public hearing the
Commission may–
(a) make an order or award with reasons therefor relating
to the matter before it or part thereof, or give a
direction with resons therefor ;
(b) dismiss any matter or part of a matter or refrain from
further hearing or from determining the matter or
part thereof, if it appears that the matter or part
thereof is trivial or vexatious or that further
proceedings are not necessary or desirable in the
public interest ;

<!-- page 19 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
18
(c) generally give all such directions and do all such
things as are necessary or expedient for expeditious
and just hearing and determination of the matter
before it.
(10) Every order or award made and every direction
given in pursuance of paragraph (a) of subsection (9) shall be
published in the Gazette, and a copy of every such order, award
or direction shall be served on each party to the public hearing.
19. (1) An order, award or direction made by the
Commission under section 18 shall, subject to subsection (2),
be final.
(2) An appeal shall lie by any person aggrieved from an
order, award or direction made under section 18 on a question
of law, to the Court of Appeal.
(3) An appeal under subsection (2), shall be by written
petition and shall–
(a) be presented in triplicate to the Commission within
thirty days after the date of the communication by
which the order, award or direction was notified to
the appellant ;
(b) set forth the order, award or direction of the
Commission and the question  of law to be argued ;
(c) make any necessary party a respondent to such
appeal ; and
(d) be accompanied by a fee of one thousand repees to
be made payable to the Fund of the Commission.
(4) Where a petition of appeal is presented to the
Commission in the manner and within the time specified in
subsection (3), the Commission shall—
(a) transmit, or cause to be transmitted to the Court of
Appeal a copy of the petition together with the record
Finality of orders
made under
section 18 subject
to appeal on a
question of law.

<!-- page 20 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
19
of the proceedings in wich the order, award or
direction referred to in the petition was made or given;
(b) issue, or cause to be issued notice of the appeal to
the respondents named in the petition of appeal
together with a copy of that petition ; and
(c) file or cause to be filed of record a copy of the
petition.
(5) The Court of Appeal may in determining such question
of law, confirm, vary or annul the order, award or direction of
the Commission or may remit the matter to the Commission
with the decision of that Court on the question of law with
such directions as may be deemed appropriate.
20. A copy of any rule, order, award, direction or other
document made by or in the costody of the Commission and
certified by the Chairman to be a true copy thereof shall, in
any court, be evidence of the rule, order, award, direction or
other document without proof of the signature of the Chairman.
21. Any person who without lawful authority contravenes
or fails to comply with an order, award or direction of the
Commission shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate to a
fine not exceeding one million rupees and where the offence
is a continuing offence to an additional fine of five hundred
thousand rupees for each day during which such contravention
continues.
PART V
C
OMPETITION
22. The Commission shall, in relation to each public
utilities industry, regulate and inquire into anti-competitive
practices, monopolies, acquisitions and abuses of a dominant
position, and merger situations and may carry out an
investigation, either of its own motion or on a complaint or
request made to it by any person, with respect to—
Contravention of
an order, award or
direction.
Evidence of
documents.
Commission’s
competition
functions.

<!-- page 21 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
20
(a) the existence or suspected existence of any anti-
competitive practices ;
(b) the acquisition, existence or suspected existence of
abuse of a dominant position which may affect
domestic trade or economic development in one or
more markets in which a regulated entity operates ;
or
(c) the creation or suspected creation of a merger
situation,
on becoming aware of the same, in consultation with any
regulated entity affected or likely to be affected, the
complainant and any Consumer Consultative Committee
established.
23. (1) For the purposes of section 22—
(a) (i) any agreement in writing, oral or by conduct,
involving a regulated entity ;
(ii)any decision by regulated entities acting
together ; or
(iii) any practice or conduct of one or more regulated
entities,
which affects or is likely to affect domestic or
international trade and the object or effect of which is
to prevent, restrict or distort competition in Sri Lanka
shall constitute an anti-competitive practice ;
(b) the provisions of section 23 (1) (a) shall apply in
particular, to agreements, decisions, practices or
conduct which–
(i) directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling
prices ;
Criteria for
Commission’s
competition
function.

<!-- page 22 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
21
(ii) eliminate or substantially damage a competitor
in a market ;
(iii) prevent the entry of a competitor into a market ;
(iv) deter or prevent a person from engaging in
competitive conduct in a market ; or
(v) unduly limit or control a consumer’s access to,
or ability to transfer to or from, a regulated
entity ;
(c) a dominant position shall be taken to exist if the
prescribed percentage of a utility network is used or
provided by, or the prescribed percentage of a utility
service is provided by or to–
(i) the same person ; or
(ii)members of a group of persons, including
connected bodies corporate ;
(d) conduct that may, in particular, constitute an abuse
of a dominant position if it–
(i) amounts to directly  or indirectly imposing
unfair purchase or selling prices ;
(ii)eliminates or substantially damages a
competitor in  a market ;
(iii) prevents the entry of a competitor into a market ;
(iv) deters or prevents a person from engaging in
competitive conduct in a market ; or
(v) unduly limits or controls a consumer’s access
to, or ability to transfer to or from, regulated
entities ;

<!-- page 23 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
22
(e) a merger situation shall be taken to exist if a person,
including a body corporate, acquires or proposes to
acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares or assets
of any other person which results or would result in
a change of control of that other person –
(i) the object or effect of which is that the persons
taken together are or are likely to be or would
be in a dominant position in a market in any
public utilities industry ; or
(ii) where both persons are engaged, exclusively or
otherwise, in the provision of, and hold a
dominant position within the same utility
network or utility service in a public utilities
industry, in the same or different geographical
areas, even if the circumstances in (i) above are
not satisfied ;
(f) any regulated entity which is of the opinion or ought
reasonably to be of the opinion that it may fall within
the scope of the activities set out in section 22 which
the Commission is empowered to  investigate shall
notify the Commission immediately,
(2) In this section–
“control” means direct or indirect control of the whole
or parts of one or more other persons ;
“utility network” means a network or system, however
defined in any industry Act, for the provision of
utility services ; and
“utility services” means the provision of goods or
services in the public utilities industries.
24. (1) Where, upon investigation, the Commission is
satisfied that an anti-competitive practice or merger situation
exists but that it does not operate or is not likely to operate
against the public interest, the Commission shall by order,
authorize that anti-competitive practice or merger situation
subject to such conditions as it may consider necessary or
expedient.
Commission’s
competition
enforcement
powers.

<!-- page 24 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
23
(2) Where, upon investigation, the Commission is satisfied
that a dominant position exists but that no abuse of that
dominant position exists, the Commission shall by order,
declare that no abuse of a dominant position has occurred,
subject to such conditions, as it may consider necessary or
expedient.
(3) Where, upon investigation, the Commission is satisfied
that–
(a) a merger situation exists, is likely to operate against
the public interest and that a merger has not yet taken
place, the Commission may by order prohibit the
merger situation ;
(b) Without prejudice to paragraph (a), in anti-
competitive practice or merger situation exists and
that it operates against the public interest, or an abuse
of a dominant position exists, the Commission may
by order provide for–
(i) the carrying on of any activity or the
safeguarding of any assets by the appointment
of a person to conduct or supervise the conduct
of such activities or safeguarding such assets
on such terms and with such powers as may be
specified in the order ;
(ii) the termination of any anti-competitive practice
or abuse of a dominant position or the de-merger
of a merger situation in such manner as may be
specified in the order ; and
(iii) such action as the Commission may consider
necessary in the circumstances for the purpose
of remedying or preventing the resulting adverse
effects, subject to such conditions as it may
consider necessary or expedient.

<!-- page 25 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
24
(4) In determining for the purpose of this section whether
an anti-competitive practice or merger situation operates or
is likely to operate against the public interest, the Commission
shall take into account all matters which appear to the
Commission to be relevant to the matter under investigation
and shall have special regard to the desirability of —
(a) maintaining and promoting effective competition
between regulated entities ; and
(b) promoting the interests of consumers in relation to
the market in which the anti-competitive practice or
merger situation operates, or is likely to operate; and
in addition, in the case of a merger situation—
(c) giving effect to the principle that the number of
regulated entities which are under independent
control should not be so reduced as to prejudice the
Commission’s ability, in carrying on its functions to
make comparisons between different regulated
entities in the same public utilities industry.
(5) The Commission shall give any regulated entity, which
is the subject of an inquiry or investigation held by the
Commission under section 22, an opportunity to be heard and
to produce oral or documentary evidence.
25. (1) Where the Commission reasonably believes that
an activity identified under section 22 exists, without prejudice
to section 15, the Commission shall have the power exercised
by an officer of the Commission authorized in that behalf, on
reasonable grounds, with an entry warrant issued by a
Magistrate and on production, if required, thereof —
(a) to enter, inspect and search at all reasonable hours
of the day the premises in which any regulated entity
is carrying on its business or any other premises ;
and
Powers of entry,
inspection and
search.

<!-- page 26 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
25
(b) to inspect, take copies of or seize and detain any
relevant records or documents of that regulated
entity,
and no person shall obstruct any officer acting in the
exercise of his or her powers under this section.
26. (1) The Commission is required to ensure that so far
as possible, having regard to any relevant differences between
the provisions concerned, question arising under this Part in
relation to the regulation of competition in the public utilities
industries are dealt with, in a manner which is consistent with
the treatment of corresponding question arising under the
relevant Act.
(2) In determining a question under this Part, the
Commission shall act so far as is compatible with the
provisions of this Part, with a view to securing that there would
be no inconsistency between the principles applied, and any
decision reached, by the relevant authority in determining that
question and the Commission shall, in addition, have regard
to any relevant decision or statement of the relevant authority.
(3) In this section “relevant authority” means the statutory
regulatory authority charged, under a relevant Act, with
equivalent competition regulation functions for industries
other than the public utilities industries.
27. (1) Any person who fails to comply with a relevant
obligation shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and
shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate
be liable—
(a) where such person is not a body corporate, to a fine
not less than one million and not more than ten
million rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding seven years or
to both such fine and imprisonment ;
Principles to be
applied.
Offences and
penalties.

<!-- page 27 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
26
(b) where such person is a body corporate, to a fine not
less than ten million and not more than hundred
million rupees  ; and
(c) in either case, where the offence is a continuing
offence, to an additional fine of five hundred
thousand rupees  for each day during which such
contravention continues,
and the court may in addition order such persons to refrain
from carrying on those activities which are required to
have been terminated, or to do such other acts as are
required to be done, under the Commission’s earlier order
for such period as may be determined by the court or until
such person complies with such order made under that
section.
(2) The Commission may publish or cause to be published
in such manner as it sees fit, the names and addresses of all
persons convicted under this Act.
(3) Where any offence is committed by a body of persons,
then–
(a) if the body of persons is a body corporate, every
director and officer of such body corporate ; and
(b) if the body of persons is a firm, every partner of that
firm,
shall be guilty of an offence, provided that such director,
officer or partner shall not be deemed to be  guilty of that
offence if he or she establishes to the satisfaction of the
court that such offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.

<!-- page 28 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
27
(4) In this section, “relevant obligation” means an
obligation cast on any person under this Part,  or the
obligations under section 15 where applicable in this Part, or
an order of the Commission made under this Part, or acts in
contravention of such order.
PART VI
C
ONSUMER  PROTECTION
28. The Commission shall in the exercise of its powers
under any industry Act or any regulation made thereunder,
protect the rights of the consumer—
(a) against the marketing of goods and services which
are hazardous to life and property ;
(b) against unfair trade practices ;
(c) to be heard and to be assured that their interests will
receive due consideration ; and
(d) to consumer education.
29. (1) The Commission shall, after consultation with
the Minister, appoint a Consumer Consultative Committee.
(2) The composition of the Committee shall be as
prescribed by regulation.
(3) The functions of the Committee shall be to—
(a) advise the Commission on appropriate standards to
be prescribed or determined under this Act ;
(b) monitor whether the needs of consumers of goods
or services provided by any public utilities industry
are being satisfied ; and
(c) promote awareness of the standards prescribed or
determined under this Act and the rights of
consumers with respect to those standards.
Consumer
protection.
Consumer
Consultative
Committee

<!-- page 29 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
28
PART VII
POLICY  GUIDELINES
30. (1) The Cabinet of Ministers shall in consultation
with the Minister in charge of a public utilities industry,
formulate where it sees fit, general policy guidelines and issue
such guidelines to the Commission through the Minister—
(a) on any matter identified in or under such industry
Act for which general policy guidelines may be
made ;
(b) on the need for the supply of public utility services
under such industry Act in order to attain national
targets for sustainable economic growth in respect
of, among other things—
(i) different geographical areas encompassing rural
areas ; and
(ii) different socio-economic groups ;
(c) on measures taken by the Government to facilitate
the needs identified under paragraph (b) ;
(d) on setting down the priorities and attaining the
objectives specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).
(2) Where any general policy guideline issued under
subsection (1) results in the need for a regulated entity to
subsidize the provision of any service of a public utilities
industry to any socio-economic group or to a geographical
area, the Commission shall, in implementing the policy
guidelines, ensure that—
(a) the government compensates such regulated entity
for all loss and expenses caused to that regulated
entity by reason of its compliance ; and
Minister to issue
general policy
guidelines.

<!-- page 30 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
29
(b) adequate financial provision is made by the
Government before such regulated entity undertakes
any necessary activities.
(3) The Minister shall—
(a) within three months of the end of each calendar year
submit a report to Parliament setting out the action
he or she has taken in respect of implementing the
policy guidelines during the said calendar year ; and
(b) prior to issuing the general policy guidelines under
subsection (1), lay such policy guidelines before
Parliament for information.
PART VIII
F
INANCE
31. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Commission—
(a) all such sums of money as may be reasonably
required by the Commission to perform its functions
and duties under this Act and any other industry Act,
voted upon by Parliament during the first year of
the establishment of the Commission ;
(b) all such sums of money as are recovered by the
Commission as levies under industry Acts ;
(c) all such sums of money as are received by the
Commission in the exercise, performance and
discharge, of its powers, duties and functions under
this Act or any other industry Act, including fees
received by the Commission for the grant or renewal
of licences under those Acts ;
Fund of the
Commission.

<!-- page 31 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
30
(d) all such sums of money as are received by the
Commission by way of loans, gifts or grants from
any source whatsoever ; and
(e) all such sums of money as are authorized or required
to be paid into the Fund by any provisions of this
Act or any other industry Act.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission—
(a) all such sums of money as are required to defray
any expenditure incurred by the Commission in the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers
duties and functions under this Act or any other
industry Act ; and
(b) all such sums of money as are required or authorized
to be paid out of the Fund by any provision of this
Act or any other industry Act.
(4) The Commission may, with the approval of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, invest such
moneys as are not immediately required for its purposes, in
such securities as the Commission may consider fit and
transfer or sell such securities.
32. The Commission may borrow temporarily, by way
of overdraft or otherwise, such sums of money as the
Commission may reasonably require for performing or
discharging its duties and functions under this Act or any other
industry Act :
Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstanding in
respect of any temporary loans raised under this section shall
not at any time exceed such sum as may be determined by the
Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.
Power to borrow.

<!-- page 32 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
31
Provision relating
to expenditure.
33. (1) Any excess of the revenue of the Commission
in any year over its expenditure for that year shall be carried
forwards to meet its expenditure in subsequent years.
(2) The Commission shall, not later than September of
each year, cause to be published in the Gazette, a statement
setting out its estimated expenditure for the next financial
year.
(3) The Commission may revise its estimated
expenditure for any year in that year and shall cause every
such revision to be published in the Gazette.
(4) The expenditure of the Commission for any year, shall
not exceed by ten per centum of its estimated expenditure (as
revised from time to time), for that year.
34. (1) The financial year of the Commission shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Commission. Separate
accounts shall be maintained in respect of loans received.
(3) The Auditor-General shall audit the accounts of the
Commission.
(4) The Auditor-General and any person assisting him or
her in the audit of the accounts of the Commission, shall have
access to all such books, deeds, contracts, accounts, vouchers
and documents as the Auditor General may consider necessary
for the purposes of such audit, and shall be furnished by the
Commission or its officers with such information within their
knowledge as may be required for such purposes.
(5) The Auditor-General shall examine the accounts of
the Commission and furnish a report—
(a) stating whether he or she has or has not obtained all
the information and explanations required by him
or her ;
Accounts and
audit.

<!-- page 33 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
32
(b) stating whether the accounts referred to in the report
are properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and fair
view of the affairs of the Commission ; and
(c) drawing attention to any item in the accounts which
in his or her opinion may be of interest to Parliament
in any examination of the activities and accounts of
the Commission.
(6) The Auditor-General shall transmit the report and
statement prepared by him under subsection (5), to the
Commission.
(7) For the purpose of meeting the expenses incurred by
him or her in the audit of the accounts of the Commission,
the Auditor-General shall be paid out of the Fund of the
Commission, such remuneration as the Commission may
determine. Any remuneration received by the Auditor-General
under this subsection shall, after deduction therefrom of any
sums paid by him or her to any qualified auditor or auditors
employed by him or her for the purposes of such audit, be
credited to the Consolidated Fund.
PART IX
G
ENERAL
35. (1) The Commission and the relevant person at each
of the following :—
(a) the Central Environmental Authority ;
(b) the Urban Development Authority ;
(c) the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission ;
and
(d) such other regulatory body as may be designated by
the Minister for the purposes of this section,
shall, in the case of the persons referred to in paragraphs
(a), (b) and (c), not later than six months after the
Co-operation
between
Commission and
other bodies.

<!-- page 34 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
33
establishment of the Commission, and in the case of the
persons referred to in paragraph (d), not later than six
months after they are designated under that paragraph,
make arrangements and prepare a written memorandum
with a view to securing —
(i) co-operation and exchange of information
between the Commission and each of those
bodies ; and
(ii)consistent treatment of matters which come
within the scope of the functions of the
Commission and each of those bodies, insofar
as such treatment does not contravene the
provisions of this Act  or any other law.
(2) As soon as practicable after a written memorandum
is prepared, and whenever any revision of it is subsequently
agreed upon as being appropriate by the Commission and each
of the bodies referred to in subsection (1), the Commission
shall send a copy of the written memorandum, or the revised
memorandum, as the case may be, to the Minister for his or
her information.
(3) The “relevant person” in relation to—
(a) the Central Environmental Authority, shall be its
General Manager ;
(b) the Urban Development Authority, shall be its
General manager ;
(c) the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission,
shall be its chief executive officer ; and
(d) a body designated under paragraph ( d) of
subsection(1) shall be its chief executive officer.

<!-- page 35 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
34
36. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie against—
(a) the Commission for any act which in good faith is
done or omitted to be done, by the Commission under
this Act or any other industry Act ;
(b) any member, secretary, Director-General, Deputy
Director-General (if any), Staff, Consultant or
Advisor of the Commission for any act which in
goods faith is done or omitted to be done, by him or
her under this Act or any other industry Act.
(2) Any expenses incurred by the Commission in any suit
or prosecution brought by , or against, the Commission before
any court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission
and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Commission in
any such suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of
the Commission.
(3) Any expenses incurred by any member of the
Commission, Secretary, Director-General, Deputy Director-
General (if any), Staff, Consultant or Advisor thereof, in any
suit or prosecution brought against him or her in any court in
respect of any act which is done, or purported to be done, by
him or her under this Act or any other industry Act or on the
direction of the Commission shall, if the court holds that the
act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the
Commission, unless such expense is recovered by him in such
suit or prosecution.
37. (1) The Commission shall within three months of
the end of each financial year, prepare a report of its activities
during that year and its proposed activities in the following
year, and shall transmit a copy of such report together with a
copy of the audited accounts of the Commission for that year,
to the Minister.
Protection of
action.
Annual report.

<!-- page 36 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
35
(2) The Minister on receipt of a report prepared under
subsection (1)—
(a) shall cause a copy of such report to be placed before
Parliament ;
(b) may require the members of the Commission to
clarify any matter arising from such report to
Parliament or a Committee of Parliament ; and
(c) may require the Commission to publish such report
and accounts in such manner as she or he considers
appropriate to bring them to the attention of the
public.
(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)
every annual report shall contain—
(a) a general survey of developments during the year to
which the report relates in respect of matters falling
within the scope of the Commission’s function and
in particular, developments in the promotion of
consumer interests ;
(b) details of enforcement order (if any) made by the
Commission during that year ; and
(c) details of development and expansion of the public
utilities industries in Sri Lanka.
38. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of
all or any matters for which rules are authorized or required
by this Act to be made.
(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come into
force upon publication in the Gazette.
39. The provisions of this Act and the regulations, rules
or orders made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding
Provision for
conflict with
other written
laws.
Power of
Commission
to make rules.

<!-- page 37 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
36
anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other relevant
Act other than this Act and in the event of any conflict between
the provisions of this Act and the provisions of any other
relevant Act the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
40. The Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, may
make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, as he may deem necessary with a view to providing
for any unforeseen or special circumstances, or to determining
or adjusting any question or matter, for the determination or
adjustment of which no provision or no effective provision is
made in this Act.
41. All members and staff of the Commission shall be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Penal Code.
42 The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
43. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
44. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Act” means an Act of Parliament ;
“annual report” means annual report prepared under
section 37 ;
“Central Environmental Authority” means the Central
Environmental Authority established by the
National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 ;
Members and
Staff of the
Commission
deemed to be
public servants.
Commission
deemed to be a
schedules
institution for the
purpose of the
Bribery Act.
Adjustment of
Commission to
make ruoles.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 38 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
37
“Chairman” includes the Deputy Chairman appointed
under section 8 (6) ;
“connected person” in relation to any person means a
spouse, child, brother or sister of that person ;
“Constitutional Council” means the Constitutional
Council established under Article 41A of the
Constitution of the Republic of Sri Lanka ;
“consumer” means any person who buys or avails of
any goods or services, as the case may be, for a
consideration which has been paid or promised or
partly paid and partly promised, or under any
system of deferred payment and includes—
(i) any user of such goods or beneficiary of such
services other than the person who buys or
avails of such goods or services, as the case
may be, for consideration paid or promised,
or under any system of deferred payment
when such use is made or services are
availed of with the approval of the first-
mentioned person ;
(ii) any prospective buyer or beneficiary of such
goods or services, as the case may be ;
“financial year” means the calendar year ;
“industry Act” means an Act that governs any specific
public utilities industry the regulation of which is
vested in or assigned to the Commission ;
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject
of Policy Development and Implementation ;
“notice” means notice in writing ;
“prescribed” means prescribed by the Minister or
Commission, as the case may be, by regulation ;

<!-- page 39 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
38
“prescribed percentage” in relation to the provision of
a utility network or utility services means the
greater of forty per centum  or the percentage
prescribed, if any, by regulations made by the
Minister in charge of the subject of Commerce ;
“public utilities industry” for the purpose of this Act,
means any public utilities industry the regulation
of which has been vested in or assigned to the
Commission ;
“regulated entity” means a company or undertaking
which, subject to the provisions of any industry
Act, is engaged in the provision of public utilities
services under a valid licence, exemption,
concession, or contract granted by the
Commission ;
“relevant Act” means the Consumer Protection Act,
No. 1 of 1979, the Fair Trading Commission Act,
No. 1 of 1987 and the Control of Prices Act
(Chapter 173) or any Act replacing any of them,
or such other Act containing equivalent
competition regulation  provisions for industries
other than the public utilities industries ;
“Telecommunication Regulatory Commission” means
the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission
established by the Sri Lanka Telecommunications
Act, No. 25 of 1991 ;
“unfair trade practice” means a trade practice which
for the purpose of promiting the sale, use or supply
of any goods or for the provision of any service
adopts an unfair method or unfair or deceptive
practice including any of the following practices,
namely—
(1) the practice of making any statement,
whether orally or in writing or by visible
representation which—

<!-- page 40 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
39
(a) falsely represents that the goods are of
a particular standard, quality, quantity,
grade, composition, style or model ;
(b) falsely represents that the services are
of a particular standard, quality or
grade ;
(c) makes a false or misleading
representation concerning the need for,
or the usefulness of any goods or
services ;
(d) gives false or misleading facts
disparaging the goods, services or trade
of another person ; and
(2) permits the sale or supply of goods intended
to be used, or are of a kind likely to be used,
by consumers, knowing or having reason to
believe that the goods do not comply with
the standards prescribed by any industry Act
or any regulation made thereunder relating
to performance, composition, contents,
design, construction, finishing or packaging
as are necessary to prevent or reduce the risk
of injury to the person using the goods ;
“Urban Development Authority” means the Urban
Development Authority established by the Urban
Development Authority law, No. 41 of 1978.
SCHEDULE [Section 1 (2)]
1. Electricity industry ; and
2. Water service industry.

<!-- page 41 -->

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 35 of 2002
40
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.