

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 7.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 12,  2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 12th June, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECTS ACT,  N O . 33 OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
Short title.
[Certified on 12th June, 2009]
L. D. —O. 75/2006
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  SRI LANKA  INSTITUTE
OF  LANDSCAPE  ARCHITECTS  AND  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH
OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Institute of
Landscape Architects Act, No. 33 2009.
2. (1) There shall be established an Institute which shall
be called the Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architect
(hereinafter referred to as “the Institute”).
(2) The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue or be sued in
such name.
3. The general objects for which the Institute is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to develop the profession of landscape architecture
in Sri Lanka to internationally accepted standards;
(b) to provide leadership and guidance to the profession
and to facilitate the profession in fulfilling its vital
role in the process of sustainable development,
conserving and improving the environment,
integrating natural systems and applying relevant
arts and sciences in service to society.
4. The functions of the Institute shall be—
(a) to promote and advance the study of, practice and
application of, and research in, landscape
architecture and its related subjects and the arts
and sciences connected therewith;
Establishment of
the Sri Lanka
Institute of
Landscape
Architects.
General Objects
of the Institute.
Functions of the
Institute.

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
2
(b) to promote, establish and maintain close relations
with the profession worldwide, including the
international exchange of knowledge, skills and
experience in both educational and professional
spheres;
(c) to establish and maintain the highest possible
standards of professional practice in planning,
designing, development, management and
conservation of the landscape, along with other
relevant professionals and professional bodies;
(d) to organize, supervise and control the admission
and the professional education and training of
persons desiring to qualify as landscape architects,
to prescribe or approve courses of study for the
qualifying examinations for membership of the
Institute and to conduct or provide for the conduct
of such courses and examinations;
(e) to protect and promote the interests, status, welfare,
rights and privileges of the profession of landscape
architects in Sri Lanka and the interests of the public
in relation to that profession, and of persons desiring
to qualify as landscape architects; and
(f) to establish, regulate and maintain libraries and
benefit schemes for the benefit of members, officers
and employees and their dependants.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Institute shall have power to—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell and exchange or otherwise
dispose of any immovable or movable property of
the Institute;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
General
Powers of the
Institute.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
behalf by the Institute, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers, of the
Institute;
(c) levy fees, subscriptions and contributions in respect
of membership, admission to membership and
admission to courses and examinations conducted
by the Institute;
(d) invest its funds and maintain current, deposit and
savings accounts in any bank or banks approved
by the Council of the Institute;
(e) advance, lend and borrow money for the purposes
of the Institute in such manner and upon such
security as the Institute may think fit;
(f) prescribe the qualifications and disqualifications
for membership of the Institute and the standards of
professional conduct for members of the Institute,
and secure the maintenance thereof;
(g) appoint, employ, transfer, dismiss and take other
disciplinary action against officers and employees
and prescribe their terms and conditions of services;
and
(h) generally, do all such acts and things as are necessary
for or incidental or conducive to carrying out or the
attainment of the objects of the Institute.
6. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 14 of  this
Act, eligibility for each class of membership shall be specified
by rules made under this Act,
(2) The following classes of membership shall be in the
Institute:—
(a) Fellow;
Membership of
the Institute.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
4
(b) Member; and
(c) Non-Corporate Member, the various classes of which
shall be specified by rules made under this Act.
(3) The classes of membership mentioned under
paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) shall be referred to
as “Corporate Members”.
(4) Every Corporate Member shall be eligible to be
elected to the  Council or any Committee of the Institute
and shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges.
(5) Every Non-Corporate Member shall be entitled to
present at the meetings of the Institute but shall not have the
right to vote.
7. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 6, a person
who is eligible for membership of the Institute shall be
enrolled as a member upon payment to the Institute of a fee
as may be specified in the rules made under this Act.
(2) The enrolment of a person as a member of the Institute
shall be effective until the thirty-first day of December of
the year of enrolment and such enrolment may be renewed
annually upon payment of a fee specified by the rules.
8. (1) Any Corporate Member of the Institute shall be
entitled to take and use the title “Chartered Landscape
Architect” and to use the abbreviation “F.I.L.A. (Sri Lanka)”
after his name to indicate that he is a Fellow of the Institute
and to use abbreviation “M.I.L.A. (Sri Lanka)” after his name
to indicate that he is a Member of the Institute.
(2) Any firm of Landscape Architects, each of the partners
of which is a Corporate Member of the Institute, shall be
entitled to take and use the title “Chartered Landscape
Architects”.
Fee for
membership of
the Institute.
Use of titles.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
(3) Where one or more of the partners of a firm are
Corporate Members of the Institute, the Council may permit
such firm to take and use the title “Chartered Landscape
Architect” or “Chartered Landscape Architects” as the case
may be, as part of the description of such firm, provided that
the remaining partners are members of other professions.
(4) Save as aforesaid, no person or body of persons shall
take or use the title “Chartered Landscape Architect” or
“Chartered Landscape Architects” or the initials “F.I.L.A.
(Sri Lanka)”, or “M.I.L.A. (Sri Lanka)”, or use the same as
the name or part of the name in any book, journal or other
publication dealing with landscape architecture or the
practice of landscape architecture or the profession of
landscape architecture.
(5) No member shall take or use any designation or
abbreviated designation referred to in subsection (1) of this
section and which, under that subsection only a member
enrolled in any grade of the class of Corporate Members
may take or use, unless such person is for the time being
enrolled as a member in that grade.
9. (1) There shall be a Council of the Institute,
(hereinafter referred to the “Council”), which shall be vested
with the administration and management of the affairs of the
Institute.
(2) The Council shall consist of the President, the Vice-
President, the immediate Past president in the case of a
successive Council, the Secretary, the Treasurer, the Assistant
Secretary, the Assistant Treasurer and such other number of
members, not less than two and not more than eight, elected
or  appointed in accordance with the rules of the Institute.
The Council may provide for the election or appointment,
from among the Non-Corporate Members of the Institute, of
not more than two other persons as members of the Council,
to represent such Non-Corporate Members or any class
thereof:
Constitution of
the Council.

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
6
Acts not
invalidated by
reason of a
vacancy & c,.
Meetings of the
Council.
Provided however, that until the Institute has existed long
enough for there to be sufficient number of persons who
meet the requirements for Council membership and corporate
membership under the rules of the Institute, the President
and other members of the Council shall be members who
have successfully completed—
(i) a comprehensive full-time postgraduate degree
course in Landscape Architecture or Landscape
Design at a recognized university or institution;
and
(ii) at least six years subsequently experience in the
practice or teaching of Landscape Architecture.
(3) Every member of the Council shall, unless he vacates
office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office
for a period as specified in the rules of the Institute.
(4) A member of the Council shall vacate office by
resignation therefrom or if he ceases to be a member of the
Institute.
(5) In the event of death or vacation of office by a member
of the Council, another person shall be elected in place of
such member and shall hold office during the remaining
period of the term of office of such member.
(6) Any member of the Council who vacates office by
effluxion of time shall be eligible for re-election as a member.
10. No act or proceedings of the Council shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy in the Council or defect in the appointment of
election of any member of the Council.
11. The meetings of the Council shall be held in such
manner as specified in the rules of the Institute.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
12. (1) The Council may, at any general meeting and
by the votes of not less than two-thirds of the corporate
members present and voting, make rules in respect of any
matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of
which rules are authorized or required by this Act to be made.
Such rules when made, may, at a like meeting and in like
manner, be altered, added to, amended or rescinded.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by the provisions of subsection (1) of this section,
the Council may make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act and any other written law, in respect of
all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the admission, registration and expulsion of
members; the qualifications and disqualifications
for membership, the form and issue of certificates
of membership, the maintenance of a register of
members; the waiver or reduction and the effect of
non-payment of membership fees and the rights,
privileges and duties of members;
(b) the terms of office of the Council, eligibility for
and the mode of election or appointment thereto,
the resignation or vacation of office and the filling
of casual vacancies, the delegation of the powers
and functions of the Council and the appointment
of committees, the annual report of the Council,
and the adoption and use of the common seal;
(c) the rights, powers, functions and duties of the
officers of the Council;
(d) the summoning or holding of meetings of the
Council, the annual general meeting, other general
meetings and special general meetings of the
members of the Institute, the times, places, notice
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum thereof
and the conduct of business thereat;
Powers to make
rules.

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
8
(e) the management of the property of the Institute and
the custody of its funds;
(f) the formulation of a Code of Professional Conduct;
(g) the procedure for disciplinary inquiries, including
the appointment of Disciplinary Committees and
the provisions of legal assistance thereto, the form
of complaints, the framing of charges, the furnishing
of explanations in reply, the issue of notices, the
summoning of any person to give evidence
applicable thereto, the maintenance of the record
of the proceedings thereat and the form and content
of the reports of Disciplinary Committees.
(h) the appointment of the staff of the Institute such as
other officers and employees as may be necessary
for the purposes of the Institute;
(i) the dismissal of and exercise of disciplinary control
over, such officers and employees;
(j) the fixing of wages or salaries or other remuneration
of such officers and employees;
(k) the determination of the terms and conditions of
service of such officers and employees; and
(l) the establishment and regulation of schemes for
the benefit of such officers and employees and the
making of contributions to any such fund or
scheme.
(3) Every rule made under this Act, shall be published in
the Gazette.
(4) The members of the Institute shall be subject to the
rules for the time being of the Institute.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
(5) In the interpretation of any  of the rules made in
accordance with subsection (2) and in any matter not provided
for therein, the decision of the Council shall be final.
13. (1) The Council may delegate to the President all or
any of its powers relating to the appointment of other officers
or employees to the staff of the Institute.
(2) The conditions of employment including
remuneration of any officer or employee appointed by the
President under the powers delegated to him under this
section shall be determined by the Council, with the
concurrence of the President.
(3) Any person aggrieved by any decision taken under
this section may appeal therefrom in writing to the Council
and the decision of the Council on such appeal shall be
final.
(4) The dismissal by the President of any officer or
employee of the Institute shall not take effect unless such
dismissal is approved by the Council.
14. (1) No person shall be enrolled as a member of the
Institute—
(a) if he has been adjudged by a competent court to be
of unsound mind;
(b) if having been adjudged an insolvent or bankrupt
by a competent court, he has not been granted by
such court, a certificate to the effect that his
insolvency or bankruptcy has arisen wholly or partly
from unavoidable losses or misfortune;
(c) if he has been convicted by a competent court of
any offence involving moral turpitude and
punishable with imprisonment or similar
punishment and has not been granted a free pardon.
Delegation of
powers of the
Council.
General
Disqualifications.

<!-- page 11 -->

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
10
(2) The Council shall disenrol any person as a member
of the Institute, if he becomes subject to any disqualification
mentioned in subsection (1) of this section:
Provided, however, that such disenrolment shall not
prevent the Council form subsequently re-enrolling such
person if satisfied that he is fit to be enrolled.
15. (1) The Institute shall have its own fund.
(2) There shall be credited to the Fund of the Institute—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time
to time by Parliament;
(b) all such sums of money received by the Institute in
the exercise and discharge of its powers and
functions under this Act; and
(c) all such sums of money received by the Institute as
loans, grants and donations from sources within or
outside Sri Lanka.
(3) All sums of money required to defray any expenditure
incurred by the Institute in the exercise and discharge of its
powers and functions shall be charged on the Fund of the
Institute.
16. The financial year of the Institute shall be the
calendar year.
17. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
shall apply in relation to the audit of the accounts of the
Institute.
18. The seal of the Institute shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except by the authority of a resolution
of the Council and in the presence of two members of the
Council or, of the secretary and such other person as the
Fund of the
Institute.
Financial year of
Institute.
Audit of
accounts.
Seal of the
Institute.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
Council shall authorize for the purpose, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
19. All members of the Council and officers and
employees of the Institute shall be deemed to be public
servants within the meaning and for the purposes of the
Penal Code. (Chapter 19).
20.  The Institute shall be deemed to be a scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter
26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.
21. No member of the Council or officer or employee of
the Institute shall disclose to any person, except for the
purpose of discharging his functions under this Act or when
required to do so by a court under any law, any information
acquired by him in the discharge of his functions under this
Act.
22. Any expense incurred by any person in any suit or
prosecution brought against him before any court in respect
of any act which is done by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Council shall, if the court holds that the act
was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the
Institute.
23. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against a member of the Council in any action brought
against the Institute.
Members,
officers and
employees of
the Institute to
be deemed
public servants.
Institute deemed
to be Scheduled
Institution
within the
meaning of the
Bribery Act,
(Chapter 26)
Prohibition of
disclosure of
information.
Expense
incurred by any
person to be
paid by the
Institute.
Prohibition of
issue of a writ.

<!-- page 13 -->

Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
12
Offences and
penalties.
24. Any person who contravenes the provisions of the
Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to
imprisonment or to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
25. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Sri Lanka Institute of Landscape Architects
Act, No. 33 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.