

<!-- page 1 -->

9Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF
SRI  LANKA
FINANCE  (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 24 OF 1 999
[Certified on 30th August, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September  03, 1999
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTNG, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs. 6.75                  Postage: Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
[Certified on 30th August, 1999.]
¦L.D. - O. 23/96.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  FINANCE  ACT , NO .16 OF  1995.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Finance (Amendment)
Act, No.24 of 1999 .
2. (Section 2 of the Finance Act, No. 16 of 1995
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment” ) is hereby
repealed and the subsitution therefor of the following :-
2.  There shall be charged, levied and paid,
on every diesel motor vehicle, a diesel motor
vehicle levy (in this part referred to as “the
levy”), for the years commencing respectively,
on April 01, 1995 and April 01 1996 of a sum
equal to ten thousand rupees, and for every year
commencing on or after April 01, 1997, of a sum
equal to five thousand rupees . The levy
payable for every such year shall be paid by the
registered owner of the diesel motor vehicle, on
or before the relevant date.”
3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words “There shall be
charged, levied and paid, on every luxury motor vehicle (other
than a semi-luxury dual purpose motor vehicle ) for”, of the
words “There shall be charged, levied and paid on every luxury
motor vehicle (other than a semi luxury dual purpose motor
vehicle or a wagon) for”.
4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words “There shall be
charged, levied and paid, on every semi luxury motor vehicle
for”, of the words “ There shall be charged, levied and paid on
every semi luxury motor vehicle (other than a  semi luxury dual
purpose motor vehicle or a wagon  for”.
Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
Section 2 of the
Finance Act,
No.16 of 1995.
Short title.
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.
“Annual
diesel motor
vehicle
levy.”

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
5. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words” “There shall be
charged, levied and paid, on every semi-luxury dual purpose
motor vehicle for”,of the words “There shall be charged,
levied and paid, on every semi-luxury dual purpose motor
vehicle (other than a wagon) for”.
6. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words “semi luxury
motor vehicle levy and semi luxury dual purpose motor
vehicle levy and any penalty added thereto”, of the words
“semi luxury motor vehicle levy and semi luxury dual purpose
motor vehicle levy”.
7. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 7 and shall have the effect as
section 7A of the principal enactment:-
7
A . The Commissioner may exempt the
registered owner of a motor vehicle from the
payment of the whole or any part of the diesel
motor vehicle levy payable by such registered
owner for any year, where he is satisfied that such
registered owner has given a notice of non-user
for a period exceeding six months in respect of
that year, under section 37 of the Motor Traffic
Act or any corresponding provision in any
statute of a Provincial Council relating to Motor
Traffic”.
8. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 8 and shall have effect as section 8A
of the principal enactment:-
“8A  Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (1) of section 8, where the registered
owner of any specified motor vehicle is the State
or a local authority as the case may be, such
registered owner may pay the levy to any insurer
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
“When
registered
owner is the
State,or a
local
authority.
Amendment of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 7A in the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 8A in the
principal
enactment.
“Exemption
from diesel
motor
vehicle levy
for non user.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
and the provisions of subsections (2),(3), (4),
(5), (6) of section 8 and section 9 shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, such
payment.”.
9. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following new section substituted therefor -
(1)  The registered owner of every speci-
fied motor vehicle shall produce to the insurer
at the time he applies for the issue or renewal of
an insurance policy in respect of such motor
vehicle for any year, proof of payment of the
levy in respect of that specified motor vehicle
for that year and the preceding year.
(2) Where the registered owner fails to
show proof of payment of any levy referred to
in subsection (1), the insurer shall notify the
 Commissioner forth with of such non payment”.
10. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the substitution, in subsection (3) of that
section, for the words “Ievy in default within”.
of the words “Ievy in default and any penalty
added thereto within” ;
(2) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section
and the substitution therefor of the following :-
“(4)  A  notice  shall  be  deemed  to  have been
duly served on a defaulter where he is -
(a)a registered owner of any specified motor
vehicle,  if such notice was served on him
personally or was sent by registered post
addressed to him at the address set out in
the Certificate of Registration of that
vehicle ; or
Replacement of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment
“Registered
owner to
prove
payment of
the levy.
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
(b)an insurer, if such notice was served on him
personally or was sent by registered post
addressed to him at his registered office or
principal place of business,
and in the case of a notice sent to a defaulter by
registered post, the notice shall be deemed to
have been received by the defaulter on the date
on which it would ordinarily be delivered
to him.”.
11. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 10, and shall have effect as sections
10 
A  and 10B  respectively of the principal enactment:-
10A  The Commissioner may waive or reduce
the amount of any penalty payable by a
registered owner under subsection (2) of
section 10, if the Commissioner is satisfied that
the failure of the registered owner to pay the
levy before the relevant date was due to
circumstances beyond his control and that
waiver or reduction of such penalty is just and
equitable in all the circumstances of the case.
10
B  Where the registered owner of a motor
vehicle has paid a penalty in respect of a levy
which is deemed to be in default, the
Commissioner may -
(a)set off the penalty paid by such registered
owner against the levy payable by him for
any succeeding year;
(b)refund the penalty paid by such registered
owner
where the Commissioner is satisfied that the
failure of the registered owner to pay the levy
before the relevant date was due to
circumstances beyond his control and the set
off or refund of  the penalty paid by such
registered owner is just and equitable in all the
circumstances of the case.
Insertion of new
sections 10
A  and
10B  in the
principal
enactment. “Power of
Commissioner
to waive or
reduce
penalty.
Power of
Commis-
sioner
to set off or
refund
penalty

<!-- page 6 -->

5Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
12. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following new section substituted therefor:-
11. Where the amount of the levy and any
penalty added thereto, has not been paid before
the expiry of the date referred to in a notice sent
under section 10, the Commissioner may issue a
certificate, containing the amount of such levy
and any penalty added thereto and the name
and last known place of residence of the
defaulter to a Magistrate having jurisdiction in
the division in which such place is situated. The
Magistrate shall thereupon summon such
defaulter before him to show cause why further
proceedings for the recovery of the levy and
any penalty added thereto, should not be taken
against him, and in default of sufficient cause
being shown the levy in default and any
penalty added therto, shall be deemed to be a
fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate
on such defaulter for an offence punishable with
fine only, not punishable with imprisonment, and
the provisions of subsection (1) of section 291
(except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) thereof) of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979,
relating to default of payment of a fine imposed
for such an offence shall thereupon apply and
the Magistrate may make any direction which,
by the provisions of that subsection, he could
have made at the time of imposing such
sentence.”
13. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
14. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for all the words from “if he pays
the levy to the Commissioner within three months of the date
of commencement of this Act” to the end of that section,
 of       the     following,   “ if      he   pays   the   levy    to    the
Replacement of
section 11 of the
principal
enactment.
Repeal of section
12 of the principal
enactiment
Amendment of
section 16 of the
principal
enactment.
“Recovery of
levy

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
Commissioner on or before September 05, 1996. Where any
such levy is not so paid such levy shall be deemed to be in
default after the expiration of such date and such registered
owner shall be deemed to be a defaulter within the meaning of
this Act, with effect from such date.”.
15. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of all the words from “motor cycle”
to “Motor Traffic Act” and the substitution of
the following therefor:-
“invalid carriage”, “motor ambulance”, motor
cycle”, “motor hearse”, motor tricycle”
“om nibus and private coach” shall have
the respective meanings assigned to them by
the Motor Traffic Act”;
(2) in the definition of “motor vehicle”, by the
substitution for all the words from “lorry” , to
the end of that definition of the following:-
“lorry, omnibus, private coach, tractor, hand
tractor or trailer, which is constructed or
adapted for the carriage of not more than ten
persons (including the driver) and
their effects;”
(3) by the repeal of the definition of “semi luxury
dual purpose vehicle” and the substitution of
the following definition therefor:-
“semi luxury dual purpose motor vehicle” means
a luxury motor vehicle or a semi luxury motor
vehicle which is registered as a dual purpose
motor vehicle;
(4) by the insertion immediately after the definition
of “specified motor vehicle” , of the following
definition therefor:-
Amendment of
section 17 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
“wagon” means a motor vehicle designed as a
single unit and constructed or adapted for
the purpose of transporting passengers or
goods or passengers and goods.’
16. The amendment made to section 2 of the principal
enactment by section 2 of this Act shall be deemed to have
come into force on April 01, 1997.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Retrospective
effiect.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Finance (Amendment) Act,No.24 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign).
Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS  H OUSE ,
       LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.