

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 256
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 250
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"953 – 2016 fmnrjdß ui 05 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'02'05
No. 1,953 – fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy  05, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th february, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th  february, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
247

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
248
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General
 :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5
 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5
 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5
 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
249
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) 
 When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
250
Posts – Vacant
RegistRaR   geneRal’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
Kegalle   District
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Birth, Deaths and Marriages registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District secretariats, land and District registries, Divisional secretaries offices, grama niladhari offices, rural Development 
societies and co-operative societies in the Division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of District secretaries (government agents) and land and District 
registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 08th March, 2016.
 e. M. gunasekera,
 registrar general.
registrar general’s Department,
no. 234/a3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th January, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications must be sent
Kegalle Mawanella post of registrar of Marriages (general/ District secretary/additional
   Kandyan) in Koralatuna and patha-  r egistrar general, District   
   bulathgama Division and Births and   s ecretariat Kegalle.
   Deaths of atulugam Korale West Division
02–15
––––––––––––––
RegistRaR   geneRal’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
anuraDhapura   District
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
251
03. ap plicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District secretariats, land and District registries, Divisional secretaries offices, grama niladhari offices, rural Development 
societies and co-operative societies in the Division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of District secretaries (government agents) and land and District 
registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 08th March, 2016.
 e. M. gunasekera,
 registrar general.
registrar general’s Department,
no. 234/a3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th January, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications should be sent
anuradhapura Thirappane post of registrar of Marriages (general/ District secretary/additional
    Kandyan) of hurulu palatha Division  r egistrar general, District   
    and Births and Deaths of ulagalle south  s ecretariat anuradhapura.
    Division
02–16
––––––––––––––
RegistRaR   geneRal’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars marriages, Births and Deaths 
 
Kalutara   District
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Birth, Deaths and Marriages registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District secretariats, land and District registries, Divisional secretaries offices, grama niladhari offices, rural Development 
societies and co-operative societies in the Division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of District secretaries (government agents) and land and District 
registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 08th March, 2016.
 e. M. gunasekera,
 registrar general.
registrar general’s Department,
no. 234/a3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th January, 2016.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
252
sched ule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications should be sent
Kalutara p anadura post of registrar of Marriages (general) District secretary/additional
    in Kalutara and panadura totamuna   r egistrar general, District   
    Division and Births and Deaths of   s ecretariat Kalutara.
    g orakapola Division
Kalutara p alinda nuwara p ost of registrar of Marriages (general) District secretary/additional
    in pasdun Koralaya east Division and  r egistrar general, District   
    Births and Deaths of Bellana Division  s ecretariat Kalutara.
02–17
––––––––––––––
RegistRaR   geneRal’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars marriages, Births and Deaths in tamil medium  
 
Jaffna   District
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Birth, Deaths and Marriages registration Divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District secretariats, land and District registries, Divisional secretaries offices, grama niladhari offices, rural Development 
societies and co-operative societies in the Division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of District secretaries (government agents) and land and District 
registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 04th March, 2016.
 e. M. gunasekera,
 registrar general.
registrar general’s Department,
no. 234/a3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th January, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications should be sent
Jaffna nallur post of addl. registrar of Marriages The District secretary/The additional
   (general) of nallur Divisional secretary's  r egistrar general, District   
   Division (tamil Medium)  s ecretariat Jaffna.
02–110

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
253
RegistRaR   geneRal’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars of muslim marriages 
 
anuraDhapura   District
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages registration Divisions and should be entitled to 
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as District secretariats, land and District registries, Divisional secretaries offices, grama niladhari offices, rural Development 
societies and co-operative societies in the Division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of District secretaries (government agents) and land and District 
registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 08th March, 
2016.
 e. M. gunasekera,
 registrar general.
registrar general’s Department,
no. 234/a3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th January, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications should be sent
anuradhapura t irappane post of registrar of Muslim Marriages in District secretary/additional
    t irappane area of hurulu palatha  r egistrar general, District   
    Division   s ecretariat, anuradhapura.
02–14
––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  WOmEN  AND  ChILD  AffAIRS
Recruitment for the Post of Research Officer of Field/
Office Service Category I
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified citizens for recruitment 
to the post of Research Officer of Field/Office Service Category 
i on the results of structural interview of the Ministry of Women 
and child affairs. applications prepared as per the specimen 
appended at the end of this notice must be sent by registered 
post to the Secretary, Ministry of Women and 
child affairs, 05th 
floor, Sethsiripaya Stage ii, bttaramulla on or before the closing 
date of application mentioned below. the text "Recruitment to 
the Post of Research Officer of the Ministry of Women and Child 
affairs" should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope containing the application.   
(a) closing date of the application will be on 29.02.2016 and 
the late applications will be rejected. 
Note.– complaints made with regard to an application 
or a loss or delay of any correspondence could not 
be considered and the losses caused by delaying 
applications up to the closing date will have to be borne 
by the candidates. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
254
01. Method of Recruitment.– out of the candidates who are 
with the qualifications mentioned in the notice, vacancy will be 
filled on the highest marks scored by a candidate at a Structural 
interview held by an interview board appointed by the Secretary, 
Ministry of Women and child affairs in accordance with the 
available number of vacancies. the structural interview will be 
held in accordance with the approved marking scheme of the 
Public Service 
commission. (See chapter 06). 
02. Terms of engagement and Service Conditions :
 (i) t his post is permanent, pensionable and the selected 
candidates are liable to contribute to the Widows' and 
Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' 
Pension Scheme. 
 (ii) t his appointment is subject to probationary period of 
three years. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be 
passed within three years from the date of recruitment 
for the post of Research Officer Grade II. 
 (iii) i n accordance with Public administration circular No. 
01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 all officers appointed must 
achieve other state languages efficiency within five 
years of appointed to state service in addition to state 
language of recruited to Public Service and officers 
recruiment other than an official language must achieve 
due official language proficiency within the probation 
period. 
 (iv)  t his appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service commission, Establishments code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations of the Government and other 
departmental orders. 
03. Required Qualifications :
3.1 Educational and Other Qualifications : 
 * Should have obtained a special degree for Sociology, 
Economics or Statistics from a university recognized 
by the 
university Grants commission and should 
have possessed a Post Graduate degree for relevant 
subject field. 
 * Should have conducted Post Graduate level 
researches relevant to the subjects like Sociology and 
Psychology. 
3.2
 experience :
 Should have at least 02 year experiences on researches 
and providing data. 
3.3 Physical Qualifications : 
  Every candidate should be phsyical and mental order to 
serve in any part of the island and to discharge duties 
and functions of the post. 
3.4 Other Qualifications : 
 * Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 * a pplicants should have excellent moral character.
 * Applicants should have fulfilled all required qualifications 
in every respect by the date stated in the notice.  
04. Age limit.– applicants should not be less than twenty one 
(21) years and not more than Thirty five (35) years of age as at the 
closing date of applications. 
05. Salary Scale.– the monthly salary scale of Rs. 17,680 
-10x320 -11x365 -15x450 - Rs. 31,645 is entitled to this post. 
(MN 6-2006- A salary group is P. A. C. No. 6/2006(IV) dated 
24.08.2007).
06. 
the following marking scheme is based for the structured 
interview :
 Subject Maximum 
  marks
01. Additional educational qualifications 30
02. Language Proficiency 15
03. additional experiences 20
04. Other Qualifications 20
 *  conduction of other researches relevant to 
  the field except the research for Post 
  Graduate degree
 *  Presenting field research papers and reports 
  relevant to the post
05. computer literacy 10
06. Skills at the interview 05
   total 100
07. Identity of the Candidates.– Applicants who have fulfilled 
all required qualifications in every respect will only be summoned 
for the structural interview. In order to confirm the identity at the 
interview following identity cards will be accepted : 
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner 
of Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
08. Forwarding Applications : 
 (i) a  specimen application is given at the end of this 
notice. application should be prepared by including 
from 01 to 08 in the first page and the rest is in the 
other pages and it should be filled by the candidate's 
own legible hand writing. Duly certified copies of the 
certificate should be enclosed with the application. 
Originals and duly certified copies of the certificates 
should be produced at the interview. 
 (ii) Signature of the candidate should be attested by a 
Principal of a Government School/Justice of the  
Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-law/Notary 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
255
Public/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces or 
an officer holding a permanent post in Government is 
not than monthly salary of Rs. 22,935.
 (iii) a pplicants who are already in Public Service or local 
government service should forward their application 
through their Heads of respective departments.
 (iv) a pplications not comply with the specimen attached 
hereto will be rejected. any complaint with regard to 
the loss or delay of applications will not be accepted. 
09. Furnishing false Information.– if it is found that the 
information furnished by the candidate are false or wrong prior to 
recruitment, his candidature will be cancelled. 
any of such false 
or wrong information revealed after the recruitment action will 
be taken to dismiss from the service subject to the relevant cause 
of action. 
10. 
in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this notice, the Sinhala text shall be 
accepted. 
11. Secretary of Ministry of Women and child affairs reserves 
the right to fill or not to fill the vacancies. 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Women and child affairs. 
Ministry of Women and child affairs, 
05th floor, Sethsiripaya Stage ii, 
battaramulla, 
on the day of 2016. 
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN 
(For office use only)  
Ministry of WoMen and Child affairs
reCruitMent for the post of researCh offiCer of field/offiCe 
serviCe Category i 
01. Name of the applicant : 
  (i) Name of following initials (in English block letters) 
:––––––––––––.
  (ii) Name in full (in English block letters) :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. address and telephone No. : 
  (i) Official Address :––––––––––––.
   t elephone No. :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Private address :––––––––––––.
   t elehphone No. :––––––––––––.
   Mobile No. :––––––––––––.
03. d ate of birth : 
 year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––.,  date :–––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of applications : 
 years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  days :–––––––––.
05. Nic No. :––––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. c ivil status :––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualifications : 
  (i) Special degree :––––––––––––.
  (ii) u niversity :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Effective date of the degree :––––––––––––.
  (iv) Medium :––––––––––––.
  (i) Post Graduate degree :––––––––––––.
  (ii) u niversity :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Effective date of the degree :––––––––––––.
  (iv) Medium :––––––––––––.
09. Research topic conducted in Post Graduate level :–––––––––.
10. d etails of the experience : 
  Institution Designation Period of Service
11. Proficiency in Computer Literacy : 
  (i) d egree :––––––––––––.
  (ii) d iploma :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Certificate Course :––––––––––––.
12. English language proficiency :
  (i) d egree :––––––––––––.
  (ii) d iploma :––––––––––––.
  (iii) Certificate Course :––––––––––––.
13. Have you ever been convicted in a court of Law for any 
offence ? 
  yes   No
  14.1 If yes, give details  :––––––––––––.
14. Certificate of the Applicant :
i, hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this 
application are true and correct. i shall not subsequently change 
any of the particulars mentioned here. i am also aware that if any 
particulars contained here in are found to be false or incorrect 
before selection the application will be cancelled and if so 
found after selection 
i am liable to be dismissed without any 
compensation subject to the relevant cause of action. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
256
15. a ttestation of the signature of the applicant : 
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..............................
....... of .................................... who submit this application is 
personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in 
my presence on .......................... 2016.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Officer Attesting. 
Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
16. Certificate of the  Head of the Department/Information : 
 (only for those who are already in the Public Service)
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................  
is serving in this Ministry/Department/Institution as a 
.............................., His/her work and conduct are satisfactory and 
that he/she has not been subject to any disciplinary action and that 
he/she can be released/cannot be released from service if selected 
for the post.  
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of department and  
 official frank. 
date :––––––––––––.
02–195
fIRST  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  fOR  OffICERS  IN  SRI  LANkA  ADmINISTRATIvE  
SERvICE,  SRI  LANkA  ENGINEERING  SERvICE,  SRI  LANkA  SCIENTIfIC SERvICE  AND 
SRI  LANkA  ARChITECTS' SERvICE  SPECIAL  ENGLISh LANGuAGE TEST fOR OffICERS IN  
SRI  LANkA   ADmINISTRATIvE  SERvICE  AND  ThE  SECOND  LANGuAGE  TEST  fOR  OffICERS  
IN  ALL  ThE  SERvICES -  2015 (II) 
it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Engineering 
Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service Special, English Language Test for officers in Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service and the Second Language test for the officers in all the Services 2015(II), shall be held in Colombo during 
weekends from 05th March 2016 to 19th March 2016, by the 
director General, Sri Lanka institute of development administration, 
under the supervision and direction of Ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils, Local Government and democratic 
Governance.
02. Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Tests which are due to be held in respect of the above services shall 
be as follows: 
 Serial  Name of the examination  Code  
 No.      
 1.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service SLAS 1 
 2.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service SLES  
 3.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service SLSS  
 4.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service SLArS 
 5.  Second Language Test for officers in all the Services  T
 6. Special English Language Test for officers Sri Lanka Administrative Service E
 7. o ther services under which the applications can be made for the above examination o ther
   
Note.– the test mentioned under 5 and 6 above shall strictly be conducted twice on the approval of the Public Service 
commission. Since one test has already been conducted this second test shall be conducted only for this occasion. 
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is compulsory 
to pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period. 
04. This examination shall be conducted by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and 
the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to the conducting the examination. candidates 
shall  be subjected to any punishment imposed by disciplinary authority for violation of these rules and regulations. 
05. applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk. the official web site of the Sri Lanka 
Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting the relevant examination 
from the sub menu “
apply online” at the right side of website's main page. 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
257
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 05th february 2016 up to 12.00 midnight on 
19th february 2016. 
06. examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not to pay the examination fees. 
at such occasions where a candidate, who has made application, has not sat for the examination even after issuing an admission by Sri 
Lanka institute of development administration that should be considered as a sitting for the examination. 
For subsequent sittings, officers shall pay the examination fee in the following manner. 
Rs. 1,000 shall be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language 
Test for officers in all the services. Rs. 500 shall be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and 
Second Language test. 
Rs. 1,000 shall be paid if the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service are sitting for one subject or more than one subject 
of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language Test whilst sitting for the Special English Test for officers in Sri Lanka 
administrative Service. 
Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the Island (except sub post offices) to be credited to the 
“SLida”account and the number of the receipt issued shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When filling the 
application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85) for payment of money to “SLida” account, “SLida” should be mentioned 
as the recipient. in the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination shall be indicated at the place for the recipient's address. 
(the code names should be as mentioned in section 02).
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including the name of the applicant as the 
remitter and the N.i.c. Number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter. 
07. Getting Admissions for the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Engineering 
Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service and the Second Language test for all the Services and Special 
English Test for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service.– 
When the applications filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the candidate shall 
keep it for further inquiries. 
candidates will be able to get their admission card of the examination by way of following the instructions 
indicated in the web page to which the candidate shall have the access once the application duly perfected is sent online. the candidate 
shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the respective Head of the Department or a deputy 
officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card certified in this manner should be submitted to the Supervisor of the 
examination. A copy of admission card certified as for that manner shall be submitted to the Head of the Department for the purpose of 
attaching to the personal file of the candidates. 
Note.– The private address, place of work and the official address shall be clearly included when filling the application online. 
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone Number           
011 - 5980236 of Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration. communication can be made through this line from 8.30 a.m up 
to 4.15 p.m. during working days of the week from 05th February 2016 up to 19th February 2016. 
09. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for the 
examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number 011 -5980236. Candidates 
shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.– candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of  Persons. 
 (ii)  a valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of 
the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration. 
11. the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English media. if it is found that a candidate has appeared for the 
examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant shall be cancelled. a candidate shall 
not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
258
12. Scheme of examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows. Duration of each 
question paper is three (03 hours). At least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each subject by a candidate to pass this Efficiency 
bar Examination. 
 
12.1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "G" of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service Minute published in the Gazette extraordinary dated 23.12.2013)
  
  The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination are given below : 
 Serial  Subjects  Duration  Subject 
 Number    Number 
01  Law constitutional Law and administrative Law 03 hours  01-i
  the Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 01-ii
  criminal Law Evidence Law 03 hours 01-iii
02  a dministration  03 hours 02-i
03  Economics and Sociology  03 hours  03 
04  Financial management and procurement procedure in the Public Sector 03 hours 04
12.1.1 Law (100 marks)
  t hree question papers based on the following : 
  first (I) question paper –
  Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01-I)  
 (i) the structure of the constitution of Sri Lanka and the Republic constitution of 1978 with the historical 
development. 
 (ii) the Executive, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, cabinet of Ministers and Public Service. 
 (iii) administration of Justice. 
 (iv) Judicial control over administration. 
 (v) directive Principles of the State Policy and fundamental duties. 
 (vi) delegated Legislation.
 (vii) Liability of the State and the Public authorities. 
 (viii) fundamental Rights.
  Second (II) question paper -
  The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-II)  
 (i)  administration of Justice
 (ii) the Legal History of Sri Lanka 
 (iii)  The Organization of the Courts 
 (iv)  the courts ordinance (chapter 6) 
 (v)  Administration of Justice Act No. 44 of 1971 
   t hird (iii) question paper -
   c riminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 01-iii)  
 (i) t he Penal code 
 (ii)  the Evidence ordinance. 
A candidate shall be required to obtain 35% of marks for each subject and an average of 40% of the total marks 
allocated for the 03 subjects to pass the subject of law. 
12.1.2. Administration (Subject No. 02-I -100 marks) 
  a  question paper based on the following: 
 (i)  Office and field organization and methods of organization ; 
 (ii)  f ollowing chapters of the Establishment code 
  c hapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, X i, XX iii, XXV , XXVi, XXV ii, XXV iii, XX iX, XXX, XXX i, XXX ii, 
XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii), Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
259
 12.1.3. Economics and Sociology (Subject No. 03- 100 marks) 
  t his question paper consists of two parts. 
  f irst (i) part - Economics 
 (i)  Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value,  Production and Distribution; 
 (ii)  Money, Production and Distribution ; 
 (iii)  Economic background of Sri Lanka and policies, strategies and programmes relevant to economic 
development with special reference to the Economic Structure of Sri Lanka. 
  Second (ii) part – Sociology  
  (i)   Social Structure, Organization and Functions; 
  (ii) Human Relationships and Groupings; 
  (iii)  Kinship, Marriage and the Family; 
  (iv)  Rural and Urban Society; 
  (v)  Social Stratification and Differentiations; 
  (vi)  Social Control; 
  (vii)  culture, Religion, Morals and Values. 
  a candi date shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) marks for each part to pass the subject 
of Economic and Sociology. 
12.1.4. Financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector (Subject No. 04-100 marks)
  A question paper based on the following :
 (i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka; 
  * constitutional Provisions Relating to Public financial Management 
  * Parliamentary control over Public finance  
  * Meaning of fund 
  * consolidated fund and its operation 
  * object and Methods of appropriation 
  * contingencies fund 
  * other funds and their operation 
  * Government Revenue 
  * Powers and functions of the Minister of finance 
  * Powers and functions of the treasury 
  * Warrants and imprest authority 
  * auditor General, his Powers and functions 
  * committee on Public accounts 
  * committee on Public Enterprises 
 (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their 
Powers and function 
 (iii) i nternal audit 
 (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management; 
  * Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
  * Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and Programmes 
  * Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of them 
  * Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 
 (v)  Making changes of approved Estimates  
  * implementation of Virement Procedure
  * Management of Public Sector cadres and Salaries 
  * total cost Estimates and Revisions 
  * Supplementary Estimates 
 (vi)  Losses and waivers of government properties 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
260
 (vii)  Miscellaneous accounting Matters 
 (viii)  delegation of functions for financial control 
 (ix)  custody of Public Money and bank accounts Procedure 
 (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
  * Government Procurement Procedure
  * Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule ''iii'' of Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated 11.11.2013)
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No.  Subjects  Duration  Subject  No. 
01   a dministration  03 hours  02-ii 
02   f inancial Systems  03 hours  05-i 
03   Department/establishment methodologies Since this examination is conducted by the Head of the 
   institution, particulars in this regard are not published in
   this notification.
The minimum marks required to pass each subjecte is 40.
12.2.1 administration (Subject No. 02-ii -100 marks)
 a question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on V olume i of the 
Establishments code published in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume ii of the Establishments code published in 
1999 and the Procedural Rules of Public Service commission (subjected to timely revisions). 
12.2.2 financial Systems (Subjects No. 05-i - 100 marks)
 a question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on all the chapters in financial 
Regulations published in 1992 except chapter iX and X and criteria for national procurement guidelines (subjected 
to timely revisions) 
12.3  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka Scientific 
Service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014)
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka Architects' 
Service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014)
 Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
    Subject   Duration  Subject  Number 
financial Systems   03 hours  05-ii
administration   03 hours  02-iii
departmental regulations Since this examination is conducted by the Head of the 
   institution, particulars in this regard are not published in
   this notification.
12.3.1  financial Systems : (Subject No. 05-ii - 100 marks)
  a question paper based on following. 
 (i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka ; 
  * constitutional Provisions relating to Public financial Management
  * Parliamentary control over Public finance
  * Meaning of fund
  * consolidated fund and its operation 
  * object and methods of appropriation 
  * contingencies fund
  * other funds and their operation 
  * Government Revenue
  * Powers and functions of the Minister of finance

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
261
  * Powers and functions of the treasury
  * Warrants and imprest authority
  * auditor General, his powers and functions
  * committee on Public accounts
  * committee on Public Enterprises
 (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their 
Powers and function.
 (iii) internal audit.
 (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management.
  * Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
  * Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and Programmes
  * Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and Prioritization of them
  * Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
 (v) Making changes of approved Estimates
  * implementation of Virement Procedure
  * Management of Public Sector cadres and Salaries
  * total cost Estimates and Revisions
  * Supplementary Estimates
 (vi) Losses and waivers of government properties
 (vii) Miscellaneous accounting matters
 (viii) Delegation of functions for financial management
 (ix) custody of public money and bank accounts Procedure
 (x) Government Procurement process 
  * Government Procurement Procedure
  * Government Procurement Guidelines
 
  Note.– The candidates shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.3.2 administration : (Subject No. 02-iii -100 marks)
  a question paper based on the following. 
 (i) following chapters of the Establishment code.
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, 
XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii), Procedural rules of Public Service commission.
 (ii) Procedural Rules of Public Service commission published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for the subject. 
 12.4  Second Language Test for all services :
  this examination consists of two parts as written test and oral test. only the candidates who pass the written test 
shall be called for the oral test corresponding to the relevant subject. a candidate shall be required to obtain at 
least 40% marks to pass the written examination. The subjects of the written test are as follows. 
  Subject  Duration  Subject Number 
  Second Language  test - Sinhala  02 hours  06 
  Second Language test - tamil  02 hours  07 
  Second Language test - English  02 hours  08 
   
Note:- the second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala medium shall 
be Tamil Language. The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil 
Medium shall be Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English 
Language is required to pass Sinhala & 
tamil Language tests. 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
262
 12.5  Special English Language test for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Subject No. -09) :
  the syllabus for this subject shall be as follows : 
 (i)  LISTeNING AND SPeAKING SKILLS 
  the candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following Language functions. 
 · General Greetings and introductions 
 · Giving and Getting information 
 · advising, Suggesting and Expressing opinions 
 · describing Events and Situations 
 · telephone skills 
 · interviewing skills 
 · Meeting 
 · Listening and Note taking skills 
 (ii)  eNGLISH GRAMMAR 
  A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the Spoken and the Written language is 
expected from the candidate. 
 · tense and Number 
 · Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex) 
 · Relative clauses 
 · Reported Speech 
 ·  adjectives and adverbs 
 ·  determiners 
 ·  Prepositions 
 (iii)  WRITING SKILLS 
  the knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study
  · internal modes of communication 
  · formal correspondence skills 
  · Writing Descriptions/Explanations 
  · Summary writing skills 
  · Report Writing skills 
  · Meeting Minutes/ Agendas/Invitations 
  · comprehension 
 (iv)  ReADING SKILLS 
  Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/ written interpretation is expected. 
  · Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text; 
  · Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written).
  · understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage. 
  Note : A candidate shall be required to obtain at least of 40% marks for this subject.
13. the time table of the examination is as follows : 
 Serial Name  of  the  Subject  Subject  Date  Time 
 No.  e xamination   No.   
 01  1st  Efficiency  Bar   Constitutional Law and  01 -i 05.03. 2016  9.00 a. m. -12.00 p. m.
  Examination for  administrative Law    
  Officers in Sri  Lanka  Legal Systems of Sri Lanka  01-II  06.03. 2016  9.00 a. m. -12.00 p. m.
  a dministrative  criminal Law and Evidence Law 01-iii 12.03. 2016  9.00 a. m. -12.00 p. m.
  Service  Administration  02-I  05.03. 2016  01.00 p. m. - 04.00 p. m.
   Economics and Sociology 03  06.03. 2016  01.00 p. m. - 04.00 p.m.
   Financial management in the public 04  13.03. 2016  09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
    sector and procurement process

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
263
 02  1st  Efficiency  bar  f inancial Systems  05-i 05.03. 2016  09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  Examination  for  administration     
  Officers in Sri Lanka   02-II 05.03. 2016  01.00 p. m. - 04.00 p.m.
  Engineering Service     
 03  1st Efficiency Bar  Financial Systems  05-II  12.03. 2016  09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
  Examination  for  administration     
  Officers in Sri Lanka   02-III 12.03. 2016   01.00 p. m. - 04.00 p.m. 
  Scientific Service      
 04  1st  Efficiency  Bar   Financial Systems  05-II  12.03. 2016   09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
  Examination  for  administration     
  Officers in Sri Lanka   02-III 12.03. 2016   01.00 p. m. - 04.00 p.m.
  a rchitects' Service     
 
 05  Second Language test   Second Language test - Sinhala  06  19.03.2016 09.00 a. m. - 11.00 a. m. 
  for officers in all the  Second Language Test - Tamil  07  19.03.2016 11.15a. m. - 01.15 p. m.
  services Second Language test - English 08 19.03.2016 02.00 p. m. - 04.00 p. m.  
 06 English Language Special English  09 12.03.2016 1.00 p. m. - 04.00 p. m.
  Test for officers in Sri      
  Lanka administrative       
  Service     
    
14. 14.1 Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and Second Language 
test shall be made in the following manner. 
 Examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1 st Efficiency Bar Examination  Law Should be a Barister, Advocate in a Supreme
for Officers in Sri Lanka   Court, A Graduate in Law from a university 
 administrative Service  accepted by university Grants commission
 Second Language Test Second Language Test - Sinhala  (i)  Should have passed the first language
 Second Language Test - Tamil     or second language at G.CE. (O/L). 
   (ii)  Should have successfully completed a 
    basic or higher language course of the  
    Department of Official Languages. 
   (iii) Should have successfully completed a  
    language course of department of 
    Official Languages at preliminary or 
    higher level. 
   (iv) Should have passed the optional Sinhala 
    or Tamil subject at G.C.E. (O/L)
 Second Language test - English  Should have obtained an ordinary pass or 
   above for English language at G. C. E. (O/L)
Note:  1. Officers who have been recruited on or after 02.01.2012 are not required to sit for the Second Language Test 
mentioned in this Examination Notification in order to acquire proficiency in other official language according 
the provisions of their letters of appointment, but they should acquire the proficiency in other official language as 
per the provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014. 
 2. The exemption for Sociology or Economics in the First Efficiency Bar shall be made applicable to the officers of 
Sri Lanka Administrative Service recruited from 01.07.2012 to 23.12.2013 under the Service Minute No. 1419/3 
dated 14.11.2005.
 Serial Name  of  the  Subject  Subject  Date  Time 
 No.  e xamination   No.   

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
264
 14.2  Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5(b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers were 
required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes before the effective 
date of (01.07.2012) of the above service minute, the officers who are unable to pass the same as at 31.12.2014 
should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations held 
under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects of each Efficiency Bar Examination as per 
the existed service minute. 
corresponding subjects are given in the following table. 
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14th of November 2005 The New Service Minute dated 23.12.2013
administration  administration 
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination 
financial Management in the Public Sector  Public Sector financial Management and Procurement process
Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examination First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination 
(a) Economics or Economics and Sociology
(b) Sociology First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination 
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination 
Law Law
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination 
English Link Language (English) Proficiency 
First (I) Efficiency Bar Examination Second (II) Efficiency Bar Examination/English 
  Language Special test
15. Issuance of results: The results of all the candidates who have applied/ sat for this examination shall be published in the 
web site of the Ministry of Public administration and Management. Publishing of the results in the website of the Ministry shall be 
considered as an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the Circular Number SP/SB/1/13 and dated 13th October 2009 of 
Secretary to H. E. the President on the e-documents and e- communication. accordingly, Heads of the departments shall include the 
relevant copies of the results sheets of the examination published in the website of the Ministry to the personal files of the officers. It is 
not allowed to re-scrutinize the results of the examination. 
16. 
any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public administration and Management.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Notification, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail. 
 
 J. dadallage,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration and Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
22nd January, 2016.
02–211

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
265
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ... 137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ... 1,300  0
 two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'02'05
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2016
266
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. 
it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 fEbRuARy 05.02.2016 f riday — 22.01.2016 f riday 12 noon
  12.02.2016 f riday –– 29.01.2016 f riday 12 noon
  19.02.2016 f riday –– 05.02.2016 f riday 12 noon
  26.02.2016 f riday –– 12.02.2016 f riday 12 noon
 mARCh 04.03.2016 Friday — 19.02.2016 Friday 12 noon
  11.03.2016 f riday –– 26.02.2016 f riday 12 noon
  18.03.2016 Friday –– 04.03.2016 Friday 12 noon
  24.03.2016 Thursday –– 11.03.2016 Friday 12 noon
 APRIL 01.04.2016 Friday — 18.03.2016 Friday 12 noon
  08.04.2016 Friday –– 24.03.2016 Thursday 12 noon
  15.04.2016 Friday –– 01.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  22.04.2016 Friday –– 08.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  29.04.2016 Friday –– 15.04.2016 Friday 12 noon
  
 W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2016.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.