

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
41
41
wxl 1"793 - 2013 ckjdß 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'01'11
No. 1,793 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 11, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 43
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st February, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th
January, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
42
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
43
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
PUBLIC  SERVICES  COMMISSION
Open  Competitive Examination  for  Recruitment to Class  II  Grade  II   of  Sri  Lanka Scientific  Service  – 2013
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment t o
Class II Grade II of Sri Lanka Scientific Service to be recruited for Vacancies existing in the following Government Department s as
indicated against each. The number of the Vacancies is 67.
2. When the applicants apply for more than one post mentioned below, separate applications should not be sent for each post
applied for and the post applied should be indicated in the application on the order of preference as given in this notification. For example,
a candidate who wishes to apply for the vacancies of the post of Assistant Director at the Department of Export Agriculture as the first
option, Research Officer as the second option and Assistant Forest Conservator in the Department of Forest conservation as the third
option, should indicate the relevant Code Numbers as 051,052 061 in the "Code Number" Column of the application.
Department Vacant Posts Code
Number
1. Department of National Zoological Gardents Assistant Director 02 011
2. Department of Government Analyst Assistant Government Analyst 03 021
Assistant Government Analyst of Questioned 01 022
Documents
3. Department of Irrigation Assistant Soil Chemist 01 031
4. Department of Labour Research Officer 03 041
5. Department of Export Agriculture Assistant Director 02 051
6. Department of Forest Conservation Research Officer 05 052
7. Department of Meteorology Assistant Conservator of Forests 05 061
8. Department of National Museums Meteorologist 14 071
9. Department of Health Services Assistant Director, (Zoology) 01 081
Bio Chemist 01 091
Physiologist 12 092
Pharmaceutical Analyst (Chemical) 01 093
Research Officer (Natural Products) 03 094
Research Officer (Entomology) 01 095
Research Officer (Vaccinations and Productions) 01 096
Research Officer - Microbiology (Bacteriology 04 097
and Virology)
Research Officer (Bio Chemistry) 02 098
Regional Anti Malaria Officer 02 099
Chemist 02 910
Scientific Officer 01 911
3. The term "Secretary" in this notification shall mean the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs, the
term "service" shall mean Sri Lanka Scientific Service.
4. Written Examination.– The examination shall consists of following question papers :
(i) Intelligent test
(ii) General question paper.
5. Date of Examination.– This examination will be conducted in May 2013 in Colombo. The Secretary reserves the rights either
to cancel or postpone this examination subject to the instructions of the Public Service Commission.
6. Oral Test.– Secretary shall determine the date for structured oral test or general interview to be conducted for the candidates
who have secured an aggregate of marks at the highest level prescribed by the Public Service Commission as adequate out of the applicants
who appeared for all the question papers of the written examination. (The nature of the interview to be conducted shall be dete rmined in
accordance with the approved scheme of recruitment relevant to each post).
7. Number and the effective date of appointments shall be determined as per the orders of the Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
44
8. Service Conditions .– Candidates who are selected subject to the general conditions which govern the appointments in the
public service, terms and conditions imposed in Scientific Service Minute (published in the Gazette Extraordinary of Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 509/07 dated 07th June 1988) and the revisions made to the said service minute or revisions to be made in the
future, shall be appointed into Grade II Class II of the Service. Accordingly this post shall be permanent and pensionable. The  probation
period shall be 3 years. Officers are required to pass the 1st Efficiency Bar within the above 3 years and pass the 2nd Efficie ncy Bar
within 6 years from the date of appointment. In addition to the above they are required to achieve the proficiency in second la nguage as
per Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007 before the lapse of 5 years from the date of appointment.
8.1 The Public Service Commission shall reserve the right to cancel the appointment of the applicants who fail to assume
duties of the post on due date and/or reject or avoid assuming duties of a post or and area where he/she is appointed.
9. Structure and the monthly salary scale.– As per salary scale SL I 2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated
25.04.2006 SL I - Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
Recruitment shall be made by this examination to Class II Grade II of Sri Lanka Scientific Service.
10. Health and Character.– A candidate must satisfy the Secretary that he is duly qualified in respect of health and that he has
an excellent moral character. He must possess good eye sight and be physically fit for service in any part of the Island. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
11. Qualifications.– Candidates who apply for the examination :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be graduate from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
(iii) The effective date of the degree and the date of satisfying qualifications prescribed by this notification shall be a date
before the closing date of calling applications.
(iv) Following qualifications shall be fulfilled for the post applied on the order as mentioned in para 2 above.
Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
1. Department of National 1. Assistant Director
Zoological Gardens
2. Department of Government Analyst 1. Assistant Government
Analyst
2. Assistant Government
Analyst of Questioned
Documents
3. Department of Irrigation 1. Assistant Soil Chemist
(a) Honors Degree in Zoology from a recognized
University ; or
(b) General Degree (with a 1st or 2nd Class) from a
recognized University, offering Chemistry, Zoology
and Botany as subject.
(a) Special Degree in Chemistry from a recognized
University with a 1st or 2nd Class ; or
(b) Special Degree in Chemistry from a recognized
University with M.Sc. or P. H. D. in Chemistry from
a recognized University ; or
(c) A basic Degree from a recognized University with
Chemistry as a subject and either a M.Sc or a Ph D. in
Chemistry from a recognized University
Honours degree in Science, Physics, Chemistry with a
1st or 2nd class, from a recognized Univeristy.
(a) Special Degree in either science or Agriculture with
Chemistry or Agro-chemistry as either the main subject
or the subsidiary subject, from a recognized University ;
or
B. Sc. Degree with a 1st or a 2nd Class with Chemistry
or Agro -science as a subject.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
45
4. Department of Labour 1. Research Officer
(V ocational Health)
5. Department of Export Agriculture 1. Assistant Director
2. Research Officer
6. Department of Forest 1. Assistant Conservator
Conservation of Forest
Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
Note.– Internal Officers who have completed a satisfactory
service of not less than 10 years as a Research Assistant
or Soil Surveyor and have obtained a General Degree in
Science with Chemistry from a recognized University
shall become qualified for applying along with external
candidates.
(a) Special Degree in Chemistry with a 1st or 2nd Class
from a recognized University ; or
(b) Membership of the Sri Lanka Institute for Chemistry
or the Royal Institute for Chemistry of Great britain
or Ireland ; or
(c) A Post-graduate Degree in either Chemistry, Industrial
Toxicology, Industrial Hygiene or Applied Chemistry
pertaining to Environmental Pollution.
(a) Degree in Agriculture from a recognized university ; or
(b) A Post Graduate Degree in Agriculture from a recognized
university ; or
(c) (i) A Degree in Science with a 1st or 2nd Class from
a recognized University offering one of the
following subjects viz . Botany or Biology,
Chemistry, Zoology, Economics, Mathematics,
Biometry or Bio Chemistry ; or
(ii) Degree in Botany or Chemistry from a recognized
University offering one of the following subject
viz. Botany, Chemistry, Zoology, Economics,
Mathematics, Biometry or Bio Chemistry as
subsidiary subjects.
(a) Degree in Agriculture from a recognized university ; or
(b) One of the following degrees from a recgonized
university,
A Special Degree with
(i) Botany as the main subject, offering Chemistry
or Zoology as a subsidiary subject ; or
(ii) Mathematics as the main subject, offering Botany,
Zoology, Chemistry or Physics as a subsidiary
subject ; or
(iii) Chemistry as the main subject, offering Botany
or Zoology as a subsidiary subject ; or
(iv) Post-graduate Degree relevant to Agriculture ; or
(v) General Degree with Mathematics and Biology as
subjects.
(a) A degree in Science with 1st or 2nd Class from a
recognized university offering Botany as a subject and
Zoology or Chemistry as subsidiary subject ; or

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
46
7. Department of Meteorology 1. Meteorologist
8. Department of National  Museum 1. Assistant Director
(Zoology)
9. Department of Health Services 1. Biochemist
Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
Offering Zoology as a subject and Botany as a
subsidiary subject ; or
(b) Degree in Science with a 1st or 2nd Class from a
recognized University, offering Biology as a subject.
(c) Honors Degree in Agriculture with a 1st or a 2nd Class,
from recognized University ; or
(d) Degree in Forestry with a 1st or a 2nd Class, from
recognized University ; or
(e) Post graudate degree in forestry.
(a) Special Degree in Science offering Physics or
Mathematics as main subject, from a recognized
University (The candidates who have a special degree
in mathematics, shall pass Physics as a subject at the
General Aptitude Test in Science ; or
(b) General Degree in Science with 1st or 2nd Class offering
Physics and Mathematics as subjects, from a
recognized University ; or
(c) Ph.D. or MSc./M.Phil. Degree on Meteorology or
Physics from a recognized University
Note :
(i) Officers of Sri Lanka Technological Service who have
completed a service period of 10 years in the
Department of Meteorology, with satisfactory service
period of 5 years immediately preceding to the date of
promotion and possess a B. Sc. General Degree with
Physics ; and
Mathematics as subjects from a recognized University
are also eligible for applying, for an appointment with
external candidates.
(a) Degree in Zoology with a 1st class or a 2nd class
honours from a recognized university or a higher degree ;
and
(b) A Credit pass for Sinhala language or Sinhala Literature
at S. S. C. or G . C. E. O/L or other higher examination.
(a) Honors Degree in Chemistry with a 1st or 2nd Class
from a recognized University or equivalent
qualification ; or
(b) General Degree in Science with Chemistry as a subject
and a Postgraduate Degree such as Ph. D., M.Sc. in
Chemistry from a recognized University.
Note :
Medical Lab Technologist, who have completed a
satisfactory service period of 10 years in the

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
47
2. Physiologist
3. Pharmaceutical
Analyst (Chemistry)
4. Research Officer
(Natural Products
Chemistry)
5. Research Officer
(Entomology)
6. Research Officer
(V accination and
Production)
7. Research Officer
Microbiology
(Bacteriology and Virology)
Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
Department of Helath and possess a General Degree
with Chemistry from a recognized University are also
eligible for applying to this post.
(a) Honors Degree (special) in Physics from a recognized
University ; or
(b) Special Degree in Physics or B. Sc. Degree with Physics
as a subject and 5 years' experience as Radiographer in
a recognized Institution.
(a) B. Sc. Special Degree in Chemistry ; or
(b) B. Sc. Degree with Chemistry as a subject, with Post
graduate degree in Chemistry or a related subjects from
a recognized university ; or
(c) B. Sc. Degree in Pharmacology ; or
(d) Membership of the Sri Lanka Institute for Chemistry
or the Royal Institute for Chemistry
Note :
Pharmacists and Medical Lab Technologist who have
completed at least a 10 years' service period at
Department of Health and possesses B. Sc. General
degree with chemistry as a subject, from a recognized
university are also eligible to apply.
(a) B. Sc. (Honors) Special Degree in Chemistry (with a
1st class or 2nd class) ; or
(b) B. Sc. General Degree with Chemistry as a subject,
with M. Sc. or Ph. D. (by researches on Natural
Products Chemistry)
(a) B. Sc. (Honors) Special Degree in Zoology with
Entomology as a special subject, with a 1st class or
2nd class ; or
(b) B. Sc. General Degree with a 1st class or 2nd class
(with Zoology as a subject) and M. Sc. or Ph. D.
(a) B. Sc. (Honors) Special Degree in Chemistry ; or
(b) M. Sc. Degree in Zoology with Chemistry as a subject ;
or
(c) B. Sc. General Degree with Chemistry as a subject,
with a 1st class or a 2nd class. (Post graduate degree
related to Micro Biology or Biochemistry)
(a) B. Sc. (Honors) Special Degree in Botany, with
Microbiology as a subject, with a 1st class or a 2nd
class, from a recognized university.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
48
8. Research Officer
Biochemistry
9. Regional Anti Malaria
Officer
10. Chemist
11. Scientific Officer
(v) Should be not less than 22 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 15th February 2013. Maximum age limit shall
not be applied to the internal candidates who are qualified to apply for the relevant post as mentioned in the notification.
(vi) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be permitted to sit this examination.
12. Examination Fee : The fee is Rs. 1,000. It shall be paid before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretairat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Department of Examination. The receipt obtained from th e
Department Profession Educational and Other Qualifications
(b) B. Sc. General Degree with 1st or 2nd Class with Botany
as subject from a recognized university and M. Sc.
Degree or a Ph. D. in Microbiology ; or
(c) B. Sc. Degree with 1st or 2nd Class from a recognized
university and Post graduate qualifications in
Microbiology.
(a) B. Sc. (Honors) Special Degree in Chemistry with a
1st or 2nd Class ; or
(b) B. Sc. (Honors) Special Degree with M. Sc. or Ph. D.
on Clinical Chemistry ; or
(c) B. Sc. General Degree (wtih Chemistry) and M. F. B.
Degree in Clinical Bio Chemistry.
(a) B. Sc. (Special) Degree in Zoology or Biology with
Entomology or Parasitology as special subjects from a
recognized University.
(Preference will be given for those who have 1st or 2nd
class Honors Degree) ; or
(b) Ph. D. or M. Sc. Degree in Entomology or Parasitology
from a recognized University ; or
(c) Three years' experience in recognized institution in
Applied Entomology or Parasitology with B. Sc.
General Degree from a recognized University
(Recognized Institution shall mean Universities,
Government Departments, Public Corporations and
Statutory Boards)
(a) B. Sc. Degree in Chemistry or equivalent qualification
such as membership of the Sri Lanka Institute of
Chemistry and 3 years' experience in Food Analysis ;
or
(b) M. Sc. Degree in Food Science and Technology or
equivalent degree with 2 years' experience in Food
Analysis.
(a) A holder of a degree in Chemistry with a 1st class or
2nd class Honors from recognized university ; or
(b) General Degree with both Physics and Chemistry as
subjects from a recognized university equivalent to the
above ; or
(c) Membership of the Sri Lanka Institute for Chemistry
or the Royal Institute for Chemistry of Great Britain
or Ireland ; or
(d) Possession of Higher Academic qualification in
Chemistry.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
49
district Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat should be pasted to the relevant cage in the application form. This fee is nonrefun dable. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
13. Method of Application :
(a) The application shall be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and shall be prepared by the candidate
himself on paper of size 81/2" x 12" (A4) using both sides. It should be specially noted that the application forms shall
be so prepared that cages 1.0 to 3.9 appear on the first page and cages 3.10 to 5.0 appear in the second page and
remaining cages in the third page. Candidate shall fill the application in his own hand writing. Applications that do not
comply with the specimen and that are not complete in every aspect, shall be rejected without notice. (It is advisable to
keep a photocopy of the application with candidate). Candidates shall be satisfied to the effect that the application is
strictly in accordance with the specimen in the Examination Notification. If otherwise the application will be rejected.
(b) The application shall be in the language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination. it is essential to mention
the name of examination in English language as well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil mediums.
(c) The completed application form for the examination shall be sent by Registered Post to reach the Commissioner-
General of Examination, (Organization and Foreign Examination Branch) Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 15th
February 2013, The words "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Class II, Grade II of Sri Lanka
Scientific Service 2013" shall be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Any application received after the closing date will not be accepted.
(d) Candidate's signature in the application form shall have been attested by a principal of a Government School, a Justice
of the Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, an
Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(e) No complaint that an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(f) The receipt of the applications shall not be informed. A notice will be published in the newspapers by the Department
of Examination as soon as Admission Cards are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not received even after 2
or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner
specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to send certified photocopies of the application form and the
receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration attached to your letter to reach the Department of Examination.
In case of applicants outside Colombo, a fax number shall be indicated in the letter of request for sending the admission
card. (Fax No. 011-2784232)
14. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue admission Cards to all persons who have sent their application
which have been duly perfected. A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his Admission Card
in whcih his signature has been certified, to the Supervisor of the Examination Center. A candidate who fails to produce
his Admission Card will not be permitted to sit the examination. The decision of the Commissioner-General of
Examinations shall be the final on any matter relating to holding examinations and issuing result.
(b) A candidate msut sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him/her under his/her index number. Every
candidate must get his/her signature on the admission card attested in advance and hand it over to the Supervisor on the
first day he presents himself for the examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published at the
beginning of the Gazette. Candidates are subject to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting the examination. Further, they are liable to be subject to a punishment imposed by him for
breach of these rules.
(c) The post and the service station of the all applicants at the time of applying for the examination shall be applied for all
matters pertaining to examination and any change occur after sending applications shall not be considered.
Note.– The issuance of an Admission Card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite
qualifications to sit the examination.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
50
15. Identity of Candidates  : A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers, for this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A Valid passport
16. Penalty of Furnishing false information : If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are false,
or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
17. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to instructions
given by the Public Service Commission.
18. Scheme of Examination and Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English. The language medium of examination indicated initially shall
not be allowed to change subsequently ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination either in the language in which he has obtained the qualifying degree or in an official
language ;
(c) If the candidate has passed the subjects of the qualifying degree in two or more languages, he shall sit the examination
either in the language in which he has passed most the subjects of the degree or an official language ;
(d) A candidate who possesses a special degree and has passed the main subject in one language and the additional subject in
another language should sit the examination in the language in which he/she has passed the main subject or an official
language.
Note :
(i) The term "qualifying degree" in ( b) and (c) above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in paragraph 11;
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language ;
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the application.
19. Method of Selection.– A written examination in the following subjects :
1. Intelligence Test : 100 Marks - Duration - 1 hour
2. General Knowledge : 100 Marks - Duration - 3 hours
(Minimum marks required for a pass in each subject is 40%)
20. Method of appointment :
(i) Recruitment shall strictly be made on the order of merit of the results of a written examination conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Secretary of Ministry Public Administration and Home
Affairs as decided by him for the post of Assistant Soil Chemist of the Department of Irrigation, Research Officer of
Labour Department, Assistant Conservator of Forests of the Department of Forest Conservation, Assistant Director
of the Department of Museums, Assistant Government Analyst of Questioned Documents, Research Officer of
Department of Export Agriculture and all the posts of Scientific Service which are under the Department of Health.
Verification of qualifications shall be done by an interview board approved by the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Selection shall be made on the order of merit of candidates who have secured highest aggregate marks on the results of
a written examination conducted as mentioned above and on the results of structured interview conducted by an
interview board approved by the Public Services Commission, for the post of Meteorologist of the Department of
Meteorology, Assistant Government Analyst of the Department of Government Analyst and Assistant Director of
the Department of Export Agriculture. (The marking scheme and the marks to be allocated shall be approved by
appointing authority/Public Services Commission at the early state of recruitment. Presenting the self at the interview
should not necessarily mean that he or she has fulfilled requisite qualifications for an appointment to be awarded.)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
51
21. Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks)
This question paper is designed to measure the ability of candidate on critical reasoning, analyzing problems, making
decisions and judgment.
(ii) General Knowledge (Duration 3 hours - 100 marks)
This question paper will consist of structured questions regarding wide scientific matters covering all the subjects.
22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
On the order of the Public Service Commission.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 7,
24th December, 2012.
Specimen Application
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS II GRADE II OF THE
SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC SERVICE - 2013
1.0 Medium : (For office use only)
Language Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
* The application shall be filled in the medium in which the candidate appear for the examination.
2.0 The Post/Posts applied for :
Department Post Code No.
3.0 Personal Information :
3.1 Name with initials at the end  in English block capitals :——––—.
Examples : RANASINGHE R. M. A. K.
3.2 Full name in English block capitals :——––—.
3.3 Name in full (in Sinhal/Tamil) :——––—.
3.4 National Identity Card No. :
3.5 Permanent address in English block capitals (The admission card will be sent to this address) :——––—.
3.6 Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :——––—.
3.7 Postal city (in English block capitals) :——––—.
3.8 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
52
3.9 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil  - 2, I. Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(indicated the reelvant number in the cage)
3.10 Civil status :
Married - 1
Unmarried - 2 (indicated the reelvant number in the cage)
3.11 Date of Birth :
Year : Month :                       Date :
3.12 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years: Months : Days :
4.0 Qualifications :
(i) Effective date of the Degree :–––––––––––. (Please read para II (IV) of the notification carefully to see whether you are
qualified in this respect)
Examination/Degree Class Y ear Subjects University/Institute
(ii) Professional Qualifications :––––––––.
(a) Registration Number :––––––––––.
(b) External/Internal :––––––––––.
(c) Index Number of the examination :––––––––––.
(d) Language medium of examination :––––––––––.
(iii) The highest examination passed :
Sinhala :––––––––.
Tamil :––––––––.
English :––––––––.
(iv) Particulars of occupations engaged in/trainings obtained, after leaving school (dates of assuming duties and date of resignation
and reasons for resignation shall be stated) :––––––––––.
(v) Particulars of the post holding at present :
(a)  Post :———.
(b) Department/Institution :———.
(c) Date of appointment :———.
(d) Whether on permanent/pensionable/non pensionable/temporary basis :———.
(e) Salary Scale of the post and the present salary :———.
5.0. Properly paste the cash receipt here.
Paste the receipt of the examination fee so as not to be detached
(It is advisable to keep a photocopy)
Receipt Number :——––—.
Office to which payment was made :——––—.
Date :——––—.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted in a Court of law for a criminal offence ? If so, furnish particulars of such conviction and pe nalty
imposed :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.01.2013
53
7.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the receip t
No. ............. dated ................ being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules govern ing the examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am  ineligible
according to the regulations of this examination. I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be inaccurat e and false
after appointment, I am liable to dismissal from service without any compensation. Further, I agree to be bound by the ruels an d
regulations imposed by Commissioner - General of Examinations on holding examination as well as the decisions taken in connection to
issuance of results.
 –––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—––——.
8.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (As per 13(d) of the Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certify that ..................... (full name) who submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she placed
his/her signature in my presence on ....................... and further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and  pasted the receipt
on the applications.
 –––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Date :—––——.
Name in full of the Officer Attesting the signature :—––——.
Designation :—––——.
Address :—––——.
(To be certified by placing the official stamp)
9.0  REPORT OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IF THE APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE
I certify that the particulars given in paragraph 07 above are correct/need to be amended, as shown below and the his/her work
and conduct ......................... further, he/she can be/cannot be released from the post which he/she holds at present.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department/Head
of Institution.
Designation :—––——.
(To be certified by placing the official stamp)
Date :———.
01-352
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.