

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1354
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"072 – 2018 uehs ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'05'18
No. 2,072  –  fRiday ,  May 18, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th June, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th May, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1351-B 81282- 5,403 (05/2018)
N. B.–   (i) Part i:iii of the Gazette No. 2,071 of 11.05.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2018
1352
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2018
1353
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2018
1354
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Education
PRoMotioN of officERS iN GRadE 2-1 to 
cLaSS 1 aS PER thE oLd SERVicE MiNutE of SRi 
LaNka tEachER EducatoRS' SERVicE
aPPLicatioNS are invited by the Secretary to the 
Ministry of Education for filling the existing vacancies of 
class 1 of Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service (existing in 
national colleges of education and teachers' colleges under 
the Ministry of Education) implemented with effect from 
01.01.1995 and published in the Gazette Extra ordinary  
No. 1070/13 dated 11.03.1999. in case of a  discrepancy 
exists in the contain of this Gazette notification published 
in the Sinhala, tamil and English Languages, the Sinhala 
contain will prevail.
 Date No. of vacancies
 01.01.2014 3
 01.07.2014 2
 01.01.2015 1
 01.07.2015 2
 Total 8
02. the  applications prepared according to the 
following specimen form in the notification should be 
sent by Registered post to reach the "Secretary, Ministry 
of Education, isurupaya, Battaramulla" on or before 8th 
June 2018. "Promotion to class 1 of the Sri Lanka teacher 
Educators' Service" should be mentioned on the top left 
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the applications. all 
the applicants should forward their applications through 
the respective heads of the institutions. the applications 
received after due date will be rejected.
03. Conditions of engagement in the Service :
 3.1 Selected candidates will be promoted to class i 
of Sri Lanka teacher Educators' service subject 
to general conditions pertaining to promotions 
of the government service as well as regulations 
and conditions mentioned in Sri Lanka teacher 
Educators' Service minute along with revisions 
issued from time to time with regard to them, 
the establishments' code, financial regulations 
as well as the procedural rules of the public 
service commission published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 3.2 The appointed officers shall be resided within 
the limitations of the college of education when 
accommodation facilities are provided.
 3.3 candidates selected for the posts are entitled 
to serve in any college of education/teachers' 
college as per the service requirement.
04. General Qualifications :
 4.1  if not the degree has been obtained in English 
medium as described in Section 17 of Sri Lanka 
teacher Educators' Service minute, possessing 
a credit or a higher pass for English language 
(Literature at the G. c. E. ordinary level) 
examination or a similar examination in order 
to be eligible for applying for the promotion, is 
compulsory.
05. Educational and other qualifications :
 5.1  Officers satisfied the following educational  
and vocational qualifications and been 
confirmed in the service after completion of a 
satisfactory period of service not been subject 
to a disciplinary penalty and earned the relevant 
increments during the approximate five years 
of service prior to the date each vacancy came 
into effect and completing a service of not less 
than five years in a post scheduled under grade 
i of class 2 of  Sri Lanka teacher Educators' 
Service are eligible to apply for this.
 5.2  (a)  Having obtained a first class or second 
class (upper) degree in Education from a 
recognized university in Education ; 
   or
  (b) having obtained a degree in the relevant 
subject field from a recognized University 
and should have obtained a Post Graduate 
diploma in Education or in the relevant 
subject field with a Distinction or Credit 
pass ; 
   or
  (c)  Having obtained a first or second class 
(upper) degree from a recognized university 
and a Post Graduate diploma in Education 
or a Post Graduate degree in the relevant 
Subject field or Education.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2018
1355
06. Method of selection :
 6.1 Selection will be done on a results of a 
Structured interview conducted according to 
the Marking Scheme approved by the Public 
Service commission by a Board of interviewers 
approved by the commission.
 6.2 the original copies of the following documents 
should be submitted at the instance of the 
interview.
 6.2.1 calling letter for the interview
 6.2.2 Certificate of Birth
 6.2.3 National identity card
 6.2.4 Letter of service obtained from the 
relevant head of the institution indicating 
of no pay and half pay leave, availability 
of disciplinary and audit inquiries, 
earning salary increments pertaining to 
the approximate five (05) years in grade 1 
of class 2 of Sri Lanka teacher Educators' 
Service
 6.2.5 All applicable certificates and documents 
required for submission for obtaining 
marks pertaining to basic qualifications 
and marking scheme.
 6.2.6 Relevant certificates and documents for 
professional qualifications.
 6.3 Education services committee of the Public 
Service Commission reserves the right of filling 
or not filling the total or a certain number of 
vacancies thereof.
 6.4 the applications of those unable to produce the 
necessary documents at the time of the interview 
will not be considered.
N. B.– Any Certificate or any copy should not be 
annexed to the application.
07. Salary Scale.– Salary scale of Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 
8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 -Rs.53,555 (monthly) under the salary 
segment SL 1 - 2006 as per public administration circular 
no. 06/2006 is applicable to the post.
By order of the education services committee of the 
Public Service  commission.
 Sunil HettiaracHcHi,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
on the 14th of May 2018.
tHe Marking ScHeMe for proMoting tHe officerS in grade 2-1 of tHe Sri lanka teacHer educatorS' 
Service to tHe claSS 1 of tHe Service
Marks will be awarded only to the maximum qualification in addition to the fundamental educational qualifications 
required for applying to class 1 of Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service and one such certificate will be awarded with marks 
with only one criterion.
01. Service Experience Maximum Marks 50
 10 marks per year will be offered for the additional active service of those 
 exceeded 5 years of service after being promoted to grade 2 - 1of the Sri Lanka 
 t eacher Educators' Service.
02. Additional Educational Qualification Maximum Marks 20
 2.1 doctor of Philosophy  20
 2.2 Post Graduate degree  15
 2.3 Post Graduate diploma  10
  (Either education or non - education management)
03. Proficiency in English Language Maximum Marks  10
 (Marks will only be awarded to certificates obtained from universities or 
 institutions recognized by the university grants commission)
 3.1 having followed/completed to post graduate degree in English medium  10
 3.2 having obtained a post graduate degree diploma in English Subject/teaching English 08
 3.3 having undergone an English diploma (a year or more)  06
 3.4 Having undergone an English certificate course (a year or more)  04

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2018
1356
 3.5 having undergone an English diploma (six months or more)  03
 3.6 Having undergone an English certificate course (six months or more)  02
  (Marks will be awarded for certificates described in points from 3.3 to 3.6 only 
  if the period of the course applicable is mentioned in either the cerficate or the transcript)
04. Second Language communication Skills  Maximum Marks  05
 (Marks will be awarded for certificates of officers whose medium of apppointment is 
 Sinhala for Tamil Language whereas of officers whose medium of appointment is Tamil Language 
 for Sinhala Language)
 4.1 Passing step I of Sinhala/Tamil language of the department of Official Languages or 
  passing step i oral test with a credit pass for second language Sinhala/tamil Language for 
  G. c. E. (ordinary level)  05
 4.2 Passing step II of Sinhala/Tamil Language of the department of official languages or passing 
  step ii oral test with a credit pass for second Language Sinhala/tamil Language for G. c. E. 
  (ordinary level)  04
 4.3 having undergone a Sinhala/t amil diploma course in a university or an institution 
  recognized by the university grants commission.  03
 (Six months or more) (marks for this will be awarded only if the relevant certificate bears the 
 period or the relevant institution has given a certification of the period)
05. knowledge in information and communication technology  Maximum Marks  10
 (Marks will be awarded only to certificates obtained from a University or an Institution 
 recognized by the university Grants commission)
 5.1 Post graduate degree on information and communication technology -   10
 5.2 Post graduate diploma in information and communication technology -   08
  Subject
 5.3 diploma in information and communication technology ( a year or more) 06
 5.4 Certificate course in information and Communication Technology ( a year or more) 04
 5.5 diploma in information and communication technology (More than six months) 03
 5.6 Certificate course in information and Communication Technology (More than six months) 02
06. Evaluation of Service Maximum Marks  05
 Service evaluations issued formally as per the commendation and criticism general 230 b letter 
 specimen issued by the Secretary of Education or the head of the department. (for a maximum of 
 5 service evaluations subject to 1 mark per each)
   total Marks 100
proMotion of officerS in grade 2 - 1 to claSS 1 aS per tHe old Service Minute of 
Sri lanka teacHer educatorS' Service
SpeCiMeN AppliCATioN
(application should be prepared using both sides of an a4 size sheet)
01. (i)  Name with initials (in Sinhala) 
  (Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss.) :–––––––––––.
  Name with initials (in English block letters)
  Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
02. (i) Official address :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Personal address :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Personal telephone No. :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2018
1357
03. (i) date of birth :–––––––––––.
 (ii) National identity card No. :–––––––––––.
 
04. (i)  Date and grade/class of the first appointment :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Present grade/class and date of appointment to the same :–––––––––––.
 (iii) current service station :–––––––––––.
 
05.  Details of Educational and professional qualifications :
 (i) first degree :
  
Name of the Degree and issuing authority Year Class Subjects
 (ii) Post graduate degree :
Name of the degree and issuing authority Year Class Whether a distinction/credit/simple pass
 (iii) Education diploma :
Name of the Certificate and 
issuing authority
Duration of the 
course
Whether a distinction/
credit/simple pass
Description of the subjects
 (iv) Other professional qualifications (description on diploma certificate and trained teacher certificate) :
  
Name of the Certificate and issuing authority Duration of the course Description of the subjects
 (v) competency in English Language :
G. C. E. (O/L) Whether a distinction/credit/simple pass effective date of results
Highest certificate obtained relevant to 
english subject
issuing authority and it effective date Grade
  Experience and service particulars (indicate the designations held previously and the duration of holding such 
designation with dates and periods)
Service Station Designation Confirmed/Not confirmed From To

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'18
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.05.2018
1358
06. 6.1 have you ever been convicted from a court of Law for an offence ? (if so, give details)
 6.2 is there an on -going department disciplinary inquiry against you at present? or else whether there is a case 
pending at the court of Law? (if so, give details)
 6.3 i certify that all the particulars that i have furnished herein are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.           
I am aware I will be considered as disqualified to be appointed to this post if any particulars provided here found 
to be false or incorrect, and if found after the promotion i am liable to be removed from the post without any 
compensation.
 ––––––––––––––––
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Certification of the head of the institution :
application of .......................... is submitted herewith. it is informed that he/she is being working/has worked and 
got retired on  ............................... in this institution.
 –––––––––––––––––
 Signature and official stamp of the head of the institution.
date  :––––––––––––.
institution.  :––––––––––––.
05-538
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.