

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province  ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 146
(Published by Authority)
PA RT  III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"189- 2020 wf.daaia;=  ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'08'14
No. 2,189 - FRidAy,  AUGUSt  14,  2020
                                
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  04th September,  2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st   August , 2020.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2020.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
145 - B 82048-353 (08/2020)
N. B.-   (i)  Part   II  of the  Gazette No. 2188  of  07.08.2020 was not  Published.
(ii) The List of Registered  Veterinary Surgeons  has been published  in Part VI of this Gazette in   English  Language only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'08'14
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 14.08.2020
146
PRiNtEd  At  thE  dEPARtMENt  OF  GOvERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LANkA.
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General's No. 4/10/62224.
Provincial  Land Commissioner's No.: EP/28/LB/LS/BAt/
MNW/20.
noTIfIcATIon mADe unDeR STATe LAnD 
ReGuLATIon no. 21(2)
it is hereby notified that for Purpose of  Commercial Solar 
Universe (Private) Limited has requested on lease a state land  
containing in extent about 19.5446 Hec. marked as  Tracing 
No. Bt/MNW/2018/216, Lot No. A, situated in the village of 
Panchenai which belongs to the  Grama Niladhari  division 
of  148 B, Panchenai   coming within the area of authority 
of  Manmunai West   divisional Secretariat in the district of 
Batticaloa. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by  :  Navaladipallam Road  ;
On the East by  : Navaladipallm  ;
On the South by  :  Navaladipallam  ;
On the West by :  Navaladipallam. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions. 
   Terms of the lease.- thirty years (30) (From 
15.07.2020 until 14.07.2050)
   The Annual rent of the lease.- 2% of the marked value 
of the land, as per valuation of the chief valuer for the 
year of operation, When the annual value of  the land  
is less than Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000)  of 
that year 4% of the market value for the land, as per 
valuation of the chief valuer for the year of operation 
of the lease, When the annual value of the land more 
than  Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000) for that 
year. this lease amount should be revised once in 
every Five years (05) and 20% of the lease amount 
charged in the final year of the preceding 05 year 
period, should be added to the annual lease amount. 
 Premium  :  Not charged.
 (a)  the lessee  must, within one year of the 
commencement of the lease, develop the said 
land, in such a manner as to captivate the mind 
of the divisional Secretary/Provincial  Land 
Commissioner/deputy Land  Commissioner.
 (b) the lessee  must not use this land for any purposes 
other than  for the purpose of  commercial activities.   
 (c) the lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary and by other institutions.
 (d)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
 (e) Once the land is given on  lease and in the event 
of failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate 
within the specified time frame the purpose for 
which the land was obtained, action will be taken 
to terminate the lease.
 (f) No sub-leasing  can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 15.07.2020 ;
 
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
   
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which  this  notie is published  
in the  Gazette to the effect  that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
 
g. Prana v an,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's department,
“Mihikatha Medura”, Land Secretariat, 
No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
14th August, 2020.
08-208