

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1211
1211
wxl 1"615 - 2009 wf.daia;= 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'08'14
No. 1,615 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 14, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1214
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1214
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 21st August, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
August, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.– Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,614 of 07.08.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1212
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1213
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1214
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaris Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th September, 20 09.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
23rd July, 2009.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Nochchiyagama Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
(Kandyan/General) of Nuwaragampalatha General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Gala Anuradhapura.
Diwulwewa Division.
08-252
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
SELECTION  OF  TEACHERS  TO  FOLLOW  THE  WEEKEND  TEACHER  EDUCATION  COURSES  CONDUCTED
BY  THE  REGIONAL  CENTERS  OF  THE  NATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  EDUCATION  –  2009/2011
 APPLICATIONS are invited from teachers who posses the following qualifications to follow the weekend teacher education courses .
(2009/2011).
1.1 Untrained teachers and teaching assistants serving in Government Schools who have obtained their formal appointments
signed by the Secretary of Education Service Committee or by the Secretary of the Provincial Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1215
1.2 Untrained teachers with formal appointments from the Provincial Director of Education and included in the list of names
of Private Schools certified by the Director of Private Schools in the Ministry of Education.
1.3 Untrained Pirivena teachers with formal appointments with the approval of the Provincial Director of Education and
registered in the Pirivena Education Branch of the Ministry of Education.
02. All untrained teachers are strongly requested to apply. The Ministry of Education expects to train all teachers before year
2012 and thereafter opportunities will not be provided to be engaged in teaching in schools without having specific training. Therefore it
is very important to use this opportunity and all the untrained non graduate teachers are requested to apply.
03. Teachers who are presently undergoing teacher training programmes in the teachers' colleges will not be admitted to the
above programme.
04. Applicants are permitted to apply for the course according to the subject stated in the appointment letter. In case of
appointment is not for a particular subject, apply for the course related to the main subject teaching at the school (Proofs ne eded to be
submitted during the interview).
05. Teacher Education courses will be offered during the weekends and school holidays through the regional centers established
by the NIE.
06. Trained Teachers' Certificate will be awarded to those fulfilling the requirements of assignments, projects, co-curricular
activities and examination conducted by Commissioner General of Examinations.
6.1 If any fault is detected regarding the recruitment qualification, the certificate might not be considered for permanency or
promotional requirements.
07. In absence of sufficient number of candidates for the first preferential center of an applicant, he or she will be placed for 2nd
or 3rd preferential center or any other center.
08. The final decision will be made by Secretary, Education regarding intake and establishment of regional center.
09. Instructions for the preparation of application form.
9.1 Read the Gazette notification very carefully. Application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen given in
this Gazette notification.
(a) Application should be made in the medium in which the candidate wishes to follow the course.
(b) Application Form should be prepared on a sheet of paper of 8" x 12" (A4) size using both sides.
(c) Application should be forwarded under registered cover to the address of Director, Teacher Education Administration
Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla on or before 03rd September, 2009.
(d) Specimen of registered post envelop is given below.
Regd. Post
Application for Weekend TE course
Medium :—————.
Course :—————.
School Zonal No. :—————.
Director,
Teacher Education Administration,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Battaramulla.
M. M. N. D. Bandara,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
31st July, 2009,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1216
9.2 Apply for the course according to the subject stated in your appointment letter :
Course No. Name of the Course
01 Sinhala
02 Tamil
03 Primary Education
04 Social Science
05 Science
06 Mathematics
07 Agriculture
08 Home Economics
09 English
10 Buddhism
11 Christianity/Roman Catholic
12 Hinduism
13 Islam
14 Art
15 Music
16 Dancing
17 Arabic
18 Special Education
19 Handicraft and Technology
20 Commerce
21 Physical Education
22 Second Language (Sinhala/Tamil)
9.3 Select three centers in preferential order. The centers you select should represent the following two categories. The
establishment of centers will be determined based on number of applications received and availability of resources.
Category 1
1. Maharagama 2. Peradeniya 3. Balapitiya 4. Giragama 5. Unawatuna
6. Kotagala 7. Batticaloa 8. Addalachenai 9. Kopay
Category 2
10. Anuradhapura 11. Polonnaruwa 12. Kandy 13. Nuwara-Eliya 14. Badulla
15. Puttalum 16. Ratnapura 17. Moneragala 18. Kurunegala 19. Kalutara
9.4 The number and name of the zones to be used in the applications :
Number Zone Number Zone
0101 Colombo 0501 Matale
0102 Homagama 0502 Galewala
0103 Sri Jayawardhanapura 0503 Naula
0104 Piliyandala 0504 Wilgamuwa
0201 Gampaha 0601 Nuwara Eliya
0202 Minuwangoda 0602 Kotmale
0203 Negombo 0603 Hatton
0204 Kelaniya 0604 Walapane
0301 Kalutara 0605 Hanguranketha
0302 Matugama 0701 Galle
0303 Horana 0702 Elpitiya
0401 Kandy 0703 Ambalangoda
0403 Denuwara 0705 Udugama
0404 Gampola 0801 Matara
0405 T eldeniya 0802 Akuressa
0406 W attegama 0803 Mulatiyana
0407 Katugastota 0804 Deniyaya

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1217
0901 T angalle 1802 Kuliyapitiya
0902 Hambantota 1803 Nikaweratiya
0903 W alasmulla 1804 Maho
1001 Jaffna 1805 Giriula
1002 Islands 1806 Ibbagamuwa
1003 Thenmarachchi 1901 Puttalam
1004 V alikamam 1902 Chilaw
1005 V adamarachchi 2001 Anuradhapura
1101 Kilinochchi 2002 Tambuttegama
1201 Mannar 2003 Kekirawa
1202 Madhu 2004 Galenbindunuwewa
1301 V avuniya 2005 Kebithigollawa
1302 V avuniya North 2101 Polonnaruwa
1401 Mullativu 2102 Hingurakgoda
1402 Thunukkai 2103 Dimbulagala
1501 Batticaloa 2201 Badulla
1502 Kalkuda 2202 Bandarawela
1503 Paddrippu 2203 Mahiyanganaya
1504 Batticaloa Central 2204 W elimada
1601 Ampara 2205 Passara
1602 Kalmunai 2301 Monaragala
1603 Sammanthurai 2302 Wellawaya
1604 Mahaoya 2303 Bibile
1605 Dehiattakandiya 2401 Ratnapura
1606 Akkaraipattu 2403 Balangoda
1701 Trincomalee 2404 Nivitigala
1702 Muttur 2405 Ambilipitiya
1703 Kantale 2501 Kegalle
1704 Kinniya 2503 Mawanella
1801 Kurunegala 2504 Dehiowita
9.5 Use following signs to indicate the mediums.
S – Sinhala,  T – Tamil,  E – English
Specimen Application
SELECTION OF TEACHERS TO FOLLOW THE WEEKENDS TEACHER EDUCATION COURSES – 2009/2011
1. Please state your medium of instruction, course number, course applied in the table given below.
1.1 Encircle the respective number for medium of instruction of selected course.
Medium Course Applied
S T E Course No. : Name of the course (Block letters)
12 3
1.2 Write the name of the center in block letter :—————.
(Select three centers in the given list stating the preferential order. You should select at least one center from each given
category)
First Choice Second Choice Third Choice
Center Center Center
No.              Name No.                 Name No.                   Name
Number Zone Number Zone

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2009
1218
2. Name with initials (Write in capital letters. Write the name first and indicate the initials after the name. (Example : PERERA, A. B.)
:—————.
3. Name denoted by initials (Block letters) :—————.
4. Gender (Write the respective number in the cage) :
Male – 1              Female – 2
5. National Identity Card Number :—————.
6. Personal Address (In block letters) :—————.
7. Present serving station (In block letters) :—————.
8. Address of present serving station (In block letters) :—————.
9. Respective zone of the present serving station :
Zonal Number Zonal Name (in block letters)
10. Service/grade held by you – (indicate in the cage) :
Sri Lanka teacher service 3-11 - 1
Teacher not absorbed in the Sri Lanka teacher service - 2
Teaching Assistant - 3
Other - 4
11. Nature of the serving station (indicate in the cage) :
Govt. School - 1
Approved Pirivena School - 2
Approved Private School - 3
Other - 4
12. Applicant's Declaration :
(i) I declare that above stated information are correct and true. I know that, if the information given by me found to be
incorrect, my application will be subjected to rejection and if any fault is revealed after the selection, I will be dismissed
from the course.
(ii) I am presently not undergoing any type of institutional teacher training programmes.
–––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :—————.
13. Attestation of Principal :
I certify that above applicant is serving at my school from .............. and information given by him/her are true and correc t.
—————,
Principal's Signature and Seal.
Date :—————.
08–361
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.