

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1804$50 - 2013 wfm%a,a 05 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'04'05
No. 1804/50 - FRIDAY,  APRIL    05,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
MINUTE OF THE SRI LANKA INLAND REVENUE SERVICE
THE following Minute of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service will replace the Minute of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue
Service Published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 133/5 of 15th October 1974, without prejudice, however, to any steps
taken or purported to have been taken under the provisions of the said Minute published in the aforesaid Gazette and to
those  provisions of amendments effected thereto from time to time, which were published in the Gazette Extraordinary No.
169 of 20th  June 1975, No. 241/9 of 1st December 1976, No.280 of 13th January 1984 and No. 682/27 of 04th October 1991.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
T. M. L. C. SENARA THNE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
05th April 2013.
MINUTE OF THE SRI LANKA INLAND REVENUE SERVICE
01. Effective Date.– This Minute shall come into force with effect from 1st October, 2012.
02. Particulars of the Appointing Authority :
2.1. Appointing Authority:  Public Service Commission
03. Particulars of the Service Category:-
3.1. Service Category :  Senior Executive
Executive
3.2. Grade  : Executive   -    Grade   III
Executive   -    Grade   II
Executive   -    Grade   I
Senior Executive   -    Special Grade
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
5 - G17523

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
2A
3.3. General definition of the role of functions assigned to:
Effective recovery of tax revenue in terms of the provisions of statutes, and  any other regulations, circulars
incidental thereto, which are coming under or to be brought under the administration of the Commissioner
General of Inland  Revenue.
04. Nature of the Appointment:-
This appointment is permanent and pensionable.
05. Salaries:-
(a) 5.1. Salary Code No. : Senior Executive : SL - 3 - 2006
Executive             : SL - 1 - 2006
5.2. Salary Scale :- Senior Executive :-   SL- 3- 2006 - Rs. 42,390 - 12 x 1,310 - Rs. 58,110
Executive :- SL - 1 - 2006 - Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050    - Rs. 53,555
5.3. Initial salary steps pertaining to the grades :
Grade Salary Step Salary Point (Rs.)
Grade III 1   (SL-1-2006) 22,935/-
Grade II 12   (SL-1-2006) 30,175/-
Grade I 20   (SL-1-2006) 36,755/-
Special Grade   1   (SL-3-2006) 42,390/-
06. Posts belonging to the Service Category:-
6.1. Approved designation, approved cadre and the functions assigned to :-
Approved Designation/ Approved Functions
Grade Cadre
Commissioner General/Special Grade 01 Supervising all the functions pertaining to the
entire performance of the Department and
giving instructions and directions, as the case
may be
Deputy Commissioner General/Special Grade 07 Identifying appropriate plans and
methodologies with a view to achieving the
targets relating to each subject area
Senior Commissioner / Special Grade 22 Formulation of periodically operative
programmes in accordance with the plans and
methodologies identified to achieve the targets
relating to each subject area

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
3A
Commissioner/Grade I 90 I mplementation, supervision and co-
ordination of periodical programmes
formulated  in accordance  with  the  plans
and  methodologies identified to achieve the
targets pertaining to each subject area.
Senior Deputy Commissioner, 1,107 Proper implementation of periodically operative
Deputy  Commissioner,  programmes identified with a view to achieving
Assistant Commissioner/  targets relating to each subject area.
Grade I
Grade II
Grade III
6.2. Combined Cadre:  1,197 (Grade III, II and I)
Note: The cadre may be varied from time to time in conformity with the requirements of the public service.
07. Method of Recruitment:-
7.1 Recruitment Percentage: Stream     Percentage
  Open            100%
7.2. Open Recruitment:-
7.2.1. Recruitment Grade: -   Executive Grade III
7.2.1.1.    Educational Qualifications:
(I) Should have obtained a Degree with first or second class from  a University recognized by
the University Grants Commission or from any institution recognized by the University
Grants Commission as an institution to award degrees ;
or
(II) Should be an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court ;
or
(III) Should be a Chartered Accountant.
7.2.1.2.    Professional Qualifications:  Not applicable
7.2.1.3.    Experience : Not applicable
7.2.1.4.    Physical Fitness: -   Every applicant should be sound physically,  mentally and in every respect
so as to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
7.2.1.5.    Other   : -
i. Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Applicants should be of excellent moral character.
iii. Any person who is ordained in any religious order will not be allowed to sit the examination.
iv. No applicant shall sit the open competitive examination more than two occasions.
v. Applicants should have complied with all necessary  qualifications for recruitment in every
respect as on the date, so specified in the Gazette Notification calling for applications.
Approved Designation/ Approved Functions
Grade Cadre

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
4A
7.2.2.  Age:
7.2.2.1.Minimum limit : 22 Y ears
7.2.2.2. Maximum limit : 28 Years
7.2.2.3.The maximum age limit for those who are already employed in  public service or provincial public
service, is 35 years.
7.2.3. Method of Recruitment:
7.2.3.1. Written examination (Vide appendix 01) :
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks (Minimum)
Comprehension 100 40
Intelligence 100 40
General Knowledge 100 40
7.2.3.1.1.   Conducting Authority:   Commissioner General of  Examinations
7.2.3.2. Professional Qualifications :  Not applicable.
7.2.3.3. Structured interview :  Not applicable.
7.2.3.4. General interview :  No marks.
Objectives expected to be achieved :  To check whether the necessary qualifications specified
in the Minute of Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service and in the Gazette Notification published in
conformity with that Minute have been fulfilled and also to check the candidate's physical
fitness.
Note:- The number of candidates to be called for the interview will be decided by the Appointing
Authority based on the order of merit secured by them at the written examination and on the
number due to be recruited,  as the case may be.
7.2.3.4.1 The Authority appointing the General Interview Board:-
Public Service Commission
7.2.4. Method of Application: -Applications will be called through  notifications published in the Government
Gazette as well as in the website.
7.3. Limited recruitment is not applicable.
7.4. Recruitment on seniority and on merit basis is not applicable

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
5A
08. Efficiency Bars:-
8.1
Type of Efficiency Bar The period before which Nature of the Efficiency Bar
the Efficiency Bar to be passed  Written/Professional/
Certificate Courses/Others
1st Efficiency Bar Before completion of three (3) years
from the date of appointment to
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service
2nd Efficiency Bar Before completion of three (3) years
from the date of promotion to
Grade II  of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service Written
3rd Efficiency Bar Before completion of five (05) years
from the date of promotion to
Grade I of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service
8.2. How often the Efficiency Bar Examination to be conducted: -    Twice a year
8.3. Authority conducting the Efficiency Bar Examinations:
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue
09. Departmental Examination.–
The departmental examination stipulated in appendix 05 is required to be completed within six (06) years from the date
of appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka  Inland Revenue Service.
10. Language Proficiency:-
10.1. Proficiency in Official Language:-
An officer recruited to the public service in English medium is required to acquire the  proficiency in any one
of the official languages within the probation period. The  said  proficiency level is the pass in Sinhala/Tamil at
the G .C.E. (O/L)  examination as a  main subject (not as second language or optional language) and speech test
conducted by the Department of Official Languages or pass in special  competence examination conducted by
the Department of Official Languages.
Written - Vide appendix 02
Written - Vide appendix 03
Vide appendix 04

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
6A
11. Promotions to Grades:-
11.1. Promotion from Grade III to Grade II :
11.1.1.  According to Average Performance :
11.1.1.1. Prerequisites:-
(i). Should have been confirmed in the post in Grade III (A letter of confirmation in the post
should have been issued) ;
(ii.) Should have completed a minimum of ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service
period in Grade III of the service and earned all ten (10) increments during the period ;
( iii.) Should have successfully completed the due efficiency bar examinations and departmental
examination on the due date ;
( iv.) Should have acquired the necessary level of proficiency in other official  languages ;
 (v.) Should have completed satisfactory service during the period of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of promotion ;
(vi.) Should have shown a satisfactory or above average performance according to the Approved
Scheme of Performance Appraisal during a period of ten (10) years  preceding the date of
promotion ;
11.1.1.2.Mode of Promotion:
The officers who have fulfilled the prerequisites as mentioned above shall  submitan application
in the appropriate form to the Public Service Commission requesting for promotion and then,
having verified the qualifications, they will be promoted to Grade II by the Public Service
Commission with effect from the qualifying date ;
11.1.2. On the basis of the Exceptional Performance
11.1.2.1 Prerequisites:-
(i) Should have completed six (06) years of active and satisfactory service period in Grade III
of the Service Category and earned all the six (06) increments on the due date ;
Period before which the
proficiency to be acquired
Within first five (05) years
from the date of
appointment to the
service
The relevant level of
language proficiency in
terms of the provisions of
PA Circular No. 07/2007
and the circulars
incidental thereto
Sinhala
Tamil
English
Tamil
Sinhala
The other official
language other than the
official language
proficiency acquired
under Sub-paragraph
No. 10.1.
Level of Proficiency to be
acquired
Language Proficiency
Medium of language the
officer was recruited to
the service
Medium of language
from which the
proficiency to be
acquired
10.2. Proficiency in other Official Languages.–

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
7A
(ii.) Should have successfully completed the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination and the departmental
examination on the due date ;
(iii.) Should have acquired the necessary level of proficiency in other official languages within
the prescribed period ;
(iv.) Should have completed satisfactory service during the period of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of promotion ;
(v.) Should have been confirmed in the post in Grade III (A letter of  confirmation in the post
should have been issued) ;
(vi.) Should have displayed an Exceptional Performance* throughout the six (06) years of service,
according to the Approved Scheme of Performance  Appraisal, immediately preceding the
date of promotion.
* Note:-
1. The officers who have displayed a satisfactory level or above average performance in the  existing Annual Performance
Appraisal will be given an opportunity to sit the written aptitude test for promotion under the Exceptional Performance
until such time the government introduces and implements a methodology for  the appraisal of Exceptional Performance.
2. When granting promotions on average level of performance,  the date of promotion of the officers who do not get
through the  efficiency bar on due date, shall be delayed by such period  equal to the  period spent in passing the said
efficiency bar examination.
11.1.2.2.Mode of Promotions
The officers who have fulfilled  the above qualifications  will  be allowed to sit a  written aptitude  test
conducted  by an  institute  approved  by  the Public Service Commission. Those who pass the written
aptitude test shall submit an application   in   the  appropriate  form   to   the   Public  Service   Commission
requesting for promotion and then the qualifications shall be verified by the Appointing Authority. The
officers who have fulfilled the other prerequisites shall be promoted to Grade II by the Public Service
Commission with effect from the date on which they complete six (06) years of service as from the  date
of appointment. (The syllabus for the  written  aptitude   test  is shown  in Appendix 06).
Note:  (a) A candidate should obtain at least 60% of the total marks to get through the aptitude test to be held for promotion
under the Exceptional Performance. Moreover, the aptitude test for promotion under the Exceptional  Performance
will be held once a year and   at the same time an officer shall  have only one opportunity to sit for this test.
(b) Instances where an officer is unable to sit for the test for promotion under the Exceptional Performance on the
due date owing to any special reason beyond his/her control, he/she will be allowed to sit the written aptitude
test to be held later on. The date of passing the said examination will be treated as the effective date of promotion
under the Exceptional Performance of such officer.
11.2. Promotion form Grade II to Grade I
11.2.1. Prerequisites:-
(i.) Should have completed seven (07) years of active and satisfactory service in Grade II of the
Service Category and earned due seven (07) increments ;
(ii.) Should have successfully completed the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date ;
(iii.) Should have completed satisfactory service during the period of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date for promotion ;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
8A
(iv.) Should have displayed a satisfactory level or above average performance throughout the seven
(07) years of service preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approved Scheme of
Performance Appraisal ;
(v.) Should have a Posts Graduate Degree, in any of the  subject areas specified in Appendix "07",
obtained from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or from any institution
recognized by the University Grants Commission as an institution for awarding degrees or from
any Higher Educational Institute recognized by the Public Service Commission.
11.2.2. Mode of promotion:-
The officers who have acquired the necessary qualifications shall submit an application to the Public
Service Commission in the appropriate form requesting for promotion and then, having verified the
qualifications, promotions will be made to Grade I by the Public Service Commission with effect from
the qualifying date.
11.3. Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade
11.3.1 Promotion to Special Grade of the Service will be made by the Public Service Commission only through
the promotion of officers in Grade I, who have fulfilled the following requirements,
(i.) Should have obtained a Post Graduate Degree in any of the subject areas, specified  in Appendix
"07",   from   a  University recognized  by  the University Grants   Commission  or  from  any
institution  recognized  by  the University Grants Commission as an institution to award degrees
or from  any  Higher  Educational  Institute  recognized  by the Public Service Commission;
(ii.) Should have completed five  (05) years  of active and satisfactory service in Grade I of the Sri
Lanka Inland Revenue Service as at the date of qualifying for  promotion   and  earned the five (05)
increments after being promoted to Grade I;
(iii.) Should have completed not less than eighteen (18) years of service in the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service as at the date of qualifying for promotion;
(iv.) Should have maintained a satisfactory level or above average level performance in his/her Annual
Performance Appraisal during the period of five (05) years immediately preceding the date of
qualifying for promotions ;
(v.) Should have completed five (05) years of satisfactory service immediately preceding the date of
qualifying for promotions and not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment during that
period.
11.3.2. Method of Appointment
(i.) Promotion to Special Grade will be made by the Public Service Commission according to the
existing number of vacancies and on the results of the  interview conducted by an Interview
Board approved by the Public Service Commission.
(ii.) Seniority and competency will be taken into consideration at the interview.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
9A
12. Appointment to the Posts:-
12.1 Qualifications :
Post Qualifications
Commissioner General/ Deputy Commissioner General To be an of ficer in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka
Inland Revenue Service
Senior Commissioner To be an of ficer in Special Grade of the Sri Lanka
Inland Revenue Service
Commissioner To be an of ficer in Grade  I of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service
Senior Deputy Commissioner To be an officer in Grade  I of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service
Deputy Commissioner To be an officer in Grade  II of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service
Assistant Commissioner To be an of ficer in Grade  III of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service
Note:- The post of Senior Deputy Commissioner is the designation of officers in Grade I who are promoted from Grade II
to Grade I,  but not being assigned the post in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Inland  Revenue Service. This post is an
official designation given merely to the seniority and not having any change in the role, responsibility or benefits
relating to the post.
12.2. Method of Selection:
(a) Commissioner - Appointment to the approved posts will be made  by the  Public Service
Commission upon the   seniority in Grade I.
(b) Senior Commissioner - Appointment to the approved posts will be made by the Public Service
Commission upon the  seniority in Special Grade
(c) Deputy Commissioner - Appointment to the approved posts will be made  by the Public Service
General Commission upon the seniority in Special Grade
(d) Commissioner General  - Appointment will be made by the Cabinet of  Ministers.
13. General conditions stipulated in the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 are applicable in respect of
every appointment.
14. Definitions:-
14.1. "Government Gazette or Gazette Extraordinary" means the Gazette of the  Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
14.2. "Service" means the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service.
6 - G17523

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
10A
14.3. "Minute" means the Minute of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service.
14.4. "Secretary" means the Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the Subject of Finance.
14.5 "Period of Active Service" means the period of service during which the officer is actually engaged in duties
assigned to him drawing the salaries attached to the post.  All the leave without pay other than the government
approved maternity leave will not be counted for the period of active service.
14.6 "Period of Satisfactory Service" means the period of service during which all the due increments have been
earned by a public officer by way of discharging his duties with diligence and efficiency, passing the due
Efficiency Bar Examinations, duly fulfilling the qualifications required to be confirmed in the post and in which
any punishable offence has not been committed by himself.
15. The number to be recruited to the Grade III of the service in any year is the number of vacancies existing in that service
as at the 30th June of the said year.
16. Recruitment to the Service and Gradewise promotions
Recruitment and gradewise promotions shall be made only under the  procedure stipulated in this Minute.
17. Retirement Option:-
An officer who is in the service on prescribed date and who has not reached the age of optional retirement will, on
application, be given the option to retire from the service under Section 7 of the Pension Minute. Such option shall be
exercised within five (05) years from that date, provided that the Public Service Commission is satisfied that he/she
was adversely affected by the  provisions of this Minute to such extent as to justify the grant of such relief.
18. Absorption of officers in service into the new grade structure of the  Reconstituted Service :
Officers  in service as on the effective date of this Service Minute shall be absorbed into the grade structure of the
Reconstituted Service in the following  manner. No change in officers' salary, date of increment and also in their
seniority will occur owing to the absorption :
(a) The officers in Class II Grade II of the Inland Revenue Service will be  absorbed into Grade III of the service.
(b) The officers in Class II Grade I of the Inland Revenue Service will be absorbed into Grade II of the service.
(c ) The officers in Class I of the Inland Revenue Service will be absorbed into  Grade I of the service.
(d) The officers drawing salaries under the Senior Executive Service Category of  the Inland Revenue Service will
be absorbed into Special Grade.
19. Interim Provisions:-
The interim provisions will be in force until 01.01.2018 :
19.1. Promotion to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service :
Tax Officers in Class III and Senior Tax Officers who have been in service under the previous Minute of the
Inland Revenue Service as at the effective date of this Service Minute will be promoted to Grade III of the
service referred to in this Minute during the interim period as per the provisions stipulated below:
(i) Senior Tax Officers in Class III Grade I who have fulfilled the required  qualifications to be granted
promotions to Class II Grade II under the previous Minute of the Inland Revenue Service as at the
effective date of this Service Minute will be promoted to Grade III of the service  referred to in this
Minute.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
11A
( ii) Under  the interim provisions, 50% of  vacancies arising in Grade III  of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue
Service during a calendar year  under this Service Minute will be filled, based upon the seniority and
on the results of the structured interview, by promoting the Senior Tax  Officers in Class III Grade I who
have been in service under the previous Minute of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service.
(iii) Under the interim provisions,  50% of vacancies arising  during a  calendar year will be filled, on the
results of a limited  competitive examination in terms of the previous Minute, by promoting the officers
with the following qualifications who are in  Class III Grade II or Class III Grade I under the  previous
Minute of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service :
(a) Senior Tax Officers in Class III Grade I.
(b) Tax  Officers with not less than ten (10) years of active and  satisfactory period of service in Class
III.
(c ) Graduates  with  not less than three (03) years of active and  satisfactory period of service in a
post of Tax Officer  Class III.
(d) Officers who have passed the Intermediate Examination of the Institute of  Chartered  Accountants
of   Sri  Lanka  or  the Intermediate   Examination   of   the   Diploma   Course   in Accountancy  or
Commerce of Sri Lanka Technical  College, or parts  I, II and III of  the  Institute of Cost and
Management  Accountants (CIMA) or parts I, II and III of the Association of Certified Chartered
Accountants and with not less than five (05)  years  of active  and  satisfactory  period  of service
in Class III under the previous service Minute.
19.2. Promotion to Grade II of the Inland Revenue Service :
Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service, on completion of  ten (10) years of service
in Class II Grade II and fulfilling the necessary  requirements to be promoted to Class II Grade I as
specified  in the  previous service Minute, will be promoted to Grade II referred to in  this Minute  with
effect from the date of fulfilling all such requirements.
Note: - A written aptitude test for promotion under Exceptional Performance  specified in para 11.1.2 of the Minute will be
held   during the interim period.   Effective date of promotion to Grade I of officers who have got through the relevant
aptitude test will be the date of holding the respective test.  Officers  who are promoted to Grade II  under exceptional
performance, will be  promoted to Grade I with effect from the date  on which such officers complete  13 years of
active and satisfactory period of service upon their appointment to  Grade III.
19.3. Promotion to Grade I of the Inland Revenue Service :
The officers in the Inland Revenue Service will be promoted to Grade I under  this Service Minute with effect
from the date on which such officers  fulfill the  necessary prerequisites as mentioned below; or vacancies in
Grade  I are filled, whichever occurs  earlier :
(i.) Should  have  completed thirteen (13) years of   active  and satisfactory service  which aggregates  the
period  of service completed in Class II Grade II,  Class II Grade I as per the previous service minute
and in Grade II  of this service minute and 03 years of active and satisfactory service in  Grade II ;
(ii.) Should  have passed first and second departmental examinations as stated in the current Service
Minute ;
(iii.) Should have earned all five (05) increments on due dates during the period of five (05) years immediately
preceding the date of qualifying for promotions ;
(iv.) Not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (other than  warnings) during the period of five (05)
years immediately preceding  the date of qualifying for promotions; and
(v.) Should have shown a satisfactory or above average performance as per the Annual Performance
Appraisal during the period of five (05) years   immediately preceding the qualifying date for promotions.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
12A
19.4. Promotion to the Special Grade of the Inland Revenue Service :
Promotion  to Special Grade of Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service will be made in accordance with the provisions
specified in 11.3 of this Minute.
Note :- Officers who have completed 25 years of active service in Class II  Grade II  and above of the Sri Lanka Inland
Revenue Service and who are eligible to be promoted to the Special Grade according to the above provisions will
be released from acquiring the Post Graduate Degree as stipulated in Section 11.3 (i) of the Minute.  The concession
will be in force from 01.10.2012 to 31.12.2015 and thereafter, all other officers are required to fulfill the requirements
stipulated in Para. 11.3 of this Minute.
20. In addition to the requirements referred to in this Service Minute, all officers are required to duly obtain the required
proficiencies and competencies as may be determined by the Government from time to time.
21. Other Matters :
21.1 Duties performed or scheduled to be performed by the Senior Deputy Commissioner General or Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue, as per the provisions of the Statutes, any other regulation and circular incidental
there to, which are coming under or to be brought under the administration of the Commissioner General of
Inland Revenue, will be performed by the Commissioner   General of Inland Revenue mentioned in this Minute.
21.2. Duties performed or scheduled to be performed by the Deputy Commissioner Generals of Inland Revenue, as
per the provisions of the Statutes, any other regulation and circular incidental there to, which are coming under
or to be brought under the administration of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, will be performed by
the Deputy Commissioner   Generals of Inland Revenue mentioned in this Minute.
21.3. Duties performed or scheduled to be performed by the Senior Commissioners of Inland Revenue, as per the
provisions of the Statutes, any other regulation and circular incidental there to, which are coming under or to
be brought under the administration of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, will be performed by the
Deputy Commissioner   Generals of Inland Revenue mentioned in this Minute.
21.4. Duties performed or scheduled to be performed by the Commissioners of Inland Revenue, as per the provisions
of the Statutes, any other regulation and circular incidental thereto, which are coming under or to be brought
under the administration of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, will be performed by the Senior
Commissioners of Inland Revenue mentioned in this Minute.
21.5. Duties   performed   or  scheduled   to  be  performed  by  the   Deputy Commissioners, as per the provisions of
the Statutes, any other regulation and circular incidental thereto, which are coming under or to be brought
under the administration of the Commissioner  General  of   Inland   Revenue,  will  be  performed  by  the
Commissioners mentioned in this Minute.
21.6. Duties performed or scheduled to be performed by the Senior Assessors, as per the provisions of the statutes,
any other regulation and circular incidental thereto, which are coming under or to be brought under the
administration of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, will be performed by Senior Deputy
Commissioners and  Deputy Commissioners mentioned in this Minute.
21.7. Duties performed or scheduled to be performed by Assessors, as per the provisions of the statutes, any other
regulation and circular incidental there to, which are coming under or to be brought under the administration
of the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, will be performed by Assistant Commissioners mentioned in
this Minute.
22. Matters not provided for:-
Any matter not provided for in this Minute will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Minute, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
13A
Appendix 01
Particulars of the written open competitive examination for recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service :
01. Procedure and syllabuses of the examination - This examination will consist of the following question papers :
PART "A" :
(i.) Comprehension
(ii.) Intelligence
(iii.) General Knowledge
PART "B" :
Interview :- ( Marks will not be given for the interview).
The interview will be conducted after the release of results of the written examination.
02. Procedure of the examination  - Medium of the examination
(a) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English media.
(b) Candidates may sit the examination in one of the desired medium of  Language.
Note: - i. Candidates are required to answer all question papers only in one medium of language.
ii. Candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of language chosen and stated in their application.
iii. All candidates are required to sit for all three (03) question papers.
iv. Number of recruitments made at a time will be decided by the Public Service Commission.
03. Method of testing
PART "A"
(i.) Comprehension Duration - 02 hours 100 Marks
(ii.) Intelligence Duration - 01 hour 100 Marks
(iii.) General Knowledge Duration - 03 hours 100 Marks
PART "B" :
(i.) Interview - No marks will be given for the interview.
No candidate will be called for the interview unless obtained at least 40 % marks for each written question paper.
04. Mode of Selection for appointments :
Candidates will be selected for appointments in the order of rank of the highest aggregate marks secured at the
examination subject to the facts stated in No. 03 above.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
14A
05. Syllabus :
Subject No. 01- Comprehension :
This paper consists of two parts.
Equal marks will be given to each part.
Part I :
This includes an essay and précis writing
Part II :
The part two will consist of several texts framed with the objective of testing the candidate's understanding of
language. Candidates are expected to express the  meaning of underlined words in a single sentence or to write down
an explanatory  notes in that regard or to select the most appropriate statement from a group of  alternatives or to
select the most appropriate answer from a group of answers for the  given question.
Subject No. 02 - Intelligence :
This paper is framed with the objective of gauging the candidate’s power of  rational thinking, power of analysis and
ability of arriving at correct inferences. This  is a multiple choice question paper.
Subject No. 03 - General Knowledge
This paper is framed to test the candidate's knowledge and understanding of entire environment of Sri Lanka including
geographical, political, economical, social and cultural environments and current trends which are internationally
importance. The knowledge of scientific and technological advancements will also be tested.
06. Interview  - Each candidate will be interviewed by an interview board comprising of 05 public officers appointed by the
Public Service Commission.
Appendix 02
Syllabus of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers appointed to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service.
Tax Law : - Two question papers on Income Tax Law with emphasis on the individual Income
Tax and Value Added Tax.
Tax Procedure and Tax Administration : One question paper on the procedure adopted in relation to taxes administrated
by the Department of Inland Revenue and general aspects of tax administration
in Sri Lanka
Accountancy : i. One question paper on accounts under the double entry   system (excluding
accounts of Limited Liability Companies).
ii. One question paper on preparation of accounts from incomplete records and
other information.
Tax Computation : One question paper in computation of tax liability (excluding accounts of Limited
Liability Companies) through  adjustments of accounts in accordance with tax
law.
General Commercial : One question paper on general commercial knowledge, general fiscal and
Knowledge and Economic Affairs economic affairs and rights of tax payers with a particular reference to the taxes
administrated by the Department of Inland Revenue.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
15A
Indirect Taxes - One question paper on the main features of indirect taxes in   Sri Lanka.
General Paper - Banking,   stock  exchange,   e - commerce   transactions,  international relations
on tax matters, activities in Customs and  the Inland Revenue, Code of Ethics.
• Failure in one question paper shall not have any effect on the result of any other question paper.
• Minimum of 40% marks shall be obtained in each paper to pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination.
Appendix 03
Syllabus of the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers appointed to Grade II of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service:
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the following subjects :
(i.) Establishments Regulations
(ii.) Financial Methods in the Public Sector
An officer is permitted to sit all the subjects either in one sitting or in several sittings separately. Duration for
each paper is 3 hours.
Examination Procedure :
First paper - Establishments Regulations :
1. Following Chapters of the Establishments Code, V olume I
VII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XIV , XV, XXIII, XXIV
2. Following Chapters of the Establishments Code, V olume II
XLVII, XLVIII
3. Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission
From Chapters I to IV of the V olume I
Second Paper - Financial Methods in Public Sector
1. Financial Regulations –Volume I
Estimate of Revenue, accountability and authority, preparation of vouchers, certification, payment of vouchers,
transfer payments and inter departmental transactions, custody of public money, imprest and bank accounts,
general regulations, stamps, statutory funds. etc.
2. Government Procurement procedure:
Obtaining goods, services and work, composition, appointments, powers and functions of Tender Boards and
Technical Evaluation Committees, tender evaluation procedure.
¾ Failure in one question paper shall not have any effect on the result of any other question paper.
¾ Minimum of 40% marks shall be obtained in each question paper to pass the 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination.
Appendix 04
3rd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers appointed to Grade I of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service :
This is a certificate obtained at the end of a Training Course on Capacity Building conducted by the Commissioner
General of Inland Revenue.
Appendix 05
Syllabus of the departmental examination for the officers appointed to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service :
Tax Law  - (i) One question paper on Case Law relating to Income Tax and Value  Added Tax.
(ii) One question paper in Statutory Law governing Income Tax, Stamp Duty and any other
tax administered by the Department of Inland  Revenue.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2013
16A
Accountancy -   ( i) One question paper on Book Keeping and Accountancy based on the double entry
system.
(ii) One question paper in preparation of accounts from incomplete records and other
information.
Tax Computation - One paper   on basic computation of the Tax Liability through  adjustments of Audited
Accounts in accordance with Tax Law.
Tax Policy and - One question paper on Tax Policy and Tax Administration with special reference to Sri
Administration Lanka.
Computer - One question paper on the basic usage of computers with special reference to  the
Application Department of Inland Revenue.
¾ Failure in one question paper shall not have any effect on the result of the another question paper.
¾ Minimum of 40% marks should be obtained from each paper to pass the departmental examination.
 Appendix 06
The syllabus of the examination for promotion to Grade II from Grade III of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service under
Exceptional Performance.
(a) Written Examination:
Tax Law  - A multiple choice question paper on Income Tax and Indirect Taxes  administered   by the Department of
Inland Revenue.
(b) Minimum of 60 marks out of 100 (total marks) shall be obtained to pass the  examination.
(c ) The  promotion  examination  will  be  conducted  once  a year  under the Exceptional Performance.
Appendix 07
The post graduate qualification to be completed by the officers in Grade II of the Sri Lanka Inland Revenue Service :
A Post Graduate Degree in one of the following subject areas should be obtained from a recognized University or from an
institution recognized by the University Grants Commission to award Post-Graduate Degrees or from a Higher Educational
Institution recognized by the Public Service Commission. The Post- Graduate Degree should include at least one year
academic period.
(a) Economics/ Econometrics/ Financial Economics/ Development Economics
(b) Commerce/ Financial Management/ Business Management/ Public Management/  Public Administration /
Public Policies/ Taxation/ Tax Administration/ International  Trade
(c) Mathematics/ Statistics/  Quantitative Techniques and Quantitative Analysis
(d) Information Technology/Computer Science/Management Information Systems
(e) Human Resources Management/ Marketing Management/ Communication/ Production Management/ Law
(f) Any other subject area recognized by the Public Service Commission.
04-645
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.