

<!-- page 1 -->

679 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .13
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2007
679
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 681
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th July, 2007, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 06th July, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
July 13th, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,506 _ 2007 °ì¨Ł  13 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .07 .13
No. 1,506 – FRIDAY , JULY 13, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,505 of 06.07.2007 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .13
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2007
680
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

681 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .13
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2007
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
OFFICE OF THE SRI LANKA EDUCATIONAL
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
Officers in the Sri Lanka Educational Administrative service will be
held in October 2007, in Colombo.
02. Scheme and syllabus of the Examination published in the Gazette
Extra ordinary of the Democratic socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
No. 1,225/32 dated 01.03.2002 is indicated below for easy reference.
(a) The first Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects;
Subject Number 001 General Administration-Constitution
of Sri Lanka, Provisions of the
Establishment Code and Other
Regulations of the Government.
Subject Number 002 Finance
Subject Number 003 Education, Education Law,
Administration and Supervision.
(b) An officer may take up the subject of the 1st Efficiency Bar
Exemption. on one and the same occasion or on separate occasions.
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hours duration.
03. Scheme of Examination
(a) General Administration :
The Ceylon (a) (Constitution and independence); Orders
in Council, 1946 and 1947 (C379) The Citizenship Act
No. 18 of 1948 (C. 349) The constitution adopted and
enacted on 22nd May 1972;Registrations of Elections Act
No. 44 of 1980;Parliamentary Elections Act No. 19 of
1981; Referendum Act No. 07 of 1981;Presidential
Elections Act No. 15 of 1981; The constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(b) Office and Field Organisation and Methods :-The
Establishment code - Chapters I, II, III, IV , V , VII, IX, X,
XI, XVI, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII, XLVIII
(ii) Finance :
(a) The Financial Regulation of the Government Part 1 (Except
Chapter X)
(b) The Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the current
year, e. g. their arrangements; The Head of Revenue, Finance
and Appropriation, Acts
(c) Ordinances and Other Legislation relating to Specific
Accounts dealt with in Education office
(iii) Education, Education Law, Administration and Supervision
(a) Education Law - Candidates are excepted to be familiar with
following Ordinances and Acts of Parliament-
Education Ordinance No. 31 of 1939
Amendment Ordinance No. 26 of 1947
Amendment Act, No. 05 of 1951
Amendment Act, No. 43 of 1953
Code of Regulations for Government Schools,
Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions) Act No. 05 of 1960
Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (supplementary
Provisions) Act No. 08 of 1961
Education (Change of Designations) Act No. 35 of 1973
Pirivena Act No. 64 of 1979
The Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act No. 65 of 1981
National Institute of Education Act No. 28 of 1985
(b) Educational Administration-
1. Policies of the Ministry of Education
(i) Ministry of Education
(ii) The Organization of the Ministry of Education
and Development and Agencies under the
Ministry including District Education
Departments and their functions.
(iii)Educational Planning at National and Regional
levels; Aims and Objectives, methods (including
school mapping) implementation etc.
2. School Management, School community relationship
3. Educational Mangement information Systems
4. Special; Education Programmes.
(c) Education supervision-
Scheme for school supervision and criteria used in evaluation
of teacher performance.
Continuous evaluation programmes in schools, Self
evaluation programmes in schools.
School Supervision by the District Departments and the
Ministry of Education
Validation of Internal Evaluation by External by Teams;
(Candidates are advised to be through with the Circulars
Manuals and other Publication issed by the Ministry of
Education)
Reference:-
Asian Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (1970)
Modern Management Techniques in Educational Administration.
A Report of a Seminar-NewDelhi
Barry and Tye (1975) Running a school- Temple Smith Londan
Bush T. Glatter, R. Gooday, I. Riches, C. (eds. 1980) Approaches to
School Management, Harper and Row.
Khan Dr. Mohideen Sheriff (1989) School Administration, New
Delhi.
Ministry of Education-Ceylon (1969) Education in Ceylon
B2 -B 079521

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .13
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2007
682
A Centenary V olome Part II, Part III Ministry of Education and
Cultural Affairs, Ceylon.
Open University (1981) Policy Making, Organization and Leadership
in Shools (Block 4 of Course E 323)
Open University Press Londan
Shipman, Mortem (1983) In School Evaluation, Heineman Education
Books,
Report on the Management Reforms in the Ministry of Education,
July, 1984.
04. Candidates should obtain 40% the total marks allocate for each
subject for a pass.
05. Language medium of the Examination
(i) Candidates can answer the question papers in any one of
the official Languages
(ii) In the language medium of the Competitive Examination
he passed to enter the public service, if there was no
competitive examination, language medium of qualifying
examination to enter public service.
06. If it is dectected that a candidate has sat for the examination in a
language medium, for which he is not entitled his/her candidature will
be cancelled.
07. Applications should be prepared and submitted in a Foolscap
sheet using both side of the paper and according to the specimen
appended. Indicate the name of the examination in English in addition
to the Sinhala in the application, also in the Tamil application, indicate
the name of the examination in English in addition on Tamil.
08. The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examination and the candidates are bound by the rules prescribe
by him for conducting examinations. These rules are indicated at the
end of this notification.
09. Applications should be forwarded under registered post through
Heads of Departments addressed to the Commissioner General of
the Examinations. Pelawatta Battaramulla, to be received on or before
13th August, 2007. Name of the examinations should be written on
the top left hand corner of the envelope. Any application received
after this date will be rejected.
10. If admission cards are not received at least seven days before the
date of examination, candidates should contact the Commissioner
General of Department of Examinations, Organization sand foreign
Examinations Branch. Pelawatta Battaramulla.
Telegraphic address is “Exams” Battaramulla. Following
information should be supplied while promptly informing the
Commissioner General, Examinations regarding admission cards which
are not received.
(i) Name of examinations;
(ii) Full name of candidate;
(iii)Candidates address in full;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered letter number
and Post Office;
Applicants residing close by can contact the Commissioner General
Examinations (E) Branch through a messenger.
11. Complaints from candidates who fail to fulfill the requirements
indicated in para 9 above will not be considered.
12. At the examination hall it is the responsibility of the candidates
to produce evidence in proff of their Identity and for this purpose
only the identity card issued by the Department of Registration of
persons and a valid passport will accepted.
13. Fees for examinations will be charged as Follows
(a) First instance (fees will not be levied for the whole
examination or part of it)
(b) Thereafter, for each instance.
For the whole examination Rs. 225.00
For one Subject Rs. 75.00
candidates should pay the fees by revenue stamps which are
properly cancelled by placing their signature on it.
A
RIYARATNE  HEWAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
20th June, 2007,
Ministry of Education,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
Specimen Application
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka
Educational Administrative Service
(To be forwarded to Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Battaramulla, Pelawatta under registered post through Head of the
Department)
(Name of the Examination should be indicated on the top left-corner
of the envelope enclosing the application)
01. (a) Name with initials (English block letters) :————.
(Ex. : Silva S. A)
(b) Names denoted by the initials (English block letters) :—–.
02. Date of Birth :
03. (a) Designation : ————.
(b) Department/Zonal Education department/Division/School :
————.
04. (a) Postal Address : ————.
(b) Private Address : ————.
(c) Address for dispatch of Admission Card (English block
letters) : ————.

<!-- page 5 -->

683 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .13
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.07.2007
05. Subjects offered with the subjects numbers as indicated in cage
2(a) of the notification (write clearly)
Subject Number : ……………… Subject : ………………
Subject Number : ……………… Subject : ………………
Subject Number : ……………… Subject : ………………
06. The Language medium of the examination : ————.
07. State whether you have sat this examination prviously, in whole
or in part if so state subjects year and month
Year Subject Medium
……………… ……………… ………………
……………… ……………… ………………
……………… ……………… ………………
08. I here by declare that the particulrs given above are correct and
that I am entitled to sit the examination in the medium indicated in
para 06 above. I also agree to abide by the rules and regulations of the
the examination.
09. The amount of Examination fees paid :
Stamps for payment of fees should be properly affixed here.
———––––––—
Signature of the candidate.
Date : ————.
The Commissioner General of Examinations,
Forwarded,
I certify that the candidate whose particular appear above is eligible
to sit this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit in the medium
indicated in para 6.
I further certify that the stamp/stamps has/have been duly cancelled
by the candidate himself.(*)
–––––––––––————
Head of the Department’s
Signature and Designation.
Date : ————.
(*)  Please strike off when money is paid.
07-167
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.