

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 2357$52 – 2023 fkdjeïn¾ 11 jeks fikiqrdod – 2023'11'11
2357/52 – SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2023
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G40715 – 24 (2023/11)
My No.: id.s$j;=$4$2023.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT -  CHAPTER  131
THE  Collective Agreement entered into between Employers Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, 
Rajagiriya of the one part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs Union (Supervisory Staff), No. 06, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the 
other part on 11th November 2022 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of 
the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Prabath Chandrakeerthi ,
 Commissioner General of L abour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
26th October, 2023.
Collective Agreement No. 5 of 2023
  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT - SUPERVISOR STAFF
 This Collective Agreement made and entered into between The Employers' Federation of Ceylon, 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, 
Rajagiriya of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, Second Part, on this 11th 
day of November, Two Thousand and Twenty Two witnessed as follows:-


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 2A
1. Title.-
 This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Supervisory Staff Collective Agreement.
2. Employers Covered And Bound .-
This Agreement shall bind the members of The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon, whose names are contained in Schedule 
I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be according to context, for and in 
respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3. Union And Employees Covered And Bound .-
This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and members of 
the said Union who are in employment in the member companies of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on monthly 
contracts of employment and in respect of categories of employees given in Schedule II, hereon.
4. Earlier Agreements .-
The provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to 
the existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the ‘disputes 
committee’ and thereafter to the Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act if the matter 
is not resolved before the ‘disputes committee’, but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union 
action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5. Date Of Operation And Duration.-
Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be effective from 01st October 2022 and shall thereafter 
continue in force unless terminated by either party by giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, subject to the condition that no party shall give such notice to the other before 30th September 2025.
6. General Terms And Conditions.-
 i. The revised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 01st October 2022 
and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect 
from the said date.
 ii. Grading of employees covered shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
 iii. Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer Junior Asst. Field Officer shall be re-
designated as Asst. Field Officer with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 iv. Upon completion of 10 years satisfactory service under the same employer and 20 years experience in the industry, 
Field Officer shall be re-designated as Special Grade Field Officer with a minimum of one (1) increment.
 v. Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to enjoy 
same.
7. First Appointment .-
 i  No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he has successfully completed the G.C.E. 
(Ordinary Level) Examination with English and Arithmetic/Mathematics. This will not apply to those who have 
experience in the trade.
 ii All designations of new recruits should be as specified under Schedule II hereof.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 3A
8. Probation.-
  On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months subject to the right of 
the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of 
unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the 
event of the probationary period not being extended after the period of 6 months, an employee shall be deemed to be 
confirmed notwithstanding there being no letter of confirmation. During the period of probation or extended probation 
the Employer shall have the right to terminate his/her services without notice or assigning reasons therefor.
9. Attendance At Work.-
Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer, an employee shall present himself for work on every day other 
than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available 
for work throughout the normal working hours.
10. Promotions.-
 i.  Wherever vacancies exist, all other factors being comparable, seniority shall be given preference. The Employers 
shall advertise internally vacancies where employees covered by this Agreement may have appropriate skills and 
qualifications to make them eligible.
 ii. Where an employee acts in a senior capacity over a period of 6 months and if he is confirmed in the senior capacity, 
he will not be required to serve a period of probation.
 iii.  Where an employee is required to act in a senior capacity for a period of more than one month it should be 
communicated to him in writing and he shall be paid an Acting Allowance of Rupees Two Thousand Five Hundred 
(Rs.2,500/-) per mensem. When confirmed, this acting allowance shall be added to the salary.
 iv. When promoting an employee to a senior position, a salary increase of minimum one (1) increment shall be granted.
 
 v. If an employee obtains a work-related course certificate from, National Institute of Plantation Management (other 
than the courses initiated by the company) as approved by the management, such employee shall be granted  special 
increments with reimbursement of course fee and to be considered for a higher position.
 
 vi.  Overlooking periods shall not exceed 6 months and during that period the employer shall pay the employee 10% of 
the employees’ basic salary as an overlooking allowance. This functional allowance shall not attract any consequential 
benefits such as EPF and ETF.
11.  Salaries.-
 
 1.  The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall be revised as follows:
 i With effect from 01st October 2022, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment shall be increased 
by 25% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.
 ii. With effect from 01st October 2024, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment, shall be increased 
by 5% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.
 iii. Subject to the provisions set out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound shall 
pay the revised salaries in the month of October 2022.
 iv. In the case of Stenographers/Clerical staff and Storekeepers/Clerical staff who are entitled to an allowance on account 
of work as a Stenographer or Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive his/her 
allowances at the rate of 15% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the additional 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 4A
duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in respect of this 
allowance.
 v. In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule II of 
this Agreement.
 vi. Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in the scale will continue to receive annual increments if 
they continue to remain within the same category
2. i.  With effect from the date hereof, employees who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff quarters being provided 
to them shall receive a 10% increment of the following allowances, depending on the grade to which they belong, 
and the revised allowance will be as follows:
  Junior Asst. Field Officer - Rs. 1,350/= + 10% = Rs. 1,500/=
  Asst Field Officer - Rs. 1,450/= + 10% = Rs. 1,600/=  
  Field Officer - Rs. 1,680/= + 10% = Rs.1,850/=
  Field Officer Special Grade - Rs. 1,850/= + 10% = Rs.2,050/=
 
 ii.  In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the Employer, such person shall be liable to disciplinary 
action.
 
12.  Annual Increments.-
 i  Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year’s service. The increments will be awarded 
in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform date to all 
employees, in the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on which increments 
are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the following year.
 ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred, by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after the 
employee has been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be continuous, 
whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
 iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to all employees in employment as on 01st October 2022.
  Junior Asst. Field Officer  Rs. 775/=   
  Asst. Field Officer  Rs. 925/=
  Field Officer  Rs.1,675/=
  Field Officer Special Grade  Rs.2,125/=
13.  Weekly And Poya Holidays.-
 The working week shall be 6 days or 48 hours. One day each week shall be allowed as off day. Work on the weekly off  
day, statutory holiday shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by 240 (two hundred forty) multiplied by 1 1/2 (one 
and half) times.
14.   Hours Of Work And Overtime.-
 i. The working week shall be six days totalling forty eight hours. One day each week shall be allowed as an off day. 
Work on the weekly off day or in excess of forty eight hours per week or nine hours per day shall be deemed to be 
overtime.
 ii. If required by his employer, an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the employer. 
Each hour of overtime work shall be calculated by dividing the monthly salary by two hundred and forty (240) 
multiplied by one and a half (1 1/2) times.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 5A
15.  Holidays.-
 i.  All employees covered by this Agreement will be entitled to the following six(6) holidays:
  Tamil Thai Pongal Day
  National Day
  Day Prior to Sinhala and Tamil New Year
  Sinhala and Tamil New Year Day
  May Day
  Christmas Day
 
 ii Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated guided by the decisions of the relevant wages boards.
 iii  Two (2) days leave on full pay shall be allowed in each year to each employee on account of the religious persuasions 
of such employee. Such leave may not be taken in continuation with casual leave.
16.  Leave.-
 1)  Annual Leave  -Employees shall be entitled to a maximum of 14 days Annual Leave. In the first year the leave entitlement 
shall be on a proportionate basis. All employees with more than 20 years service and Heads of Departments shall be 
entitled to three weeks paid annual leave as a special benefit: This right shall not extend to any employee recruited after 
1st September 1993. Annual leave not utilized in any one year shall not be carried over to the next year
 2)  Casual Leave  - All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual Leave with full pay, 
not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not utilized in any one year will not be carried over to 
the next year.
3)  (i)  Sick Leave  - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick leave will 
be granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three days and 
over, a medical certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be considered 
necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a medical certificate as aforementioned, where he deems 
it appropriate.
  (ii)   in the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his leave, 
which he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to the 
condition however that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.
 (iii)   In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of sick leave he shall be permitted 
to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.
4)  Maternity Leave  - Maternity Leave will be granted as per the provisions of the Maternity Benefits Ordinance.
17.   Administrative Transfers.-
 i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to the 
exigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management with 
one month’s notice in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one division to another which are likely to cause hardship on account of 
children’s schooling or the spouse's employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with three calendar 
months’ notice in writing, on or before 30th September.
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time, will not be transferred in 
that particular year.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 6A
 iv Transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 1 in school also will beconsidered, on a case-
by-case basis.
 v No employee shall be transferred from one plantation company to another managed by the same management 
company without the consent of the employee.
 vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year 
prior to his retirement.
 vii The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii) (iii) and (iv) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, but 
the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
18.  Age Of Retirement.-
  The age of retirement will be as per the provisions of the Minimum Retirement Age of Workers Act No.28 of 2021
  Provided that, an employer may pre-maturely retire an employee on the grounds as provided for in the Act, referred 
above.
19.  Gratuity.-
  Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983.
20.  Disciplinary Inquiries.-
 i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance of 
business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay he shall be notified in a general manner 
of the reasons for such suspension within 3 days of the actual suspension.
 ii  An employee may also be suspended with pay pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the Management 
deems that such measure is necessary.
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a ‘show cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer 
or explanation. Where necessary the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable 
amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in 
exceptional circumstances.
 iv If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the 
Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 
30 working days from the date on which the explanation to the ‘show cause’ letter is received, unless circumstances 
prevent the employer from doing so.
 v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the Inquiry. Such representative shall not 
be a professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation he shall inform the Superintendent 
of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent 
may object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. 
The failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
 vi The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working 
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 7A
findings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case 
of a pending criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does 
not apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii  Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee 
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification 
for summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
21.  Suspension Pending Disciplinary Inquiries.-
 i  An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie  evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct 
against him.
 ii Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (i) above for any period in excess of one 
month shall be on half pay.
 iii The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee 
pending inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit Verifications.
22.  Suspension As A Measure Of Punishment.-
 i Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided however that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen days without pay and shall be in writing.
 ii Punishment in excess of three days suspension without pay shall only be after a domestic inquiry. Such suspension 
shall be in writing.
23.  Variations Of Terms And Conditions Of Employment And Disputes.-
 i Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or 
add to any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
 ii Any employee enjoying a benefit which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the 
same as personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to 
the consumption of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.
 iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner 
General of Labour under the Industrial disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration 
thereafter
 iv It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members, shall not 
resort to any form of trade union action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
 
24.  Disputes Resolution Committee.-
 It is agreed by parties that a Disputes Resolution Committee' will meet once in three months to resolve any dispute that 
may arise as set out in clause above as well as in relation to any violation of the provisions of this agreement, if required. 
However, in case of an urgent necessity a meeting will be held with two weeks' notice. Decisions arrived at the Disputes 
Resolution Committee shall be implemented within an agreed period between the parties.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 8A
25.  Duty Leave.-
 i Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union 
will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent 
Union, as specified in sub clause (i) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between 
parties.
 iii  By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasurer of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave in any one year.
 iv By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days 
duty leave which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall 
not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 v By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman and Sub-Branch Chairman of the Union shall 
be allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that 
the total leave availed jointly by these two office bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 vi Duty leave shall be granted to one employee selected from amongst all staff categories per estate selected by the 
union to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the union or any other labour related institute on not more than 
two occasion in a year for a period not exceeding four (4) days. The Union shall inform the Employers in writing 
the requirement of duty leave required in terms of this clause.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement more fully described in Schedule I to this 
Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to employees in a situation of amalgamation/
sub leasing of estates/divisions/factories prior to such situations. However, the relevant regional plantation company 
shall continue to be the Employer of such employee.
2. Electricity.-
 Free electricity would be granted to members of staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying 
in the past.
 Elevation below 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
  Senior staff - 140 units
  Junior staff - 100 units
 Elevation above 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)
  Senior staff - 170 units
  Junior staff - 130 units
 Recoveries for any excess usage will be made once in 6 months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each 
estate.
 Kerosene - Employer shall provide 25 litres kerosene per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions 
without electricity.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 9A
3. Tea Allowance.-
 The employer shall provide free tea, on the following basis, to members of estate staff (including future recruits in those 
categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
  Senior staff - 2 Kgs.
  Junior staff - 1 ½ Kgs.
 The staff members could purchase in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA 
or COP whichever is lower.
 Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992 would be 
entitled to purchase a maximum of 3 kgs at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA whichever is lower with effect 
from 1st June 2003.
  Death Grant.-
1. With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the dependents will be paid a sum of Rupees Two 
Hundred Thousand (Rs.200,000/=) as funeral expenses.
2. The dependents of the deceased staff member will be paid a 50% of the sum equivalent to 3 months’ salary within one 
month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the dependents hand over the staff quarters.
3. If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to 3 months’ 
salary within one month of the death of the staff member.
 Medical Aid Scheme.-
1. The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers’ contribution shall be 10%.
2. A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to his/her credit in 
the fund inclusive of the company’s contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/her 
employment from the estate.
 
 Union Subscription.-
 i  The Employer agrees, on the written request of an employee, to deduct from the wages due to such employee, the 
current monthly union subscription as specified by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the 
union and remit the amount so deducted to the union by the following month till such time the employee maintains 
his request.
 ii In the event of the union being representative of the employees, no remittance in respect of check-off would be 
made thereafter.
 
 INTERPRETATION.-
Word                                           Meaning
Union  means the union referred to as the Party of the Second part in this Agreement.
Dispute  shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer  means a Company who has subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week  means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Year  means a continuous period of 12 months,
Gender  a reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.
 
 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 10A


<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 11A


<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 12A
EOG–11–0105

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 13A
My No.: id.s$j;=$3$2023  
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE  Collective Agreement entered into between Employers Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J3, Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya 
of the one part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs Union (Maintenance & Support Staff), No. 06. Aloe Avenue, Colombo 03 of the 
other part on 11th November 2022 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act,Chapter 131, of 
the Legislative Enactment of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
 B. K. Prabath Chandrakeerthi,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour, 
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
26th October, 2023.
This Collective Agreement made and entered into on the into between the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, No. 385 J3, 
Old Kotte Road, Rajagiriya of the First Part and the Ceylon Estate Staffs' Union of No. 6, Aloe Avenue, Colombo 3, of the 
Second Part, on this 11th day of November, Two Thousand and Twenty Two witnessed as follows:-
1.   Title.–  
  This Agreement shall be known as the Plantations Maintenance & Support Staff Collective Agreement.
2.   Employers Covered and Bound.–  
  This Agreement shall bind the members of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon, whose names are contained in Schedule 
I hereto and hereinafter referred to as the Employers or Employer, as the case may be, according to context for and in 
respect of the categories of employees hereinafter described in Clause 3 hereof.
3.   Unions and Employees Covered and Bound.–  
  This Agreement shall cover and bind the aforesaid Trade Union, hereinafter referred to as the Union, and members of 
the said Union who are in employment in the member companies of the Federation referred to in Schedule I on monthly 
contracts of employment and in respect of categories of employees given in Schedule II, hereon.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 14A
4.   Earlier Agreements.–  
  The Provisions of this Agreement shall supersede and replace any earlier Agreements in respect of these categories and 
shall be deemed conclusive in relation to all terms and conditions. In the event of there being any dispute with regard to 
the existence of any other term or condition not contained herein, the same shall be resolved by reference to the 'disputes 
committee' and thereafter to the Commissioner General of Labour in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act if  the matter 
is not resloved before the 'disputes committee', but the party of the Second Part shall not be entitled to take trade union 
action on the basis of the existence of any such alleged term or condition.
5.   Date of Operation and Duration.–  
  Subject to any provisions to the contrary, this Agreement shall be effective from 01st October 2022 and shall thereafter 
continue in force unless terminated by either party by giving notice of termination in terms of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, subject to the conditions that no party shall give such notice to the other before 30th September 2025.
 
6.  General Terms and Conditions.–  
 i The rivised terms and conditions relating to this Agreement shall only come into force on the 01st October 2022 
and shall be deemed to be included in all contracts of employment of those covered by this Agreement with effect 
from the said date.
 ii All employees coverd by this Agreement on completion of 15 years service under the same employer shall be 
granted  an additional Rs 100 annual increment.
 iii Any employee enjoying better terms and conditions than what is stipulated in this Agreement shall continue to 
enjoy same.
 iv Grading of employees shall be at the discretion of the Employer.
7.   First Appointment.–  
 i No person will be recruited to a grade covered by this Agreement unless he/she has required knowledge and 
experience in the trade.
 ii All designations of new recruits should be as specified in Schedule II hereof.
8.  Probation.–  
  On recruitment every employee shall serve a period of probation of not more than six months, subject to the right of 
the Employer to extend the probationary period for a further period of three months at his discretion for reasons of 
unsatisfactory performance, misconduct or other justifiable cause. Confirmation shall be by letter. However, in the 
event of the probationary period not being extended after the period of six months, the employee shall be deemed 
to be confirmed, notwithstanding there being no letter of confirmation. During the period of probation or extended 
probation, the Employer shall have the right to terminate his/her services without notice or assigning reasons thereof.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 15A
 9.  Attendance at work.–  
  Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every day other 
than a holiday due to him, at the usual starting time and at the usual working place and shall thereafter remain available 
for work throughout the normal working hours.
 
 10.  Salaries.–  
 1.  The salaries payable to the employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall be revised as follows:
 i With effect from 01st October 2022, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment shall be increased 
by 25% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.
 ii With effect from 01st October 2024, the salaries of covered employees who are in employment shall be increased 
by 5% based on the salary drawn in September 2022.
 iii Subject to the provisions set  out in clause 6 (i) above, the Regional Plantations Companies covered and bound 
shall pay the revised salaries in the month of October 2022.
 
 iv. In the case of Stenographers/Clerical staff and Storekeepers/Clerical staff who are entitled to an allowance on 
account of work as a Stenographer or Storekeeper, as the case may be, such employee shall continue to receive 
his/her allowances at the rate of 15% of the salary drawn by him/her. The allowances shall not be payable if the 
additional duties are not performed or not deemed necessary. Contributions to EPF and ETF shall be made in 
respect of this allowance.
 v. In terms of the above salary revision, the salary ranges applicable will accordingly be revised as per schedule II 
of this Agreement.
 vi. Employees who reach the maximum salary point depicted in the scale will continue to receive annual increments 
if they continue to remain within the same category
 2. i. With effect from date hereof, employees covered by this Agreement, who are entitled to a payment in lieu of staff 
quarters being provided to them, shall receive a payment of Rs. 1,500/= per month.
 ii. In the event of any person not occupying quarters provided by the employer such person shall be liable to 
disciplinary action.
11. Annual Increments.-
 i. Annual increments shall be granted automatically on completion of a year’s service. The increments will be 
awarded in accordance with the practice prevailing on each estate. Where increments are awarded on a uniform 
date to all employees, in the event of an employee being confirmed in service within six months of the date on 
which increments are awarded, he shall not be entitled to any increment and will become eligible only from the 
following year.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 16A
 ii An increment may be suspended, stopped or deferred by way of punishment or for general inefficiency, after 
the employee has been notified in writing of such fact. In the case of deferment, the loss of increment shall be 
continuous, whereas stoppage would be only for the period relevant to the stoppage.
 iii Revised annual increments shall be paid as stated below to all employees in employment as on 01st October 
2022.
 Lorry/Tractor Driver/Electrician/Mechanic/Motor Mechanic         Rs.775/=
 Blacksmith/Carpenter/Engine Driver/Welder/Backhoe Operator/
 Electrical Foreman
 All employees on completion of 15 years’ service                                      Rs.875/=
12. Hours Of Work And Overtime.-
 i.  The decisions of the relevant Wages Board shall apply.
 ii.  If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the 
Employer. Rates of overtime shall be according to the decisions of the relevant Wages Board. 
13. Holiday.-
 i.  All employees covered by this Agreement will be enttitled to the following Eight (8) Holidays:
  Tamil Thai Pongal Day 
  National Day
  Day Prior to Sinhala and Tamil New Year 
  Sinhala and Tamil New Year Day 
  May Day
  Day Following Vesak Full Moon Poya Day 
  Holy Prophet’s Birthday (Milad-Un-Nabi)
  Christmas Day
 ii.  Payment for work on such holidays shall be remunerated according to the decisions of the relevant wages 
boards.
14. Weekly And Poya Holidays. -
  An employee will be entitled to weekly holidays and half-holidays as per the relevant Wages Board decisions.
15. Leave.-
 1. Annual Leave  - Employees presently enjoying 14 days annual leave shall continue to do so. Others will receive 
annual holidays in accordance with the relevant Wages Board decisions applicable to them. . Annual leave not 
utilized in any one year shall not be carried over to the next year.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 17A
 2. Casual Leave  - All employees shall be entitled in each year to a maximum of seven (7) days Casual leave with 
full pay, not more than three (3) days being taken at a time. Casual leave not utilized in any one year will not be 
carried over to the next year.
 3. (i)  Sick Leave  - Leave on full pay shall be granted up to a maximum of 21 working days in a year. Sick 
leave will be granted up to two days at a time without the submission of a Medical Certificate. For leave of three 
days and over, a Medical Certificate from an approved Medical Practitioner or a Government Hospital shall be 
considered necessary, subject to the right of the Employer to call for a Medical Certificate as aforementioned, 
where he deems it appropriate.
  (ii)  In the event of an employee not availing himself of his full quota of sick leave, he may carry forward his 
leave, which he could use in the event of hospitalization or a prolonged illness in a succeeding year, subject to 
the condition, however, that he cannot avail himself of more than 90 days on that account.
  (iii) In the case of an employee whose terms presently permit him a higher quantum of Sick leave, he shall be 
permitted to continue to enjoy such concession as personal to him.
16. Administrative Transfers .-
 
 i Transfers not involving hardship in relation to schooling of children or employment of a spouse, will, subject to 
the exigencies of the service and the requirements of the Employer, be made at the discretion of the Management 
with one month’s notice, in writing.
 ii Transfers from one estate to another or from one Division to another which are likely to cause hardship on 
account of children’s schooling or the spouse’s employment shall generally be made at the end of the year with 
three (3) calendar months’ notice, in writing, on or before 30th September.
 iii Employees whose children are sitting for the GCE OL/AL examination for the first time will not be transferred 
in that particular year.
 iv The transfers of Employees whose children are to be admitted to Grade 1 in School also will be considered on a 
case-by-case basis.
 v No transfers shall be effected from one plantation company to another managed by the same management 
company, without the consent of the employee.
 vi No employee covered by this Agreement shall be transferred, except on disciplinary grounds, in the last year 
prior to his retirement.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 18A
 vii The provisions of sub-clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above shall not apply to transfers on disciplinary grounds, 
but the Management shall give reasonable notice, depending on the circumstances of each case.
17. Age of Retirement.-
  The age of retirement will be as per the provisions of the Minimum Retirement Age of Workers Act No.28 of 
2021.
  Provided that, an employer may pre-maturely retire an employee on the grounds as provided for in the Act, 
referred above.
18. Gratuity.-
  Gratuity shall be payable in accordance with the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983.
19. Disciplinary Inquiries.-
 i An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer pending an inquiry on a charge which warrants 
dismissal or where, in the opinion of the Employer, a breach of the peace, damage to property or disturbance 
of business needs to be avoided. Where an employee is suspended without pay, he shall be notified in a general 
manner of the reasons for such suspension within three days of the actual suspension.
 ii An employee may also be suspended with pay, pending a disciplinary investigation and inquiry, where the 
Management deems that such measure is necessary.
 iii An employee is entitled to be furnished with a 'show-cause’ notice setting out the charges of misconduct alleged 
against  him and the employee shall be granted not less than seven (7) clear working days in which to give the answer 
or explanation. Where necessary, the employee may request further time and the Employer shall permit a reasonable 
amount of time depending on the nature of the charges, but not exceeding a total of 14 working days, other than in 
exceptional circumstances.
 iv If the Employer is satisfied with the written explanation, the employee shall be exonerated of the charge or charges 
and where appropriate, he shall be summoned to report back for work. Where the explanation is unsatisfactory, the 
Employer shall hold a disciplinary inquiry within a reasonable length of time and shall commence such inquiry within 
30 working days from the date on which the explanation to the ‘show-cause’ letter is received, unless circumstances 
prevent the Employer from doing so.
 v An employee shall be permitted to have a Union member to defend him at the inquiry. Such representative shall not be 
a professional. If the employee wishes to have the benefit of such representation, he shall inform the Superintendent  
of the name of the person defending him at least 48 hours before the inquiry is due to commence. The Superintendent 
may object to the individual selected, in which event the accused employee may nominate another representative. The 
failure of an employee to be defended by a representative shall not vitiate the inquiry.
 vi The Employer shall endeavour to give the findings and convey the punishment, if any, within a period of 30 working 
days from the date on which the inquiry is concluded, unless there is justification for the delay. In no case shall the 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 19A
findings be delayed beyond 90 working days from the date of conclusion of the inquiry, save and except in the case 
of a pending criminal investigation. If no findings are given within 90 working days and the above exception does not 
apply, the accused employee shall be exonerated of the charges.
 vii Notwithstanding the above provisions, an Employer may, where the circumstances so warrant, terminate an employee 
summarily. In such event, the letter of termination shall set out the reasons for termination, including the justification 
for summary termination. In such event, the Union may appeal to the Employer or to the appropriate forum.
20.  SUSPENSION PENDING DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES
 i An employee may be suspended from work without pay for a period not exceeding one month, pending a disciplinary 
inquiry when there is prima facie evidence, in the opinion of the Employer, of a charge or charges of misconduct 
against him. Such suspension shall be in writing.
 ii Suspension of an employee on the ground referred to in sub-clause (i) above for any period in excess of one month 
shall be on half pay.
 iii The provisions contained in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above shall not apply to the suspension of an employee pending 
inquiries by the Police, by other Public Authorities or Audit verifications.
 
21. SUSPENSION AS A MEASURE OF PUNISHMENT
 i Punishment for offences in the case of an employee may include suspension, provided, however, that such suspension 
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days without pay and shall be in writing.
 ii  Punishment in excess of three days’ suspension, without pay, shall only be after a domestic inquiry.
22. VARIATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND DISPUTES
 i Parties hereto agree that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or add to 
any of the terms and conditions of employment, except by mutual consent.
 ii Any employee enjoying a benefit, which is over and above the normal entitlement, shall continue to enjoy the same 
as personal, but this benefit shall not extend to any other employee. The above provision shall not apply to the 
consumption of electricity, where a limit is fixed for all employees.
 iii Any dispute or issue of interpretation of this Agreement shall be resolved by reference to the Commissioner-General 
of Labour under the Industrial Disputes Act, and if no settlement could be reached, by voluntary arbitration thereafter.
 iv It is agreed by and between parties that the Unions, collectively or independently, or their members shall not resort to 
any form of Trade Union Action on any matter covered by this Agreement or is connected therewith.
23. DISPUTES RESOLUTION COMMITTEE
 It is agreed by parties that the Disputes Resolution Committee will meet once in three months to resolve any dispute 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 20A
that may arise in relation to any violation of the provisions of this Agreement. However, in case of an urgent necessity a 
meeting will be held with two weeks’ notice, if requested by either party. 
 Decisions arrived at the Dispute Resolution Committee shall be implemented within a period agreed between the parties.
24. DUTY  LEAVE
 i Subject to the approval of their respective Employers, the President and one other office bearer of the Parent Union 
will be permitted such duty leave as their Union duties require.
 ii Where any dispute arises with regard to duty leave of the President and the nominated office bearer of the Parent 
Union, as specified in sub clause (i) above, the Federation will attempt to effect an amicable settlement between 
parties.
 iii By mutual arrangement with the Employer, the Treasure^ of the Parent Union shall be allowed twelve days duty leave 
in any one year.
 
  iv By arrangement with their respective Employers, two Vice Presidents of the Union shall be allowed twelve days duty 
leave which may be shared, on condition that the total leave availed jointly by these two Vice Presidents shall not 
exceed twelve days in any one year.
  v By arrangement with their respective Employers, Branch Chairman and Sub-Branch  chairman of the  union shall be
  allowed twelve days duty leave which may be shared with the respective Branch Secretaries, on condition that the total 
leave availed jointly by these two office bearers shall not exceed twelve days in any one year.
 vi Duty leave shall be granted to one employee selected from amongst all staff categories per estate selected by the 
union to attend seminars and workshops conducted by the union or any other labour related institute on not more than 
two occasion in a year for a period not exceeding four (4) days. The Union shall inform the Employers in writing the 
requirement of duty leave required in terms of this clause.
Part II
1. The Regional Plantation Companies covered and bound by this Agreement more fully described in Schedule I to this 
Agreement undertakes to discuss with Union to resolve any issues relevant to empolyees in the situation of amalgamation / 
sub-leasing of estates / divisions / factories prior to such situations. However, the regonal plantation company will continue to 
be the Employer.
 
2. Electricity
 Free electricity would be granted to staff on the following basis, irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
 Elevation below, 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)   -  100 units
 Elevation below, 4,500 feet (Factory Elevation)   -  130 units
 Recoveries for any excess unsage will be made once in six months on the accumulated figure at the rate that costs each 
estate.
 Kerosene - The Employer shall provide 25 liters Kerosen per mensem to those employees resident on estates/divisions 
without electricity.
3. Tea Allowance
 The Employer shall provide 11/2 kgs of tea free of charge to members of estate staff (including future recruits in those 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 21A
categories presently entitled) irrespective of what they had been enjoying in the past.
 The staff members could purchase, in addition to the above free tea, the same quantities at the rate of 75% of the NSA or 
COP, whichever is lower.
 Staff members who had been entitled to three or more kilos of tea at a concessionary rate before June 1992, would be 
entitled to purchase a maximum of 3kg at a concessionary rate of 35% of COP or NSA, whichever is lower with effect from 
1st June 2003.
4. Death Grant
 i With effect from the date hereof, on the death of a staff member, the Dependents will be paid a sum of Rupees Two 
Hundred Thousand (Rs, 200,000/=) as funeral expenses.
 ii The Dependents of the deceased staff member will be paid 50% of the sum equivalent to three months' salary within 
one month upon the death of the employee and the balance at the time the Dependents hand over the staff quarters.
 iii If quarters are not provided to the deceased staff member, the Dependents will be paid the sum equivalent to three 
months salary within one month of the death of the staff member.
5. Medical Aid Scheme
 i The Employee contribution to the medical aid scheme will be 5% and the Employers contribution shall be 10%.
 ii A staff member who is a member of the staff medical aid scheme will be paid the total balance lying to hsi/her credit 
in the fund inclusive of the company's contribution to such fund, at the time of retirement/death or termination of his/
her employment from the estate.
6. Union Subscription
 i The Employer agrees, on the written request of an employee, to deduct from the wages due to such employee, the 
current monthly union subscription as specified by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to the union 
and remit the amount so deducted to the union by the following month until such time the employee maintains his 
request.
 ii In the event of the union being representative of less than 40% of the remployees, no remittance in respect of check - 
off would be made thereafter.
INTERPRETATION
Word                                                                meaning
Union means the Union referred to as the Party to as the Party of the Second Part in this Agreement.
Dispute shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer  means a Company who has Subscribed to this Agreement and is referred to in Schedule I hereof.
Week means the period between midnight on any Saturday and midnight on the succeeding Sunday night.
Year  means a continuous period of 12 months.
Gender  a reference to the masculine gender shall include the feminine as well.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 22A


<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 23A


<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2023'11'11
Part I: Sec. (I) – GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.11.2023
 24A
SCHEDULE - II
CATEGORIES OF EMPLOYEES        STARTING
           S A L A R Y
Lorry / Tractor Driver/ Electrician/ Mechanic/ Motor Mechanic/    Rs. 28,690/=
Blacksmith/ Carpenter/ Engine Driver/ Welder/ Backhoe Operator/ 
Electrical Foreman.
All Employees on completion of 15 years service Placed on Grade I    Rs. 28,500/=
EOG 11-0106
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.