

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of  March 12, 2021
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 17.03.2021)
HEART TO HEART TRUST FUND
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Heart to Heart Trust Fund
To be presented in Parliament by  Hon. (Prof.) Tissa Vitarana, M. P.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 17.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
(Private Members’ Bill)
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
Preamble
Short title
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HEART TO HEART TRUST FUND
WHEREAS a Trust Fund called and known as the “Heart to
Heart Trust Fund” has heretofore been established in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected with the said
Trust Fund according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Trust Fund has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Heart to Heart Trust
Fund (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act such and so many persons as now are Trustees of the
“Heart to Heart Trust Fund” (hereinafter referred to as the
Trust Fund) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Heart to Heart Trust Fund” (hereinafter referred to as “the
Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued with
full power and authority to have, and use a common seal and
to alter the same at its pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
Incorporation
of the Heart
to Heart
Trust Fund

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
provisions of the Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote the awareness of the general public on
all matters pertaining to heart diseases including
the cause and prevention of such diseases by
organinsing lectures, seminars and other pertinent
programmes;
(b) to provide financial assistance to heart patients in
need of funds who seek teartments particularly at
Sri Jayawardenepura Hospital and other hospitals
in Sri Lanka;
(c) to do all such other acts and things as are incidental
or conducive to the attainment of the objectives of
the Corporation.
(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political
opinion, place of birth  or any of such grounds.
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or a Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
General
objects of the
Corporation
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
the work of a
Ministry or a
Department
of the
Government
or a Province

<!-- page 4 -->

3Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. (1)  Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
management and administration of the affairs of the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Directors
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) (a) The Trustees of the Trust Fund holding office on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporation
until the first Committee is appointed or elected in the
manner provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office beareer, patron or
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the
death, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an
office bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of
the Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such
vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purposes of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
goods:
Provided that, the Board of Directors shall obtain
the prior written approval of the Department of
External Resources of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance in respect of all
foreign grants, gifts or donations made to the
Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank as decided by the Board of Directors;
(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Corporation, in such manner
as the Board of Directors may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
5
10
15
20
25
30
General
powers of the
Corporation

<!-- page 6 -->

5Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
5
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and employees of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the
Corporation;
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Corporation;
(i) to train personnels in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation; and
(j) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the
following matters:-
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
of or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointments, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;
10
15
20
25
Rules of the
Corporation
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
(d) the procedure to be followed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board or any
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualification and disqualifications to be a
member of the Board and the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) Generally the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its’ objects
and dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which name, address and other essential details of the
members shall be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and
on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or
more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Registry of
members
Fund of the
Corporation
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor
appointed by the Auditor-General in terms of Article 154 of
the Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which,being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited  statement of accounts to
the Secretary of the Minister assigned the subject of Social
Services and to the registrar of voluntary social service
Organizations appointed under the voluntary social service
organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of
1980 before the expiration of six months of the year
succeeding the year to which such report relates.
Accounts and
Auditing
5
10
15
20
25
30
Annual
Report

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and
local moneys received by the Corporation during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Trust Fund existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Trust Fund on that day shall be
paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
14. The moneys and property of the Corporation
however derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the
Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence two
members of the  Board  who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the Trust
 Application
of moneys
and property
Seal of the
Corporation
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immoveble

<!-- page 10 -->

9Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which, is  by the
rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its or  their members.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
Property
remaining on
dissolution
Savings of
the rights of
the Republic
and others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Heart to Heart Trust Fund
(Incorporation)
Department of Government Printing