

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA - 24.11.2020
w;s úfYI
wxl 2203$16 - 2020 fkdjeïn¾ ui 24 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2020'11'24
No. 2203/16 - TUESDAY ,  NOVEMBER 24,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Government  Notiﬁ cations
1A-  PG 5172—570 (12/2020)
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No.  14  of  2008
Order under Sub-section (4) of Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-section (4) of Section 3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No 14 of 
2008 as amended, I Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Finance, do by this Order declare that:-
1 The Noti ﬁ cation containing the relevant information of the Colombo International Financial Centre Mixed Development 
Project, to construct ﬁ ve vertical Iconic Towers at the Colombo Port City which was identiﬁ ed as a Strategic Development 
Project for the purpose of Sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the aforesaid Act, was published in Gazette Extraordinary            
No. 2184/15 dated July 15, 2020;  
2. The approval of the Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained on October 26, 2020 in terms of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 
of the said Act to identify the Colombo International Financial Centre Mixed Development Project, to construct the ﬁ rst
ﬁ ve vertical iconic towers at Colombo Port City, as a Strategic Development Project and for the granting of exemptions
to such project, in terms of Sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the aforesaid Act;
3. The name of the Strategic Development Project shall be “Colombo International Financial Centre (CIFC) Mixed
Development Project” (“the Project”).


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.11.2020
4. The Project shall be implemented in two (02) phases as follows:
Phase 01
Will consist of one international Grade A high rise-ofﬁ ce tower, two high-end residential towers and a retail podium.
Phase 02
Consists of two international Grade A high-rise ofﬁ ce tower and a retail podium.
5. The Project shall commence its commercial operations within ninety six (96) months from the date of the project
agreement entered into between the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and the company to be incorporated for the
purpose of undertaking the execution of the Project (“the Project Company”), as may be approved by the BOI. The
Project Company shall complete Phase 01 of the Project within forty eight (48) months from the date of the aforesaid
project agreement and the Project Company or the Project Company along with a permitted assignee shall complete
Phase 02 of the project within a period of forty eight (48) months from the date of completion of Phase 01 (“Project
Implementation Period”).
6. As approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Project shall be exempt from the application of the provisions of the
enactments speciﬁ ed in the Schedule to this Order and shall apply to the Project Company and/or its permitted assignee,
subject to the limitations speciﬁ ed and shall be operative for the duration, as speciﬁ ed in the Schedule hereto.
SCHEDULE
(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017
Corporate Income Tax
“Tax Exemption Period”
Reckoned from the year of assessment, as may be determined by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, the
provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 relating to imposition of Income tax on the pro ﬁ ts
and income generated from:
(i) approved activities excluding the sale of apartments shall not apply for a period of ﬁ fteen (15) years
(ii) Sale of apartments shall not apply for a period of six (06) years
The said tax exemption period to the entire activities of the Project Company will commence from the year 
in which the Project Company makes taxable pro ﬁ t or three years after commencement of commercial 
operation of the Project, which falls ﬁ rst.
“Concessionary Period”
After the expiry of the tax exemption period, concessionary tax rate of seven per centum (7%) per annum 
or a rate equivalent to ﬁ fty per centum (50%) of the corporate tax rate applicable to the tourism sector 
shall be applicable on the pro ﬁ t and income generated from approved activities for ten (10) years, other 
than the sale of apartments.
For the proﬁ ts and income generated from the sale of apartments, the prevailing corporate tax rate will be 
applicable after the expiry of six (06) year tax exemption period. 
For avoidance of doubt, after the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period and the Concessionary 
Period, income tax in respect of the pro ﬁ t and the income of the Project Company shall be applicable in 
terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF THE  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF SRI  LANKA - 24.11.2020
Dividend Tax 
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted proﬁ t will be exempted from the income tax 
during the said tax exemption period of ﬁ fteen (15) years and one (01) year thereafter.
Withholding Tax
The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following;  
(a) on management fees and royalty payments provided however that total of such charges shall not
exceed three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue;
(b) on marketing fees, provided however the total of such fees shall not exceed one point ﬁ ve per centum 
(1.5%) of the gross operating revenue;
(c) on incentive management fees, provided however the total of such fees shall not exceed ten per
centum (10%) of the gross operating proﬁ t;
(d) on interest of foreign loan, and debt taken for capital expenditure and on technical fee.
PAYE Tax/Personal Income Tax   
 During the Project Implementation Period, up to a maximum number of thirty (30) expatriate staff at any 
given time shall be exempted from the Pay-As-You- Earn (PAYE) Tax/Personal Income Tax applicable.
Further, the Project Company shall be required to gradually replace expatriate staff with local employees 
on a best effort basis. 
The following employee related commitments are also agreed to be employed by the Project Company:
Unskilled labour requirement     :  to be sourced 75% locally
Skilled labour requirement         :  to be sourced 65% locally 
White Collar workers :   to be sourced 75% locally (White Collar workers to be paid in 
foreign currency, if the Project Company is permitted)
(2) Value Added Tax (V AT) Act, No. 14 of 2002
All imports of project related goods and services and local purchases of project related goods or services
required for the implementation of the Project as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall 
be fully exempted from the payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) under Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 
2002 as amended, for a period of ninety six (96) months. 
The V AT exemption shall be applicable not only for direct supplies to the Project Company/Project but also 
supplies made by a sub-contractor to a contractor for supplies to the Project Company/Project as prescribed 
and permitted in the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002.
The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as deﬁ ned in the Value 
Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 on the commencement of commercial operations.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'11'24
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 24.11.2020
(3) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
All imports of construction related items will be exempted from the Customs Duty as approved by the 
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka for the purpose of the Project during the Project Implementation Period 
of ninety six (96) months. All imports of construction related items required for the Project, whether directly 
imported by the Project Company or sourced through contractors provided that the goods are consigned 
in the name of the Project Company shall be exempted from Customs Duty as approved by the Board of 
Investment of Sri Lanka for the purpose of the project during the Project Implementation Period of ninety 
six (96) months.
The Items in the Negative List attached, will also not be allowed to be imported duty free, unless such items 
are either not wholly produced in Sri Lanka or are unavailable in suf ﬁ cient quality, quantity and within 
time lines required for Project completion. 
As such, in general, construction related goods could be imported through a contractor or sub-contractor 
in respect of the project within the Project Implementation Period of ninety six (96) months as provided 
above, only if the Project Company is named as the consignee of such goods. Hence, if such imports have 
been done along with any other imports, the Project Company shall be solely responsible to ensure that the 
concessions noted herein shall be available only for construction related goods of the Project Company, 
if so, for any reason this condition has been violated, taxes and levies payable under laws and regulations 
prevailing at the time shall apply to all goods that do not form part of construction related goods for the 
Project and such taxes shall become payable forthwith. It is noted that any personal effects imported by 
the Project Company for the private/personal use of any employee, consultant or any other of the Project 
Company shall not be treated as project related goods. 
(4) Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The payment and charge of Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL), shall be fully exempted on all 
items, as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka for implementing the project, (whether directly 
imported by the Project Company or source through contractors) during the Project Implementation Period 
of ninety six (96) months.
(5) Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979
Import of project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall be exempted
from the payment of CESS during the Project Implementation Period of ninety six (96) months.
M
AHINDA RAJAPAKSA, 
Minister of Finance.
Ministry of Finance,
Colombo 01, 
November 24, 2020.
12-273
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA