

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
BIBLIOMANIA EDUCATIONAL BOOKS
FOR THE NATION FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 34 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 26th June, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 26, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

1Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
[Certified on 26th June, 2009]
L. D. —O. INC 10/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  BIBLIOMANIA  EDUCATIONAL
B OOKS  FOR  THE  NATION  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an association called and known as the
“Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation Foundation”
has heretofore been formed at Colombo, for the purpose of
effectually  carrying out all objects and matters connected
with the said association, according to the rules agreed to by
its members :
AND WHEREAS the said association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Bibliomania Educational
Books for the Nation Foundation (Incorporation) Act,
No. 34 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) and such other
persons as shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as   “the Corporation”) and by that
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its will
and pleasure.
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Bibliomania
Educational
Books for the
Nation
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to undertake the publishing, printing, translation
and distribution islandwide of urgently needed
important educational books in Sinhala and Tamil
and the importation of books of international
importance ;
(b) to upgrade and improve facilities of libraries in
educational institutions ;
(c) to establish and maintain libraries, mobile libraries
and mobile “Books for the Nation” sales outlets
throughout the country ;
(d) to enable children, youth and adults in indigent
circumstance to gain access to books and other
publications required to help them to engage in
higher studies and to make available to them books
at affordable prices ;
(e) to conduct vocational and educational training
courses and research in the field of the book
publishing, translation of books into Sinhala and
Tamil languages and distribution of books in
Sri Lanka and to provide an opportunity to use the
worldwide web pages on the internet by opening
islandwide centres for such purpose ;
(f) to provide educational aids, books and magazines
to the poor and to the destitute ;
(g) to assist financially by granting scholarships or
otherwise to voluntary workers and others who are
engaged in the attainment of the objects of the
Corporation ;
(h) to work in co-operation  with other associations,
societies or organizations having objects similar to
those of the Corporation ; and
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
(i) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
leaflets, newspapers and magazines which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects.
4. Where any publication or other printed educational
matter published or introduced through electronic media for
the advancement of the objects of the Corporation under
section 3, is sought to be distributed islandwide or made
available to students, the Corporaton shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Educational Publications Department
established under the Ministry of Education.
5. (1) The administration and management  of the affairs
of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
and rules of the Corporation made under section 7, be vested
in the Executive Committee (hereinafter referred to as the
“Committee”) consisting of a President, a Secretary and two
other office bearers and such other persons as may be provided
for in such rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) In the event of any vacancy arising in the Committee
due to resignation, removal or death of any office bearer, such
vacancy shall be filled according to rules of the Corporation.
(3) The first Committee of the Corporation shall consist of
the members of the Executive Committee of the Foundation
holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to borrow or raise money for the purposes of the
Corporation ;
(b) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts ;
Prior approval to
print and
distribute
educational
material.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
(c) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purpose of the Corporation, in such manner as the
Committee may think fit ;
(d) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds ;
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
or body of persons ;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of agents, officers and servants of the Corporation
and to pay them such salaries, allowances and
gratuities as may be determined by the Corporation;
(g) to appoint sub-committees to carry out the objects
of the Corporation ; and
(h) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
or expedient for the accomplishment of the objects
of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election, resignation, vacation or removal of
office bearers ;
(c) the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers, agents and officers and servants of
the Corporation;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
(d) the procedure to be observed at, the summoning
and holding of meeting of the Corporation and any
sub-committee, the times, places, notice and agenda
of such meetings, the quorum therefore and the
conduct of business thereat ;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds ;
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule of the Corporation may be amended, altered,
added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as
a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift
testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules made under section 7, shall have full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Foundation on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this  Act.
10. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift, bequest,
testamentary disposition, transfer, contribution, donation,
subscription, fees or grants for and on account of the
Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation
in one or more banks, as the Committee shall determine.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all expenditure
incurred by the Corporation in the exercise, performance and
discharge of the powers, duties and functions under this Act.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor who shall be an associate member of the
Chartered Institute of Sri Lanka and appointed by the
Corporation for that purpose.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfactions of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other association or
associations having objects similar to the objects of the
Corporation and which is or are by the rules prohibited from
the distribution of any income or profit among its or their
members. Such association or associations shall be determined
by the members of the Corporation at or immediately before
the time of dissolution of the Corporation.
13. The land and property of the Corporation howsoever
derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend
or profits, to the members of the Corporation.
14. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount payable as membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Application of
land and
property of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liabilites of
members.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Secretary and may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Committee.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the President
and Secretary who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence, and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.
16. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body, politic or
corporate.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and  Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Bibliomania Educational Books for the Nation
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.