

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1962
Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"247 – 2021 iema;eïn¾ ui 24 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'09'24
No. 2,247  –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 24, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  ,GAzETTE,
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th october, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st october, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
,Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1959 - b 082271 - 5,403 (09/2021)
Part I : Section (IIA)(E) 
T - 07 (AU)
3rd Reading
N. B.–   Part iii of the Gazette No. 2246 of 17.09.2021 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1960
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1961
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1962
mINISTR y  Of PubLIC SER vICES, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade II of Class 2 of  
Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service - 2021
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for 
recruitment to the Posts in Grade  ii of class 2 of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service. the 
relevant application is published on the website of the department of Examinations of sri Lanka www.doenets.lk  and 
the applications can only be submitted online. once the application is submitted online, it should be downloaded and the 
printed copy of the same should be sent by registered post to reach the commissioner General of Examinations, institutional 
Examination Organization Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before the 
closing date of applications after attesting the signature of the applicant. the top left corner of the envelope c ontaining 
the application should clearly bear the words "open competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade ii of class 2 of  
sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service 2021". the closing date of applications is  
25th October 2021 this examination will be held in January 2022 in Colombo. 
Note 1 : it is compulsory to send the printed copy of the application by post and the complaints made on the loss or delay 
of application in the post will not be considered. the candidate shall bear the losses which may occur due to their delay in 
sending applications until the closing date.
02. Applicants, who satisfy the prescribed qualifications, shall be selected on merit for appointment to the posts in Grade 
ii of class 2 of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service on the results of a written examination to be 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations.
03. Number of vacancies expected to be filled is 162 Effective date of appointments shall be determined by the appointing 
authority. Further, the appointing authority reserves the right to refrain from filling any or all of the vacancies. 
04. Three percent (3%) of the number of vacancies filled by this examination will be reserved for persons with disabilities. 
only 3% of the persons with disabilities who secure highest marks in the examination and qualify will be selected for 
appointments. the minimum level of marks candidates should score to be selected for appointment is 50%. a  candidate 
selected for an appointment will be referred to a special medical board and, by a report obtained from a medical specialist 
he/she should establish the disablement and the fact that, it does not hinder performance of duties of the respective post.
05. 
Salary Scale.-  in terms of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, monthly salary scale 
entitled to Grade 2 class ii and 2 - i of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service is Rs. 36,585 - 10 x 
660 - 11 x 755 - 15 x 930 - Rs. 65,440 (mN-06-2016)
06. This post is permanent and pensionable. The officers, who are selected from this examination for the posts in  
Grade ii of class 2 of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service. are subjected to any policy decisions 
taken by the Government with regard to the pension scheme to which they are entitled, in the future.
07. Qualifications.- Following qualifications are applicable for the recruitment to the posts in Grade II of Class 2 of  
sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service.
(a). Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b). shall be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age on the closing date of applications. (accordingly, 
only the persons whose birthday fall on or before 25.10.2003 and on or after 25.10.1986 are qualified to apply for 
this examination)
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1963
(c).  shall have an excellent character.
(d). All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform the 
duties of the post.
(e). 
Educational Qualifications.- 
1. Shall have obtained a degree in Computer Science/ Information Technology from a University recognized by the 
University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as a Degree 
awarding institution.
or
2.  
(i). shall have obtained a degree with computer science/ information technology as a major subject from a 
University recognized by the University  Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University 
Grants commission as a degree awarding institution (at least 1/3 of the degree should be comprised of computer 
science/information technology)
and
(ii). shall have obtained a post graduate diploma in computer science/information technology from a University 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants 
commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
3.  
(i). Shall have obtained a degree from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution 
recognized by the University Grants Commission as a Degree Awarding Institution.
and
(ii). shall have obtained a post graduate degree in computer science / information technology from a University 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants 
commission as a degree awarding institution.
Note 2 : It is compulsory for every applicant to have satisfied all the relevant qualifications on or before the closing date 
of applications.
8.0. Scheme of the examination and syllabus. - 
8.1.  the examination will consist of three papers.  this examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English 
medium. candidates will not be allowed to change the language medium applied once it selected.
8.2.  subjects and the  marks allocated for ecah subject are mentioned below.
sUbJEcts Duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
1. information and 
communication technology
2 hours 100 40
2. aptitude 1 hour 100 40
3. General intelligence 1 hour 100 40
8.3.  
1.  Information and Communication Technology:
The paper shall consit to thoroughly measure the knowledge and ability on supervision in the fields such 
as principles on information and communication technology, computer architecture and operating  

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1964
systems / software, hardware, knowldege on information and communication technology for the productive 
implementation of the e-government concept, knowledge on system analysis, design, testing, implemetation 
and maintenance, knowledge on creating and maintaining data base, hardware, data communication and 
computer network, internet, designing websites and new internet services, e-mail, life cycle of the projects of 
information and communication technology .
2. Aptitude.-
the paper shall consist of questions to measure the ability on statistics and critical reasoning. the question 
paper shall consist of fifty (50) questions of multiple choice and short answers and all the questions should 
be answered.
3. General Intelligence.-
it is 
expected to assess the level of intelligence of the candidate in analytical skills, logical comprehension,  
interpretative ability, ability in application to other situations and arriving at conclusions, in response to 
problems presented in relation to numerical, lingual and figurative structure and inter-relations. Question 
paper shall consist of questions of multiple choice and short answers and all the questions should be answered. 
Note 3 : these question papers have been designed to test the competency and skills of the candidate for the duties of 
the service. Even though this is a competitive examination, a candidate is required to obtain at least 40% of marks allocated 
for each subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of the total marks. marks will be deducted in every answer sheet for illegible 
handwriting and spelling mistakes. Appointments shall strictly be made on the order of the marks scored in order to fill the 
number of vacancies allocated for the competitive examination.
8.4. 
 the result sheet containing the name list of applicants, who have passed the examination, equivalent to the 
number of vacancies expected to be filled, will  be issued to the Director General of Combined Services by 
the 
commissioner General of Examinations. in addition to the above, action will be taken by the department 
of Examinations to issue results personally to all the applicants or to publish the results  on the web site of the 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka - www.results.exams.gov.lk 
Interview.-
An interview for verification of qualifications will be conducted in respect of the candidates, who have secured the 
highest level of aggregate marks determined by the 
director General of combined services out of the candidates 
who have sat for all the question paper of the written examination. the date of the interview will be determined by 
the director General of combined services.
09. Penalty for furnishing false information.-
the candidates should be very careful to include the correct particulars in the application. if it is found that any
candidate is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this examination his/her candidature can be 
cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination. 
further, if it is found that any information furnished 
by a candidate is false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the Public service. 
10. Conditions of the e xamination.-
(i). t he examination will be held in the language medium of sinhala, tamil and English. candidates shall sit for
the examination in a language of their preference. a candidate should sit for all the papers of the examination 
in one and the same language. a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the 
examination, indicated in the application. Every  candidate shall appear for all three question papers.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1965
(ii). Online Examination Application should strictly be filled in  English. Once the Department of Examination 
receives both the soft copy  of the application submitted online and the printed copy of the application sent 
via registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy will be verified and the candidates will be notified 
via  sms to the mobile phone number used to access the system or via  email whether the application was 
accepted/ not accepted by the department as a valid application. before completing the online application 
you should download the common instructions sheet, and the instruction should be strictly followed. any 
alteration done after taking the print out of the application will not be considered as a valid modification. 
incomplete applications are rejected without any notice.
 Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Payments should be made only 
via  following methods of payments provided by 
the online system.
(a).  any bank credit cards,
(b). debit cards with online payment facilities,
(c).  bank of ceylon online banking method,
(d).  bank of ceylon teller slip Payment,
(e).  Postal Department Payment at any Post Office.
Note 4  : instructions on making payment through above methods are published under technical instructions relevant to 
the examination on the web site.
(iv). Receipt of payment will be notified via  an sms or e-mail. the total of the examination fees should be paid 
and the applications with payment of lesser or higher amounts shall be rejected. department of Examination 
shall not be responsible for any error occurs during the payment of examination fees via  above methods of 
payments.
(v). Under no circumstances the examination fee will be refunded or transferred to pay any other examination fee.
(vi). the signature of the applicant placed on the application and admission card should also be attested. an applicant 
who submits the application through an institution should get his/her signature attested by the Head of the 
Institution or any officer authorized by him. Other applicants should get their signature attested by a Principal 
of Government School/Retired Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, Justice of Peace, Commissioner of 
Oaths, Attorney at Law, Notary Public a commissioned officer in three armed forces, a permament staff officer 
in the Public or Provincial Public service or higher or a chief incumbent of a buddhist temple or clergy of any 
other religion who holds a considereable position.
Note 5  : Entrance to the examination hall shall not be permitted without an admission card. Every applicant should 
furnish the admission card in which his/her signature has been attested to the supervisor of the examination on the first day 
on which he/she sits for the examination. inssuance of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/
she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the examination and to hold the post.
(vii). commissioner General of Examinations will issue admissions to applicants who are within the age 
limit mentioned in the notification and have paid relevant examination fee and submitted the perfected 
application online and the printed copy of the same by post on or before the closing date of applications, on 
the assumption that only those who have satisfied qualifications mentioned in the Gazette have applied. a 
notification will be published in newspapers and on the official website of the Department of Examinations 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the department of Examinations, institutional 
Examination Organization Branch in the manner specified in the advertisement. when such inquiry is made, 
the candidate should clearly mention the name of the examination, full name of the applicant, National 
identity card number and address, in case of applicants outside colombo, it will be more effective to send a 
letter of request to the fax number mentioned in the said advertisement furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent. furthur, it would be advisable to keep the copy of the application kept in your 
possession, copy of the receipt relevant to the payment of examination fee, and the receipt of registration of 
the printed copy of the application to prove any information requested by the department of Examinations.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1966
(viii). c ommissioner General of Examinations shall reserve the right to postpone or to cancel the Examination.
(ix). a ll candidates are bound to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examination with regard to the conducting and issuing results of this examination. further, candidates 
will be subjected to the punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for violation of 
those rules and regulations. issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate has satisfied the qualifications for this post. If it is found at the interview that the applicant does not 
posses the required qualifications as per the Gazette  Notification, his or her candidature shall be cancelled. 
(x). a  candid ate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he offers. for this purpose, any of the following documents shall be accepted.
(a) National identity card,
(b) a valid Passport,
(c) Valid driving license in sri Lanka.
 candidates should enter the examination hall without covering face and ears enabling to verify the identity. 
those who refuse to verify their identity as such shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall. further, 
candidates should remain with face and ears uncovered until they leave the examination hall enabling the 
examination supervisors to cinfirm their identity.
(xi). Issuance of results.- 
Result sheet prepared on the order of the merit including the names of the candidates equal to the number of 
vacancies expected to be filled by selecting who have secured marks not less than 40% for each subject at the 
written examination and who have secured 50% or more out of the aggregate marks of the examination shall 
be submittede to the 
director General of combined services by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 the results of all the applicants who have sat for the examination shall be informed personally or published 
on the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations.
 candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
on conducting the examination and issuance of results. they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
11.  any matter not referred to herein shall be decided by the director General of combined services. all candidates
are bound to comply with the general examination rules published in this Gazette.
12. In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification shall
prevail.
s. alokabandara ,
director General of combined services,
ministry of Public services,  
Provincial councils and Local Government.
 
 
ministry of Public services, Provincial councils and Local Government,  
“independence square”,    
colombo-07,
13th september, 2021.
09 - 191

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1967
mINISTR y  Of PubLIC SER vICES, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND LOCAL GOvERNmENT
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade II of Class 2 of  
Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service - 2021
01. aPPLicatioNs are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Limited competitive Examination 
for recruitment to the posts in Grade  ii of class 2 of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service. 
the relevant application is published on the website of the department of Examinations of sri Lanka www.doenets.lk and 
the applications can only be submitted online. once the application is submitted online, it should be downloaded and the 
printed copy of the same should be sent by registered post to reach the commissioner General of Examinations, institutional 
Examination Organization Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before the 
closing date of applications after attesting the signature of the applicant. the top left corner of the envelope containing the 
application should clearly bear the words "Limited competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade ii of class 2 of sri 
Lanka information and communication t echnology service 2021". the closing date of applications is 25th October 2021 
this examination will be held in January 2022 in Colombo. 
Note 1 : it is compulsory to send the printed copy of the application by post and the complaints made on the loss or delay 
of application in the post will not be considered. the candidate shall bear the losses which occur due to their delay in sending 
applications until the closing date.
02. Officers, who stisfy prescribed qualifications, shall be selected on merit for appointmnet to the posts in Grade II of 
class 2 of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service on the results of a written examination to be 
conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations. this examination shall be held only in colombo.
03. Number of vacancies expected to be filled is 69 Effective date of appointments shall be determined by the appointing 
authority. Further, the appointing authority reserves the right to refrain from filling any or all of the vacancies. 
04. Salary Scale. -  in terms of Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, monthly salary scale 
entitled to Grade 2 - ii of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service is Rs. 36,585 - 10 x 660 - 11 x 
755 - 15 x 930 - Rs. 65,440 (mN-06-2016)
05. this post is permanent and pensionable. you shall make contributions to the Widows' and orphans'/Widowers' and 
orphans' Pension scheme.
06. Qualifications.- Following qualifications should have been satisfied to be appointed to the posts in Grade II of class 2 
of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service.
(a). Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b). shall be of an excelent character.
(c).  All the candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform the 
duties of the post.
(d). Experience .- 
i. Should be an officer in Class 3 Grade I or Grade II of Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology 
service and should not have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in terms of the provisions set out in Public 
service commission circular No. 01/2020.
or
ii. Should be a confirmed officer in appointment, who has completed an active and satisfactory period of service of 
05 years in class 3 Grade iii of sri Lanka information and communication t echnology service and should not 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1968
have been subject to a disciplinary punishment in terms of the provisions set out in Public service commission 
circular No. 01/2020.
and
iii. Shall have satisfied the educational qualifications mentioned in 6.1 of this notification.
6.1. Educational Qualifications.- 
1. Shall have obtained a degree in Computer Science/Information Technology from a University recognized by the
University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as a Degree
awarding institution.
or
2. 
(i). s hall have obtained a degree with computer science/ information technology as a major subject from a 
University recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University 
Grants commission as a degree awarding institution (at least 1/3 of the degree should be comprised of 
computer science/ information technology)
and
(ii). s hall have obtained a post graduate diploma in computer science/ information technology from a University 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the University Grants 
commission as a degree awarding institution.
or
3.  
 (i). Shall have obtained a degree from a University recognized by the University Grants Commission or an 
institution recognized by the University Grants Commission as a Degree Awarding Institution.
and
 (ii). shall have obtained a post graduate degree in computer science/ information technology from 
a University recognized by the University  Grants Commission or an institution recognized by the 
University Grants commission as a degree awarding institution.
Note 2 : It is compulsory for every applicant to have satisfied all the relevant qualifications on or before the closing date 
of applications.
07. Scheme of the examination and syllabus  :
the examination will consist of two papers. this examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English medium.
candidates will not be allowed to change the language medium applied once it is selected.
QUESTION PAPER Duration Total 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
1. aptitude 1 hour 100 40
2. case study on information and
communication technology
2 hours 100 40
01. aptitude test .- this paper shall consist of questions to test the candidate's ability on statistics and critical reasoning.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1969
The question paper shall consist of fifty (50) questions of multiple choice and short answers and all the questions should be 
answered.
02. Case study on Information and Communication Technology. -
it is expected to measure the creative thinking and the ability for solving problems of the candidates giving a case/
cases combinig one or several problems in relation to Information and Communication Technology field of the 
public service in association with the practice of Public 
service relevant to Establishmets code, Procedural Rules 
of Public service commission and financial Regulations. this paper will consist of structured and essay type 
questions. all the questions should be answered.
Note 3 : this question paper has been designed to measure competency and skills of the candidate for the duties of the 
duties of the service. Even though this is a competitive examination, a candidate is required to obtain at least 40% of marks 
allocated for each subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of the total marks. marks shall be deducted in every answer sheet for 
illegible handwriting and spelling  mistakes. appoinments shall strictly be made on the order of the marks scored in order to 
fill the number of vacancies allocated for the competitive examination.
08. Penalty for furnishing false Information  :
the candidates should be very careful to include the correct particulars in the application. if it is found that any
candidate is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this examination his/her candidature can be 
cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination. further, if it is found that any information furnished 
by a candidate is false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public service.
09. Conditions of the e xamination  :
(i). t he examination will be held in the language medium of sinhala, tamil and English. candidates shall sit for the
examination in a language of their preference. a candidate should sit for all the papers of the examination in one 
and the same language. a candid ate shall not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, 
indicated in the application. Every candidate shall appear for all two question papers. 
(ii). Online Examination Application should strictly be filled in English. Once the Department of Examination 
receives both the soft copy of the application submitted online and the printed copy of the application sent 
via  registered post, the soft copy and the printed copy will be verified and the candidates will be notified 
via  sms to the mobile phone number used to access the system or via e-mail whether the application 
was accepted/not accepted by the department as a valid application. before completing the online 
application you should download the common instructions sheet, and the instruction should be strictly 
followd. any alteration done after taking the print out of the application will not be considered as a valid 
modification. Incomplete application are rejected without any notice.
(iii). Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Payments should be made only via  following methods of payments provided by 
the online system.
(i).  a ny bank credit cards
(ii).  d ebit cards with online payment facilities
(iii).  bank of ceylon online banking method
(iv).  bank of ceylon teller slip Payment
(v).  Postal Department Payment at any Post Office.
Note 4 : instructions on making payment through above methods are published under technical instructions relevant to 
the examination on the web site.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1970
(iv). Receipt of payment will be notified via an SMS or e-mail. The total of the examination fees should be paid 
and the applications with payment of lesser or higher amounts shall be rejected. department of Examination 
shall not be responsible for any error occurs during the payment of examination fees via above methods of 
payments.
(v). Under no circumstances the examination fee will be refunded or transferred to pay any other examination fee.
(vi). the signature of the applicant placed on the application and admission card should also be attested. an 
applicant who submits the application through an institution should get his/her signature attested by the Head 
of the Institution or any officer authorized by him.
Note 5 : Entrance to the examination hall shall not be permitted without an admission card. Every applicant should 
furnish the admission card in which his/her signature has been attested to the supervisor of the examination on the first day 
on which he/she sit for the examination. inssuance of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/
she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the examination and to hold the post.
(vii). commissioner General of Examinations will issue admissions to applicants who are within the age limit 
mentioned in the notification and have paid relevant examination fee and submitted the perfected application 
online and the printed copy of the same by post on or before the closing date of applications, on the assumption 
that only those who have satisfied qualifications mentioned in the Gazette have applied. A notification will 
be published in newspapers and on the official website of the Department of Examinations as soon as the 
admission cards are issued to candidates. if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
advertisment, steps should be taken to notify the department of Examinations, institutional Examination 
Organization Branch in the manner specified in the advertisement. when such inquiry is made, the candidate 
should clearly mention the name of the examination, full name of the applicant, National identity card 
number and address, in case of applicants outside colombo, it will be more effective to send a letter of request 
to the fax number mentioned in the said advertisement furnishing a fax number to which the admission card 
should be sent. furthur, it would be advisable to keep the copy of the application kept in your possession, 
copy of the receipt relevant to the payment of examination fee, and the receipt of registation of the printed 
copy of the application to prove any information requested by the department of Examinations.
(viii). commissioner General of Examinations shall reserve the right to postpone or to cancel the Examination.
(ix). all candidates are bound to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examination with regard to the conducting and issuing results of this examination. further, candidateds 
will be subjected to the punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for violation of 
those rules and regulations. issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate has satisfied the qualifications for this post. If it is found at the interview that the applicant does not 
possess the required qualifications as per the 
Gazette  Notification, his or her candidature shall be cancelled. 
(x). a  candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he offers. for this purpose, any of the following documents shall be accepted.
 (a) National identity card
 (b) a valid Passport
 (c) Valid driving license in sri Lanka
 candidates should enter the examination hall without covering face and ears enabling to verify the identity. 
those who refuse to verify their identity as such shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall. further, 
candidates should remain with their face and ears uncovered until they leave the examination hall enabling the 
examination supervisors to cinfirm their identity.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1971
(xi).  Issuance of r esults.- Result sheet prepared on the order of the merit including the names of the candidates 
equal to the number of vacancies expected to be filled by selecting who have secured marks not less than 40% 
for each subject at the written examination and who have secured 50% or more out of the aggregate marks 
of the examination shall be submittede to the 
director General of combined services by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
 the results of all the applicants who have sat for the examination shall be informed personally or published 
on the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to sit for the examination. No travel expenses shall be paid.
Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate has satisfied the qualifications 
required for sitting the examination. candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting the examination and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
11.  any matter not referred to herein shall be decided by the director General of combined services. all candidates
are bound to comply with the general examination rules published in this Gazette .
12. In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification shall
prevail.
s. alokabandara ,
 director General of  combined services,
 ministry of Public services,  
Provincial councils and Local Government.
ministry of Public services, Provincial councils and Local Government,
“ independence square”,    
colombo-07,
13th september, 2021.
09 - 192
mINISTRy Of hEALTh
Recruitment (Open) to the Post of Research Officer in Grade II of Field/Office Based 
Officer Segment 01 Service Category (MN 06-2006 A) - 2021
aPPLicatioNs are called from the Sri Lankan citizens who possess following qualifications for recruitment (open) 
to fill 01 vacancy in the post of Research Officer in Grade II of Field/ Office Based Officer Segment 01 Service Category  
(mN 06 - 2006 a) which exist in the hospitals and institutes under the ministry of Health. 
01. method of Recruitment
From the applicants who have satisfied the qualifications mentiones in the notification, the Candidates who secure
highest marks on the results of the written examination conducted by the secretary of the ministry of Health or an
institute approved by him, will be recruited from an interview conducted to check the eligibility considering the
number of Vacancies.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1972
02. Basic Qualifications
2.1  Educational Qualifications
(i) Should have obtained a Special Degree in Chemistry or Zoology or Botany from a university recognized by
the University Grants commission and a Post-graduate degree in chemistry or Zoology or botany.
or
(ii)  should have obtained a bsc. General degree with the subjects chemistry, Zoology
and Botany from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission and a
Post-graduate degree in chemistry or Zoology or botany.
2.2  Physical Qualifications
Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties 
of the post
2.3  Other Qualifications
(a). The candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b).  t he candidate should be excellent in character
(c). The candidate should have satisfied all qualifications as at the closing date of applications
03. age Limit
applicants should be not less than 21 years of age and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of
applications.
04. salary scale
the salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 36,585 – 10x660 – 11x755x15x930 – 65,440 ( mN –06-2016 ( a) in
terms of the schedule i of Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016.
05. Written Examination
QUESTION PAPER sy LLabUs Duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
1. intelligence test this paper will be designed to assess the 
candidates' capacity for comprehension, 
quantification and perception of time space 
relations by measuring candidates, inference 
and responses to problems presented in 
verbal numerical and spatial contexts.
1 1/2 hour 100 40%
2. Knowledge related to
the subject
this paper will be based on the matters 
related to the field of poisons information.
3 hours 100 40%

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1973
06. terms of Engagement in service
(i). Recruiters shall be willing to serve in any part of the island.
(ii). t his post is pensionable. y ou shall be subject to any policy decision taken by the government in future with regard 
to the pension scheme you are entitled to. further, you shall contribute to Widows’ and orphans’/ Widowers’ 
and orphans’ Pension scheme. y ou shall pay contributions to this fund as declared by the government from time 
to time.
(iii). You should acquire the relevant proficiency in the official language in terms of the Public Administration 
circular No. 18/2020.
(iv). t his appointment will be subjected to a probation period of three years.
(v).  t he appointment will be subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public service commission, Establishments 
code of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the Government and other 
departmental orders. 
07. method of application
(i). closing date of applications is 31.11.2021. applications should be sent to reach the address director (admin)
07, ministry of Health, 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, colombo 10 by registered post 
on or before 31.10.2021 applications received after the closing date will be rejected. 
(ii). A specimen form of application is appended to this notification. Application should be prepared on a sheet of size 
A4 and No. 01 to No. 06 should appear on the first page and No. 07 to No. 10 should appear on the second page. 
the application should be completed by the candidate in his/her own handwriting.
(iii). “Application for Recruitment(Open) to the Post of Research Officer” should be indicated in the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
(iv). correspondence in this connection may proceed via  e-mail. therefore, it is required to provide an e-mail address 
which is in use and be on the alert.
(v). Examination fee is Rs. 500/-. the receipt obtained by paying this amount from any bank of ceylon branch to be 
credited to the account No.7041318 in the name of “ director General of Health services” of the thaprobane 
Branch, Bank of Ceylon should be affixed in the cage given in the application so as not to be detached. (Money 
orders and stamps will not be accepted.)  Under no circumstance, the examination fee will be refunded.
(vi). candidate's signature under the No. 09 in the application form should be attested by a Principal of a Government 
school, a Justice of the Peace, a commissioner for oaths, an attorney at Law, a Notary Public, a commissioned 
Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a 
permanent post in the Public 
service whose annual consolidated salary is more than Rs. 273,060/=.
(vii). Officers who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should forward their applications 
through the respective Head of department.
(viii). applications not in compliance with the specimen form of application appended to this, will be rejected. No 
complaint that an application or a related document has been lost or delayed in post shall be considered. Receipt 
of applications will not be acknowledged. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination and they will 
be notified thereon two weeks prior to the examination to the address indicated in the application. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1974
(candidates who have submitted applications completed in all respects will only be called for the interview.)
08. identity of candidates
any of the following documents will be accepted to prove the identity at the written examination. 
1. National identity card issued by the department for Registration of Persons
2. Valid Passport
09. Providing false information
if any information provided in the application sent by you is found to be false or incorrect before the recruitment, 
your candidature will be cancelled. if found so after the recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss from the service 
subject to relevant procedures. 
•    In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
• The decision of the Appointing Authority will be final with regard to this appointment. 
 d r . s.H. M unasinghe  , 
 secretary, 
 ministry of Health.  
ministry of Health,
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansha thero mawatha,    
colombo-10,
14th september, 2021.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1975
sPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN
r ecruitMent  (o pen ) to  the  post  of  r esearch  o fficer  in  g rade  ii of  the  M inistry  of  h ealth  – 2021
 medium of Examination   district of Residence
 (sinhala - s/ English - E/ tamil - t)
01. 1.1  Name of the applicant with initials: mr./mrs/miss   ..................................................................................................
   (in English block capitals):- Ex: siLV a a. b.
 1.2  Name in full (in English block capitals):  .................................................................................................................
 1.3  Name in full (in sinhala /t amil):  ...............................................................................................................................
   
02. 2.1  address (Private) :                                                                          2.2 address (Private) :
   (in English block capitals)                                                                   (in sinhala /t amil )
                            …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
                           …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
                           …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
                           …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
 2.3  Address (Official) :                                                                          2.4 Address (Official) :
   (in English block capitals)                                                                   (in sinhala /t amil )
                            …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
                           …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
                           …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
                           …………………………………………… ...........................................................................
   (change of the address should be informed immediately)
 2.5  t elephone No. (Personal):  .........................................................................................................................................
 2.6  Telephone No. (Official):  ...........................................................................................................................................
 2.7  E-mail address:  ..........................................................................................................................................................
03.   3.1  date of birth: date                  month                    y ear 
 
3.2  age as at  the closing date of application  y ears:…………..     months :……………..  days :…………….
04. National identity card No :…………………………….
05.  Gender :…………………………….
06.  Qualifications :…………………………….
 (Qualifications under paragraph 02 of the notification)   
 6.1  Educational Qualifications :…………………………….
 6.2 Professional Qualifications :…………………………….
 
07. details of the receipt obtained by paying the examination fee. .
 7.1  Office to which the examination fee was paid :……………………………
 7.2  Receipt No. and date :……………………………
 7.3 amount paid :……………………………

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'09'24
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.09.2021
1976
 
08.  Certification of the Applicant:
i solemnly declare that the information given herein are true and correct. i agree that if any information herein is found to 
be incorrect or false prior to the selection, my application will be rejected and if found so after the selection i am liable to be 
dismissed from service without any compensation.
date: .............................  ...........................................,
  signature of the applicant.
  
09.  attestation of the signature of the applicant.
 i certify that mr./mrs./miss.................................................. is known to me personally and that he/she placed his/her 
signature in my presence on ..../...../..............   
  ..................................................................,
  signature of the attestor.
  (Official frank)
Name in full: .....................................................................................
designation: ...........................................................................
address: .......................................................................................
 
10. Certificate of the Head of Department/ Institute (Applicable only for the officers in the Public Service or Provincial 
Public service)
this applicant mr./mrs./miss..................................................has been serving in this department/Provincial 
council/institute from .......................i hereby state that he/she/can/cannot be released from the current post if selected, and 
i certify that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.   
 ....................................................,
 signature of the Head of department/institute.
  
Name: ....................................................................................
designation: ....................................................................................   
date: ....................................................................................   
department/institute: .....................................................................................   
(Authenticate with the official frank) ....................................................................................   
09 - 204
Affix here the receipt obtained by paying the amount of Rs. 500/- to 
a bank of ceylon branch so as not to be detached.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.