

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2261$49 - 2022 ckjdß ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'01'06
No.  2261/49  -   THURSDA Y,   JANUARY   06,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notiﬁcations
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  G 35888 — 510  (01/2022)
L.D.B 3/2013 (ii)
MERCHANT SHIPPING ACT, No . 52 OF 1971
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Ports and Shipping under Section 321 of the  Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52  of  
1971 read with Section 139 of the said Act. 
 Rඈඁංඍඁൺ Aൻൾඒ඀ඎඇൺඐൺඋൽൾඇൺ,
 Minister of Ports and Shipping.  
Colombo,
29th December 2021.
Regulations
1.  (1) These regulations may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Survey s and Certificates) Regulations,                                   
No. 01 of 2021.
 (2)  The purpose of these regulations shall be to give eﬀ  ect to Chapter I of the International Convention for the                    
Safety of Life at Sea 1974, Protocol of 1988 as amended from time to time and any subsequent amendment 
made to such Protocol.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
2A
PART I
Applicability of these Regulations
2.  (1) Subject to the provisions of sub regulations (2) and (3) of this regulation, these regulations shall apply to 
the ships which are entitled to ﬂ y the Sri Lanka ﬂ ag and engaged in international voyages, and to any other 
foreign ships which are in Sri Lankan waters.
 (2)  Except as expressly provided otherwise in the Internation al Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974 
and Protocol 1988 (in these regulations referred to as the “Con vention”), these regulations shall not apply 
to:
 ( a) ships of war and troopships;
 ( b) cargo ships of less than 500 gross tonnage;
 ( c) ships not propelled by mechanical means;
 ( d) wooden ships of primitive build;
 ( e) pleasure yachts not engaged in trade; and 
 ( f) ﬁ shing vessels.
 (3)  Except as expressly provided in Chapter V of the Conventi on, the provisions of these regulations shall not 
apply to Sri Lankan ships solely navigating the Great Lakes of North America and the River St. Lawrence 
as far east as a straight line drawn from Cape des Rosiers to W est Point, Anticosti Island and, on the north 
side of Anticosti Island, the 63rd meridian.
3.  (1)  A ship which is not normally engaged in international voyages but which, in exceptional circumstances, is 
required to undertake a single international voyage may be exem pted by the Director-General of Merchant 
Shipping (in these regulations referred to as the “Director-Gen eral”) from any of the requirements of the 
Convention:
  Provided that such ship shall comply with safety requirements  which are adequate in the opinion of the 
Director-General for the voyage which is to be undertaken by the ship.
(2) (a) The Director-General may exempt any ship which embodies featu res of a novel kind from any of the 
provisions of Chapters II-1, II-2, III and IV of the Convention  for research, and incorporation of such 
features in ships:
  Provided however, such ships shall comply with safety require ments which, in the opinion of the Director-
General are adequate for the service for which it is intended and to ensure the overall safety of the ship and 
which are acceptable to the Governments of the States to be visited by the ship.
 ( b)  The Director-General who exempts the ship under this regulation shall communicate to the International 
Maritime Organization (in these regulations referred to as the “Organization”) particulars of same and 
the reasons therefor.
PART II
Surveys and Certiﬁ cates 
4. The inspection and survey of ships, so far as regards the enfor cement of the provisions of the Convention shall 
be carried out by the Director-General with the support of the oﬃ  cers. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
3A
5. (1) The Director-General may for the purpose of regulation (4) recognize any organization (in these regulations 
referred to as the “recognized organization”) in accordance with the provisions of the Code for Recognized 
Organizations adopted by the Organization and such recognized organization shall have the minimum power 
to attend to repairs to a ship and carry out inspections and surveys.
 (2)  The Director-General shall notify the Organization of the  speciﬁ c responsibilities and conditions of the 
authority delegated to recognized organizations. 
6.  (1)  When a recognized organization determines that the condition of the ship or its equipment does not correspond 
substantially with the particulars of the certiﬁ cate or is such that the ship is not ﬁ t to proceed to sea without 
danger to the ship or persons on board, such organization shall immediately ensure that corrective action is 
taken and shall in due course notify the Director-General. 
 (2)  If such corrective action is not taken the relevant certi ﬁ cate shall be withdrawn and the Director-General 
shall be notiﬁ ed immediately and if the ship is in the port of another Party, the appropriate authorities of the 
Port State shall also be notiﬁ ed immediately. 
 (3)  As such when the Director-General is informed regarding a  foreign vessel that is in Sri Lanka waters, the 
Director-General shall ensure that the ship does not sail until  it can proceed to sea, or leave port for the 
purpose of proceeding to the appropriate repair yard, without danger to the ship or persons on board.
7. (1)  A Passenger ship shall be subject to the inspections and surveys mentioned below-
 ( a)  an initial survey before the ship is put in service;
 ( b)  a renewal survey once every twelve months, except where regulation 14(b), (e), (f) and (g) of Chapter 
1 of the Convention is applicable; and 
 ( c)  additional surveys as the occasion arises.
 (2)  The surveys referred to above shall be carried out as speciﬁ ed in regulation 7 (b) of Chapter 1 of the Convention.
8.  (1)  A cargo ship of ﬁ ve hundred gross tons or more shall be subject to the followin g surveys of its life-saving 
appliances and other equipment speciﬁ ed below-
 ( a)  before the ship is put in service, a cargo ship safety equipment initial survey;
 ( b)  once in every ﬁ ve years except where regulation 14 (b), (e), (f) and (g) of Chapter 1 of the Convention 
is applicable;
 ( c)  within three months before or after the second or third anniversary date of a Cargo Ship Safety Equipment 
Certiﬁ cate, a cargo ship safety equipment periodical survey; 
 ( d)  within three months before or after each anniversary date of  the ship’s Cargo Safety Equipment 
Certiﬁ cate, other than where a periodical survey is required to be c arried out within that period, an 
annual survey; and
 ( e)  an additional survey as may be provided for passenger ships in regulation  7(b)(iii) of Chapter I of the 
Convention.
 (2)  The surveys referred to in paragraphs(a), (b), (c), (d) a nd (e)of sub regulation (1) shall be carried out as 
speciﬁ ed in regulation 8 (b) of Chapter 1 of the Convention.
 (3)  The periodical and annual surveys referred to in paragrap hs (c) and (d) of regulation 8(1) shall be endorsed 
on the Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certiﬁ cate.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
4A
9.  (1)  A cargo ship to which Chapters III and IV of the Convention apply shall be subject to the following surveys 
of its radio installations, including those used in life-saving appliances-
 ( a)  before the ship is put in service, a cargo ship radio installations initial survey;
 ( b)  once in every ﬁ ve years a cargo ship safety equipment renewal survey except where regulation 14 (b), 
(e), (f) and (g) of Chapter 1 of the Convention is applicable;
 ( c)  within three months before or after each anniversary date of  the ship’s Cargo Ship Safety Radio 
Certiﬁ cate, a cargo ship radio installations periodical survey; and
 ( d)  an additional survey as may be provided for passenger ships in regulation  7(b)(iii) of Chapter I of the 
Convention.
 (2)  The surveys referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and ( d) of sub regulation (1)  shall be carried out as speciﬁ ed 
in regulation 9 (b) of Chapter 1 of the Convention.
 (3)  The periodical surveys referred to in paragraph (c) of re gulation 9(1) shall be endorsed on the Cargo Ship 
Safety Radio Certiﬁ cate.
10.  (1)  A cargo ship of ﬁ ve hundred gross tons or more shall be subject to the following surveys and inspections of 
its structure, machinery and equipment, other than equipment to which regulations 8 and 9 apply-
 ( a)  before the ship is put in service, an initial survey including an inspection of the outside of the ship’s 
bottom;
 ( b)  once in every ﬁ ve years a cargo ship safety construction renewal survey excep t where regulation 14 
(b), (e), (f) and (g) of Chapter 1 of the Convention is applicable;
 ( c)  within three months before or after the second or third anni versary date of a Cargo Ship Safety 
Construction Certiﬁ cate, which shall take place of one of the annual surveys spec iﬁ ed in paragraph 
(d), a cargo ship construction intermediate survey;
 ( d)  within three months before or after each anniversary date of the ship’s Cargo Ship Safety Construction 
Certiﬁ cate, other than where a cargo ship construction renewal or in termediate survey is required to 
be carried out within that period, a cargo ship construction annual survey; 
 ( e)  a minimum of two inspections of the outside of the ship’s bottom to take place out of the water during 
any ﬁ ve-year period, except where regulation 14 (5) or (6) is appli cable. Where regulation 14 (5) or 
(6) is applicable, this ﬁ ve-year period may be extended to coincide with the extended period of validity 
of the certiﬁ cate. In all cases the interval between any two such inspections shall not exceed thirty-six 
months; and 
 ( f)  an additional survey as may be provided for passenger ships in regulation  7(b)(iii) of Chapter I of the 
Convention.
 (2)  The surveys and inspections referred to in paragraph (a),  (b), (c), (d) and (e) of sub regulation (1) shall be 
carried out as speciﬁ ed in regulation10(b) of Chapter 1 of the Convention.
 (3)  The intermediate and annual surveys and inspections of th e outside of the ship referred to in paragraphs (c), 
(d) and (e) of sub regulation (1) shall be endorsed on the Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certiﬁ cate.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
5A
11.  (1)  The owner and master of every ship to which this regulation applies shall ensure that–
 ( a)  the condition of the ship and its equipment is maintained so as to ensure that the ship in all respects 
remains ﬁ t to proceed to sea without danger to the ship or persons on board;
 ( b)  after any survey of the ship required by these regulations has been completed, no change shall be made 
in the structural arrangements, machinery, equipment and other items covered by the survey, without 
the approval of the Director-General;
 ( c)  whenever an accident occurs to a ship or a defect is discovered, either of which aﬀ ects the safety of 
the ship or the eﬃ  ciency or completeness of its life-saving appliances or other equipment-
 (i)  it is reported at the earliest opportunity to the Directo r-General, or a recognized organization; and
 (ii)  if a Sri Lankan ship is in such a case in a port outside Sri Lanka, it is also reported to the appropriate 
authorities of that country in which such port is situated.
12. (1)  A certiﬁ cate called a Passenger Ship Safety Certiﬁ cate shall be issued after an initial or renewal survey, to 
a passenger ship which complies with the relevant requirements of Chapters II-1, II-2, III, IV and V of the 
Convention and any other relevant requirements of the Convention.
 (2)   A certiﬁ  cate called a Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certiﬁ cate shall be issued after an initial or renewal 
survey to a cargo ship which complies with the relevant require ments of Chapters II-1 and II-2 (other than 
those relating to ﬁ re safety systems and appliances and ﬁ re control plans) of the Convention and any other 
relevant requirements of the Convention.
 (3)  A certiﬁ  cate called a Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certiﬁ  cate shall be issued after an initial or renewal 
survey to a cargo ship which complies with the relevant requirements of Chapters II-1, II-2, III, IV and V of 
the Convention and any other relevant requirements of the Convention.
 (4)  A certiﬁ  cate called a Cargo Ship Radio Certiﬁ cate shall be issued after an initial or renewal survey to a cargo 
ship which complies with the relevant requirements of Chapter IV of the Convention and any other relevant 
requirements of the Convention.
 (5)  ( a) A certiﬁ cate called a Cargo Ship Safety Certiﬁ cate may be issued after an initial or renewal survey to a 
cargo ship which complies with the relevant requirements of Chapters II-1, II-2, III, IV and V of the Convention 
and any other relevant requirements of the Convention, as an alternative to the certiﬁ cates referred to in sub 
regulations (2), (3) and (4).
 ( b)  Wherever in these regulations reference are made to a Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certiﬁ cate, Cargo Ship 
Safety Equipment Certiﬁ cate or Cargo Ship Safety Radio Certiﬁ cate, it shall apply to a Cargo Ship Safety 
Certiﬁ cate, if it is used as an alternative to these certiﬁ cates.
 (6)  The Passenger Ship Safety Certiﬁ  cate, the Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certiﬁ cate, the Cargo Ship Safety 
Radio Certiﬁ cate and the Cargo Ship Safety Certiﬁ cate, referred to in this regulation shall be supplemented 
by a Record of Equipment.
 (7) ( a) When an exemption is granted to a ship under and in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, a 
certiﬁ cate called an Exemption Certiﬁ cate shall be issued in addition to the Certiﬁ cates issued under this 
regulation. The period of validity of an Exemption Certiﬁ cate shall not be longer than the period of validity 
of the certiﬁ cate to which it refers and shall be subject to the same extension and other provisions as the 
certiﬁ cate to which it refers. The granting of exemptions shall be carried out by the Director-General.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
6A
  ( b)  The Director General may, after giving reasonable notice, alter or cancel any exemption granted under 
sub regulation (a).
 (8)  The certiﬁ  cates referred to in this regulation except the Exemption Certiﬁ cate referred to in sub regulation 
(7) shall be issued or endorsed by either the Director-General or recognized organization in every case the 
Director-General assumes full responsibility for certiﬁ cates.  
13. (1) The Director-General may, at the request of a government of a country to which the Convention applies, survey 
a ship registered in that country and, if satisﬁ ed that the requirements of the Convention are complied with, 
the Director-General shall issue to the ship, certiﬁ cates referred to in regulation 12, and, where appropriate, 
endorse such certiﬁ cates in accordance with the requirements of the Convention. Any certiﬁ cate so issued shall 
contain a statement to the eﬀ ect that it has been issued at the request of the Government of the State whose 
ﬂ ag the ship is or will be entitled to ﬂ y and it shall have the same force and receive the same recognition as 
a certiﬁ cate issued under regulation 12.
 (2)  The Director-General may request the Government of a coun try to which the Convention applies to survey 
a Sri Lankan ship and, if satisﬁ  ed that the requirements of the Convention are complied with, to issue 
certiﬁ cates to the ship in accordance with the Convention. Any certiﬁ cate so issued shall contain a statement 
to the eﬀ ect that it has been issued at the request of the Government of Sri Lanka and it shall have the same 
force and receive the same recognition as a certiﬁ cate issued by the Director-General.
14. (1) A Passenger Ship Safety Certiﬁ cate shall be issued for a period not exceeding twelve months. A Cargo Ship 
Safety Construction Certiﬁ cate, Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certiﬁ  cate and Cargo Ship Safety Radio 
Certiﬁ cate shall be issued for a period of ﬁ ve years. 
 (2) ( a) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (1), when the renewal survey is completed within three 
months before the expiry date of the existing certiﬁ cate, the new certiﬁ cate shall be valid from the date 
of completion of the renewal survey -
 (i)  for a passenger ship, to a date not exceeding twelve mont hs from the date of expiry of the existing 
certiﬁ cate;
 (ii)  for a cargo ship, to a date not exceeding ﬁ  ve years from the date of expiry of the existing certiﬁ cate.
 ( b)  When the renewal survey is completed after the expiry date of the existing certiﬁ cate, the new certiﬁ cate 
shall be valid from the date of completion of the renewal survey -
 (i)  for a passenger ship, to a date not exceeding twelve mont hs from the date of expiry of the existing 
certiﬁ cate;
 (ii)  for a cargo ship, to a date not exceeding ﬁ  ve years from the date of expiry of the existing certiﬁ cate.
 ( c)  When the renewal survey is completed more than three months before the expiry date of the existing 
certiﬁ cate, the new certiﬁ cate shall be valid from the date of completion of the renewal survey -
 (i)  for a passenger ship, to a date not exceeding twelve months from the date of completion of the renewal 
survey;
 (ii)  for a cargo ship, to a date not exceeding ﬁ  ve years from the date of completion of the renewal survey.
 (3)  If a certiﬁ  cate other than a Passenger Ship Safety Certiﬁ cate is issued for a period of less than ﬁ ve years, the 
Director-General may extend the validity of the certiﬁ cate beyond the expiry date to the maximum period 
speciﬁ ed in sub regulation (1), provided that the surveys referred t o in regulations 8,9 and 10 applicable 
when a certiﬁ cate is issued for a period of ﬁ ve years, are carried out as appropriate. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
7A
 (4)  If a renewal survey has been completed and a new certiﬁ  cate cannot be issued or placed on board the ship 
before the expiry date of the existing certiﬁ  cate, the recognized organization may endorse the existing 
certiﬁ cate and such a certiﬁ cate shall be accepted as valid for a further period which sha ll not exceed ﬁ ve 
months from the expiry date.
 (5)  If a ship at the time when a certiﬁ  cate expires is not in a port in which it is to be surveyed, t he Director-
General may extend the period of validity of the certiﬁ cate but this extension shall be granted only for the 
purpose of allowing the ship to complete its voyage to the port in which it is to be surveyed, and then only 
in cases where it appears proper and reasonable to do so. 
 (6)  No certiﬁ  cate shall be extended for a period longer than three months, and a ship to which an extension is 
granted shall not, on its arrival in the port in which it is to be surveyed, be entitled by virtue of such extension 
to leave that port without having a new certiﬁ cate. When the renewal survey is completed, the new certiﬁ cate 
shall be valid -
 ( a)  for a passenger ship, to a date not exceeding twelve months from the date of expiry of the existing 
certiﬁ cate before the extension was granted;
 ( b)  for a cargo ship, to a date not exceeding ﬁ ve years from the date of expiry of the existing certiﬁ cate 
before the extension was granted.
 (7)  A certiﬁ  cate issued to a ship engaged on short voyages which has not b een extended under the foregoing 
provisions of this regulation may be extended by the Director-G eneral for a period of grace of up to one 
month from the date of expiry stated on it. When the renewal survey is completed, the new certiﬁ cate shall 
be valid -
 ( a)  for a passenger ship, to a date not exceeding twelve months from the date of expiry of the existing 
certiﬁ cate before the extension was granted;
 ( b)  for a cargo ship, to a date not exceeding ﬁ ve years from the date of expiry of the existing certiﬁ cate 
before the extension was granted.
 (8)  In special circumstances, as determined by the Director-G eneral, a new certiﬁ cate may not be dated from 
the date of expiry of the existing certiﬁ cate as required by paragraph (b) of sub regulation (2), sub regulation 
(5) or (6). In these special circumstances, the new certiﬁ cate shall be valid -
 ( a)  for a passenger ship, to a date not exceeding twelve months from the date of completion of the renewal 
survey;
 ( b)  for a cargo ship, to a date not exceeding ﬁ ve years from the date of completion of the renewal survey.
 (9)  If an annual, intermediate or periodical survey is comple ted before the period speciﬁ ed in these regulations 
then-
 ( a)  the anniversary date shown on the relevant certiﬁ cate shall be amended by endorsement to a date which 
shall not be more than three months later than the date on which the survey was completed;
 ( b)  the subsequent annual, intermediate or periodical survey required shall be completed at the intervals 
prescribed by these regulations using the new anniversary date; and
 ( c)  the expiry date may remain unchanged provided one or more annual, intermediate or periodical surveys, 
as appropriate, are carried out so that the maximum intervals between the surveys prescribed by these 
regulations are not exceeded.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
8A
 (10)  A certiﬁ  cate issued under regulation 12 or 13 shall cease to be valid in any of the following cases-
 ( a)  if the relevant surveys and inspections are not completed within the periods speciﬁ ed under regulations 
7 (1), 8 (1), 9 (1) and 10 (1);
 ( b)  if the certiﬁ cate is not endorsed in accordance with the Convention; or 
 ( c)  upon transfer of the ship to the ﬂ ag of another State. 
 (11) Where a certiﬁ  cate ceases to be valid under sub regulation (9), a new certiﬁ cate shall only be issued when 
the Director-General is fully satisﬁ ed that the ship is in compliance with the requirement of paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of regulation 11(1). In the case of a transfer of any S ri Lankan Ship to another State to which the 
Convention applies, if requested within three months after the transfer has taken place, the Director-General 
shall as soon as possible transmit to the administration of that State, copies of the certiﬁ cates carried by the 
ship before the transfer and, if available copies of the relevant survey reports.
 (12)  The Director General may cancel a certiﬁ  cate issued to a Sri Lankan ship where there is reason to beli eve 
that- 
 ( a) the certiﬁ cate was issued on false or erroneous information;
 ( b) the structure, equipment or machinery of the ship has sustain ed damage or is otherwise deﬁ cient. 
 (13)  The Director General may require that a certiﬁ  cate issued to a Sri Lankan ship which has expired or has 
been cancelled shall be surrendered. 
 (14)  No person shall- 
 ( a) intentionally alter a certiﬁ cate referred to in these regulations;
 ( b)  intentionally make a false certiﬁ cate as a certiﬁ cate referred to in these regulations;
 ( c)  in connection with any survey required by these regulations,  knowingly or recklessly furnish false 
information;
 ( d)  with intent to deceive, use, lend, or allow to be used by an other, a certiﬁ cate referred to in these 
regulations; or 
 ( e)  fail to surrender a certiﬁ cate required to be surrendered under sub regulation (13).
15.  The certiﬁ cates and records of equipment shall be drawn up in the form corresponding to the models given in 
the Appendix to the Annex to the Convention.
16.  The owner and master of every ship issued with Convention Cer tiﬁ cates shall ensure that they are readily 
available on board for examination at all times.
17. The certiﬁ cates issued under the authority of a Government of a country to which the Convention applies shall 
be accepted by the Director-General for all purposes covered by the Convention. They shall be regarded by the 
Director-General as having the same force as certiﬁ cates issued by them.
18. (1) If in the course of a particular voyage a Sri Lankan ship has on board a number of persons less than the 
total number stated in the Passenger Ship Safety Certiﬁ cate and is in consequence, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Convention, free to carry a smaller number of lifeboats and other life-saving appliances than 
that stated in the certiﬁ cate, an Annex may be issued by the Director-General or  recognized organization.
 (2)  The Annex issued under sub regulation (1) shall state tha t there is no infringement of the provisions of the 
Convention. It shall be annexed to the Certiﬁ cate. It shall be valid only for the particular voyage for which 
it is issued.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
9A
19. (1) A foreign ship in a port of Sri Lanka is subject to control by oﬃ  cers duly authorized by the Director-General 
in so far as this control is directed towards verifying that th e certiﬁ cates issued under regulation 12 or 
regulation 13 are valid.
 (2)  Such certiﬁ  cates, if valid, shall be accepted unless there are clear grounds for believing that the condition of 
the ship or of its equipment does not correspond substantially with the particulars of any of the certiﬁ cates 
or that the ship and its equipment are not in compliance with t he provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 11.
 (3)  In the circumstances given in sub regulation (2) of this regulation or where a certiﬁ cate has expired or ceased 
to be valid, the oﬃ  cer carrying out the control shall take steps to ensure that the ship does not sail until it 
can proceed to sea or leave the port for the purpose of proceed ing to the appropriate repair yard without 
danger to the ship or persons on board.
 (4)  When exercising control under this regulation all possibl e eﬀ orts shall be made to avoid a ship being unduly 
detained or delayed. If a ship is thereby unduly detained or delayed it shall be entitled to compensation for 
any loss or damage suﬀ ered.
 (5)  In the event of this control giving rise to an interventi on of any kind, the oﬃ  cer carrying out the control shall 
forthwith inform, in writing, the Consul or, in his absence, the nearest diplomatic representative of the State 
whose ﬂ ag the ship is entitled to ﬂ y, of all the circumstances in which intervention was deemed necessary. 
In addition, nominated surveyors or recognized organizations re sponsible for the issue of the certiﬁ cates 
shall also be notiﬁ ed. The facts concerning the intervention shall be reported to the Organization.
 (6)  The Director General shall notify all relevant informatio n about the ship to the authorities of the next port 
of call, in addition to the Parties mentioned in sub regulation  (5), if he is unable to act as speciﬁ ed in sub 
regulation (3) and (5) or if the ship has been allowed to the next port of call.   
 (7)  The procedures relating to the Port State Control speciﬁ ed in regulation 4 of the Chapter XI-I of the Convention 
shall apply to this regulation. 
20.  The privileges of the Convention may not be claimed in favour  of any ship unless it holds appropriate valid 
certiﬁ cates.
PART III
Casualties and Miscellaneous Provisions 
21.  (1)  The Director-General shall undertake to conduct an inves tigation of any casualty occurring to any of its 
ships subject to the provisions of the regulation 6 of Chapter XI-I of the Convention.
 (2)  The Director-General shall undertake to supply the Organi zation with pertinent information concerning 
the ﬁ nding of such investigations. No reports or recommendations of  the Organization based upon such 
information shall disclose the identity or nationality of the s hips concerned or in any manner ﬁ x or imply 
responsibility upon any ship or person.
22. Where the Convention requires that a particular ﬁ tting, material, appliance or apparatus, or type thereof shall be 
ﬁ tted or carried in a ship, or that any particular provision sh all be made, the Director-General may allow any 
other ﬁ tting, material, appliance or apparatus, or type thereof, to be ﬁ tted or carried, or any other provision to be 
made in that ship, if he is satisﬁ ed by trial thereof or otherwise that such ﬁ tting, material, appliance or apparatus, 
or type thereof, or provision is at least as eﬀ ective as that required by the Convention.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I : Sൾർ. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
10A
23. Where any ship, being in any port or place in Sri Lanka, is fou nd to be an unsafe ship, and is, by reason of the 
defective condition of such ship’s hull, equipment, or machiner y, under manning, overloading or improper 
loading or any other condition that is not consistent with the Convention, unﬁ t to proceed to sea without serious 
damage to human life having regard to the nature of the service for which such ship is intended, such ship may 
be provisionally detained for the purpose of being surveyed or rectifying the defective condition.
24.  The footnotes in Chapter I of the Convention and the resolution s, circulars or documents referred to by such 
footnotes shall be deemed to be a part of these regulations.
25. The Director-General may, with the concurrence of the Minister issue such implementing standards for the 
compliance with the minimum technical standards of the provisio ns of the Convention and Protocol 1988 as 
may be required for the implementation of the provisions of these regulations.
26. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations commits an oﬀ ence and on conviction thereof 
shall be liable to a ﬁ ne not exceeding one million rupees.
27. In these regulations-
“anniversary date” means the day and the month of each year which will correspond to the date of expiry of the 
relevant certiﬁ cate;
“cargo ship” means any ship which is not a passenger ship;
“passenger ship” means a ship which carries more than twelve passengers. 
EOG 01-0241
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.