

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 10.75 Postage  :  Rs. 7.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August  12, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 8th August, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OF
TERRORIST FINANCING
ACT,  No.  25  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

1Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
[Certified on 8th August, 2005]
L.D.—O. 43/2000.
A
N  ACT  TO  GIVE  EFFECT  TO  THE  CONVENTION  ON  THE  SUPPRESSION  OF
TERRORIST  FINANCING  ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
WHEREAS an International Convention on the Suppression
of Terrorist Financing (hereinafter referred to as “the
Convention”) was adopted by the General Assembly of the
United Nations on the Ninth day of December, Nineteen
Ninety-Nine and opened for signature on the Tenth day of
January Two Thousand :
AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka became a
signatory to the aforesaid Convention on the Tenth day of
January Two Thousand and ratified the same on the Eighth
day of September Two Thousand :
AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Convention entered into force
in respect of Sri Lanka on the Tenth day of April Two
Thousand and Two :
AND WHEREAS it is necessary for the Government of Sri
Lanka to make legislative provision to give effect to Sri
Lanka's obligations  under the aforesaid Convention :
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Convention on the
Suppression of Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25  of 2005.
2. The Minister may, from time to time, by Order
published in the Gazette certify the States which are parties
to the Convention. A State in respect of which an Order is
made under this section is hereinafter referred to as a
“Convention State”.
Preamble.
Short title.
Convention
States.
2—PL 000369–5,650 (06/2005)

<!-- page 3 -->

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
2
3. (1) Any person who, by any means, directly or
indirectly, unlawfully and wilfully provides or collects funds,
with the intention that such funds should be used, or in the
knowledge that they are to be used or having reason to
believe that they are likely to be used, in full or in part, in
order to commit,—
(a) an act which constitutes an offence within the scope
of, or within the definition of any one of the Treaties
specified in Schedule I hereto ;
(b) any other act, intended to cause death or serious
bodily injury, to civilians or to any other person
not taking an active part in the hostilities, in a
situation of armed conflict, and the purpose of such
act, by its nature or context is to intimidate a
population or to compel a government or an
international organization, to do or to abstain from
doing any act,
shall be guilty of the offence of financing of terrorists or
terrorist organizations :
Provided that, for an act to constitute the offence set out
above, it shall not be necessary to show that the funds
collected were actually used in the commission of an offence.
(2) Any person who—
(a) attempts to commit ;
(b) aids or abets the commission of ; or
(c) acting with a common purpose with another person
or a group of persons, contributes to the commission
of,
the offence of financing of terrorists or terrorist organizations,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
In this subsection “abet” has the same meaning as in sections
100 and 101 of the Penal Code.
Offences.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
(3) Where an offence  specified in subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of this section is committed by a body of
persons, then, every member, Director, Manager, Secretary,
officer or servant of such body of persons shall be guilty of
such offence, unless it can be proved that the offence was
committed without their knowledge or that they exercised
all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.
(4) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or
subsetion (2) of this section, shall on conviction after trial on
indictment by the High Court, be punished with imprisonment
for a term not less than fifteen years and not exceeding twenty
years, and also be liabe to a fine.
4. (1) On indictment of any person in the High Court, for
an offence under this Act, all funds collected in contravention
of the provisions of section 3, shall, with effect from the date
of filing of such indictment-
(a) if such funds are lying in an account with any Bank,
be subject to an order of freezing ; or
(b) if such funds are in the possession or control of any
person be liable to seizure ;
(2) The freezing or seizure of funds in terms of subsection
(1) shall be in force until the conclusion of the trial.
(3) On the filing of indictment, the Attorney-General shall
notify the Central Bank of the freezing or seizure as the case
may be.
(4) The Central Bank shall thereupon take steps to give
adequate publicity to the order of freezing or seizure as the
case may be, as it shall think fit.
5. (1) On the conviction of any person under subsection
(4) of section 3, the Court may Order that any funds collected
in pursuance of subsection (1) of section 3 shall be forfeited
to the State.
Freezing and
seizure.
Forfeiture.

<!-- page 5 -->

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
4
(2) Any funds forfeited to the State under subsection (1),
shall vest absolutely in the State. Such vesting shall take
effect—
(a) where no appeal is preferred to the Court of Appeal
against the Order of forfeiture, on the expiration of
the period within which an appeal may be preferred
to the Court of Appeal against such Order of
forfeiture ;
(b) where an appeal had been preferred to the Court of
Appeal against such Order of forfeiture, and no
appeal is preferred to the Supreme Court against
the Order of the Court of Appeal affirming or
upholding such Order of forfeiture, on the
expiration of the period within which an Appeal
may be preferred to the Supreme Court from such
Order of the Court of Appeal;
(c) where an appeal had been preferred, to the Court of
Appeal against such Order of forfeiture, and  an
appeal has been preferred to the Supreme Court from
the determination of the Court of Appeal on the
first mentioned appeal, upon the determination of
the Supreme Court affirming or upholding the Order
of forfeiture.
(3) Where the Court is satisfied on the evidence adduced
at a trial for an offence under subsection (1) of section 3, that
any funds standing to the credit of any account in any bank,
are the proceeds of such offence, it may, by written order
prohibit the Manager of such bank from permitting or
allowing the withdrawal of any funds from the account, until
the conclusion of the trial.
6. (1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colombo or
the High Court established under Article 154P of the
Constitution for the Western Province, holden in Colombo,
shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
law, have exclusive jurisdiction to try offences under this Act.
High Court to try
offences under
this Act.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act is
committed outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to in
subsection (1) shall have jurisdiction to try such offence as if
it were committed within Sri Lanka, if—
(a) the person who committed such act is present in Sri
Lanka ;
(b) such act is committed by a citizen of Sri Lanka, or
by a national of another State which is a party to the
Convention, or by a stateless person who has his
habitual residence in Sri Lanka ;
(c) such act is committed against, or on board,  a ship or
aircraft registered in Sri Lanka at the time of the
commission of the offence ;
(d) such act is committed against, or on board a ship or
aircraft registered under the  laws of another State
which is a party to the Convention, at the time of the
commission of the offence ;
(e) the person in relation to whom the offence is alleged
to have been committed is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(f) such act is committed in order to compel the
Government of Sri  Lanka, to do, or abstain from
doing, any act ;
(g) such act is committed against a State or a government
facility of that State situated in another  country,
including any diplomatic or consular premises of
such State ; or
(h) such act is committed against any property owned,
leased or used by the Government of Sri Lanka
including an embassy or other diplomatic or
consular premises of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 7 -->

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
6
Minister to notify
requesting State,
of measures
taken against
persons for
whose
extradition
request is made.
Rights of certain
persons arrested
for offences
under this Act.
7. Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka is
arrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall be
entitled—
(a) to communicate without delay, with the nearest
appropriate representative of the State of which he
is a national or which is otherwise entitled to protect
his rights, or if he is a stateless person, with the
nearest  appropriate representative of the State in
the territory of which he was habitualy resident ;
and
(b) to be visited by a representative of that State ; and
(c) be informed of his rights under paragraphs (a) and
(b).
8. Where a request is made to the Government of Sri
Lanka, by or on behalf of the Government of a Convention
State for the extradition of any person accused or convicted
of an offence under section 3 or of an offence specified in
Schedule II to this Act, the Minister shall on behalf of the
Government of Sri Lanka, forthwith  notify the Government
of the requesting State of the measures which the  Government
of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, for the  prosecution
or extradition of that person for that offence.
9. (1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in
Criminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it is
necessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offence
under section 3 or of an offence specified in Schedule II to
this Act, be applicable in respect of the providing of assistance
as between the Government of Sri Lanka and other States
who are either Commonwealth countries specified by the
Minister by Order under section 2 of the aforesaid Act or non-
Commonwealth countries with which the Government of Sri
Lanka has entered into an agreement in terms of the aforesaid
Act.
Assistance to
Convention
States &c.,

<!-- page 8 -->

7Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
Existing
extradition
arrangements
with Convention
States deemed to
provide for
offences in
Schedule II.
Minister may
treat
Convention as
an extradition
arrangement
between Sri
Lanka and
certain
Convention
States, in
respect of
offences in
Schedule II.
(2) In the case of a country which is neither a
Commonwealth country specified by the Minister by Order
under section 2 of the aforesaid Act nor a non-Commonwealth
country with which the Government of Sri Lanka has entered
into an agreement in terms of the  aforesaid Act, then it shall
be the duty of the Government to afford all such assistance
to, and may through the Minister request all such assistance
from, a Convention state, as may be necessry for the
investigation and prosecution of an offence under section 3
or of an offence specified in Schedule II of this Act to the
extent required for the discharge of its obligations under the
United Nations Convention (including assistance relating
to the taking of evidence and statements, the serving of
process and the conduct of searches).
(3) The grant of assistance to a Convention state may be
made subject to such terms and conditions as the Minister
thinks fit.
10. Where there is an extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Converntion State, in
force on the date on which this Act comes into operation,
such arrangement shall be deemed for the purposes for the
Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision for
extradition in respect of the offences specified in Schedule II
to this Act.
11. Where there is  no extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State, the
Minister may by Order published in the Gazette, treat the
Convention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8
of 1977 as an extradition arrangement, made by the
Government of Sri Lanka with the Convention State
providing for extradition in respect of the offences specified
in Schedule II to this Act.

<!-- page 9 -->

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
8
12. The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately before Part B of the
Schedule to that Law, of the following item :—
“(46) An offence within the scope of the Convention on
the Suppression of Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25
of 2005.”.
13. Notwithstanding anything in the Extradition Law,
No. 8 of 1977, an offence specified in the Schedule to that
Law and in Schedule II to this Act, shall for the purposes of
that law be deemed not to be an offence of a political character
or an offence connected with a political offence or an offence
inspired by political motives, for the purposes only of the
extradition of any person accused or convicted of any such
offence, as between the Government of Sri Lanka and any
Convention State, or of affording assistance to a Convention
State under section 9.
14. For the furtherance of international co-operation in
the prevention of the offences specified in section 3, the
Minister in charge of the subject of Foreign Affairs may, in
consultation with the Minister to whom the subject of money
laundering is assigned, make such regulations, issue such
directions or take such action as is provided for by any other
written law for the time being in force for the purpose of
preventing and combating  the commission of an offence
under this Act or the offence of money laundering.
15. The Minister may from time to time issue such
general or special directions as are necessary for the
implementation of the principles and provisions of the
Convention to such extent as they are embodied in this
Act.
16. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions of
this Act or any matter in respect of which regulations are
required or authorized under this Act to be made.
Regulations.
Offences under
this Act not to be
political offences
&c., for the
purposes of the
Extradition Law.
Amendment to
the Extradition
Law, No. 8 of
1977.
Minister to issue
directions.
Measures to be
taken for the
prevention of
any offence
under this Act or
the offence of
money
laundering.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
prevoiusly done thereunder.
(4) A Notification of the date of disapproval shall be
published in the Gazette.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 11 -->

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
10
Schedule I (Section 3)
1. The Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of
Aircraft, done at the Hague on December 16, 1970.
2. The Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against
the Safety of Civil Aviation, done at Montreal on September
23, 1971.
3. The Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes
against Internationally Protected Persons, including
Diplomatic Agents, adopted by the General Assembly of the
United Nations on December 14, 1973.
4. The International Convention against the Taking of Hostages,
adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on
December 17, 1979.
5. The Convention on Physical Protection of Nuclear Material,
adopted at Vienna on March 3, 1980.
6. The Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of
Violence at Airports serving International Civil Aviation,
Supplementary to the Convention for the Suppression of
Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, done at
Montreal on February 24, 1988.
7. Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against
the Safety of Maritime Navigation, done at Rome on March
10, 1988.
8. The Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against
the Safety of Fixed Platforms located on the Continental
Shelf, done at Rome on March 10, 1988.
9. International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist
Bombings, adopted by the General Assembly of the United
Nations on December 15, 1997.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
Schedule II
(Sections 8,9,10,11, & 13)
(1) Unlawfully and wilfully providing or collecting funds with
the intention that such funds should be used, or in the
knowledge that they are to be used, or having reason to
beleive that they are likely to be used in full or in part, in
order to commit,—
(a) an act which constitutes an offence within the scope
of, or within the definition of any one of the treaties
specified in the Schedule I to this Act ;
(b) any other act, intended to cause death or serious
bodily injury, to a civilian or to any other person not
taking an active part in the hostilities, in a situation of
armed conflict,
and the purpose of such act, by its nature and context is to
intimidate a population or to compel a government or an
international organization, to do or to abstain from doing
any act.
(2) Attempt to commit the offence referred to in paragraph (1).
(3) Aiding and abetting the commission of the offence referred
to in paragraph (1).
(4) Acting with a common purpose with another person or a
group of persons and contributing to the commission of the
offence referred to in paragraph (1).

<!-- page 13 -->

Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Financing
Act, No. 25 of 2005
12
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.