

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
KOTASARA PIYANGALA RAJAMAHA VIHARASTHA
DEVELOPMENT SOCIETY (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Nalin Bandara Jayamaha M.P. for
Kurunegala District on December 15, 2015
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
[Bill No. 53]
(Published in the Gazette on November 30, 2015)
to incorporate the Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society
——————
——————
2—PL 009593—225 (12/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society (Incorporation)
2—PL 009417—  300 (11/2015)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KOTASARA PIYANGALA RAJAMAHA
VIHARASTHA DEVELOPMENT SOCIETY
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Kotasara
Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha Development Society”  has
heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and
matters connected with the said Foundation according to
the rules agreed to by its members.
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  the the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Kotasara Piyangala
Rajamaha Viharastha Development Society (Incorporation)
Act, No.   of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
“Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha Development
Society” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the
name and style of the “
Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha
Viharastha Development Society” and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Kotasara
Piyangala
Rajamaha
Viharastha
Development
Society
.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. The general objects for which Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) provision of necessities, maintenance and carrying
out Wegama Sri Saddarmalankara Vidyayatanaya,
Wegama Sri Sobhita Dharmayatanaya, Mapakada
Sri Swarnajothi Dhamma School, Kotasara Perahera
Organization and Kotasara Sathara Peruwa
Avamangalyadara Samithi affiliated to the Kotasara
Piyangala Raja Maha Viharastha Sanwardena
Sabhawa, to organize activities to bring about
religious fervour among Buddhists and to promote
social and economic activities of the people in the
area ;
(b) to preserve and develop as a place of religious and
cultural importance by the erection of a parapet
wall and Wahalkada in the above mentioned
Wiharastha New Dhamma Hall, creation of an
orchard in the premises of this Institute ;
(c) to provide housing and health facilities and water
to poor and destitute in the area ;
(d) to provide facilities to poor children in the relevant
district to improve their education
 ;
(e) to promote, encourage and assist in, activities for
the spiritual, cultural, social and physical welfare of
its members ;
(f) to safeguard and propagate Buddhism ;
(g) to communicate the message contained in the
teachings of the Buddha and to propogate Buddhist
culture with a view to promoting world peace ;
(h) to present the Buddhist point of view on any matter,
on behalf of the Buddist community at conferences
and seminars on global problems relating to
education culture, communications survival,
development and peace, convened by any
international, governmental or non-governmental
organizations, whether religious or secular ;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(i) to initiate, co-ordinate and assist studies on problems
of survival, development, peace, education and
culture, from a Buddhist perspective and publish
the results of such studies;
(j) to provide facilities for Buddhist leaders and scholars
of the world to meet and discuss ; and
(k) to function as a documentation Centre for peace
oriented Buddhist Study groups meditation groups,
mass-media groups and action groups and to provide
for the exchange of information and the sharing of
experiences ;
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporatoin shall,  subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Committee of Management consisting of
the Director-General, the Honorary Secretary and the
Honorary Treasurer and not less than six other members as
may be provided for in those rules and elected in accordance
therewith.
(2) The member of the Foundation Chief Incumbent
Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Vihara (Ven.) Sri
Nandiramadhipathi Badulla Gammana Gunarathana Thero,
shall be the Chairman of the Board of Directors for life. The
Chairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Corporation.
(3) The first Committee of Management of the
Corporation shall consist of the member of the Committee of
Management of the Foundation holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, and whose
names are specified in the Schedule to this Act.
  5. Subject to the provisions of this Act, or other written
law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform and
execute all such acts, matters and things what so ever as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or
raise money, with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations, to invest its funds, and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the corporation.
  6. (1)  It shall be lawful for the  Corporation from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions  of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulison of members ;
(b) the election of the office bearers, resignation or
vacation of, or removal from office of office-bearers
and their powers, conduct and duties ;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
Management, its powers, conduct and duties ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at, and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation,
Committee of management or any sub-committee
and of the time, places, notices and agenda, of such
meetings, the quorum therefore and conduct of
business thereof ;
(e) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of accounts ; and
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25 Seal of the
Corporation.
30
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, or any other written law, be deemed to be rules made
under this section.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all
debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
8. The Corporation  shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, lease or testamentary disposition or otherwise and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation
for the time being in force with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of a
member of the Committee of Management and 
the Honorary
Secretary or such other person duly authorised by the
Committee of Management   who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society (Incorporation)
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, expect such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kotasara Piyangala Rajamaha Viharastha
Development Society (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .