

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
39
39
wxl 1"584 - 2009 ckjdß 09 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'01'09
No. 1,584 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 09, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 41
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th January, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd
January, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part II of the Gazette No. 1,583 of  02.01.2009 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
40
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
41
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrar's - Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule here to.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th February, 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th December, 2008.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which applications
Secretariat Division applications are called should be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Additional Marriage District Secretary/Additional, Registrar
(Kandyan and General) in Yatikinda General, District Secretariat, Badulla
Badulla Passara Post of Medical Registrar in Passara District Secretary/Additional, Registrar
Town Division General, District Secretariat, Badulla
01–159
–––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar's - Marriages, Births and Deaths
RA TNAPURA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule here to.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
42
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th February, 200 9.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th December, 2008.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which applications
Secretariat Division applications are called should be sent
Ratnapura Godakawela Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional, Registrar
in Rakwana Division and Marriages General, District Secretariat, Ratnapura
(Kandyan and General) in Atakalan
Korale
Ratnapura Godakawela Post of Registrar of Births in Rideevit District Secretary/Additional, Registrar
Division and Marriage (Kandyan and General, District Secretariat, Ratnapura
General) in Atakalan Korale
01–157
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar's - Marriages, Births and Deaths
AMPARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
43
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 20th February, 200 9.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
18th December, 2008.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which applications
Secretariat Division applications are called should be sent
Ampara Ampara Post of Additional Marriage District Secretary/Additional, Registrar
(General) Registrar in General, District Secretariat, Ampara
Wewagampattu North
Ampara Ampara Post of Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional, Registrar
Deaths in Pottuvil Division General, District Secretariat, Ampara
01–158
DEPARTMENT  OF  HINDU  RELIGIOUS  AND
CULTURAL  AFFAIRS
Post of Manager for the Hindu Pilgrim's Rest,
Kataragama
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for the
post of Manager for the Hindu Pilgrim's Rest, Kataragama.
Applications as per specimen given below should be sent by
"Registered Post" to the Director, Department of Hindu Religious
and Cultural Affairs, 248 1/1, Galle Road, Colombo 04 to reach
him/her on or before 12th February, 2009 the words "Post of Manager
for the Hindu Pilgrim's Rest, Kataragama" should be written on the
top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
Note :
(a) Application or documents, relating to these should be
addressed to the Director, Department of Hindu Religious
and Cultural Affairs and not personally to any officer.
(b) Complaints as to loss or delay of application or documents
relating to the post canot be considered.
02. Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale attached to
the post is Rs. 13,845 - 4 x 145 - 11 x 170 - 10 x 240 - 10 x 32 -
Rs. 22,040 with cost of living allowance.
03. Age limit. – Not less than 26 years and not more than 40
years of age on 12.02.2009.
Note.– The upper age limit does not apply to those already in
the service.
04. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed three subjects in G . C. E. (A/L) or
equivalent qualification which would include one subject
out of the following :
1. Accountancy
2. Commerce and Finance
3. Economics
(ii) Should be a Hindu and have obtained a Pass in Hinduism/
Saivism at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination or a Pass in
Hindu Civilization in G . C. E. (A/L) examination.
05. Other Qualifications :
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should have an excellent moral character and possess
physical fitness and sound mind.
06. Terms of engagement :–
(a) The post is permanent and pensionable. The
appointment will be on probation for 03 years.
(b) The selected candidate will be subjected to the
Departmental Orders, Financial Regulations, Regulation
of the Establishment Code and Regulation that may be
issued by the Government from time to time.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
44
07. Appointment will be made on the results of a written
competitive examination which will be conducted as per conditions
laid in the Public Administration Circular No. 15/90 dated 09.03.1990
and the interview. A written examination will be conducted in
Colombo to test the candidates' aptitude capability and general
knowledge.
08. The candidates who will be selected on the results of the test
should produce the originals of certificates relating to educational
qualifications. Date of birth and two character certificates at the
interview.
09. Applications forwarded through Head of Department will
not be accepted if received after the closing date.
10. Reference is requested to the General Conditions applicable
to appointment to the post in the Public Service published at the
beginning of Part I Section (IIA) of the Gazette.
S
HANTHI NA VUKARASAN,
Director,
Department of Hindu Religious and
Cultural Affairs.
No. 248 1/1, Galle Road,
Colombo 04,
22nd December, 2008.
SPECEMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
POST OF MANAGER FOR THE HINDU PILGRIM'S REST, KATARAGAMA
01. Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––.
(a) Surname :––––––––.
(b) Other Names :––––––––.
02. Address :––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
04. Age on 12.02.2009 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
05. (i) Nationality :––––––––.
(ii) Religion :––––––––.
06. Whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration (If
by registration give Citizenship Certificate Reference No. and
Date) :––––––––.
07. Place of Birth :––––––––.
08. Sex :––––––––.
09. Whether Married or Single :––––––––.
10. Educational Qualification :––––––––.
11. Are you presently in State Service ? If so state :
(i) Department :––––––––.
(ii) Post :––––––––.
(iii) Date of joining :––––––––.
12. Have you been in State Service earlier ? If so, furnish the
following details :
(i) Department :––––––––.
(ii) Post held :––––––––.
(iii) Date of termination of service :––––––––.
(iv) Cause of such termination :––––––––.
13. Give name and address of two persons known to you from
whom particulars about you could be obtained :
Name :––––––––. Address :––––––––.
I. ––––––––– I. –––––––––
II. ––––––––– II. –––––––––
14. Have you been charged for any criminal offences in a Court of
Law ? If so state full particulars with date, case No. etc. :––––.
15. Other qualifications :––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in the
application are true and accurate. I am also aware that of any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I
am eligible to be disqualified before selection and shall be
dismissed without any compensation to me if the inaccuracy is
detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
R
ECOMMENDA TION OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IN CASE THE
APPLICANT IS EMPLOYED BY THE STATE
If selected for appointment for the post applied, this applicant
can be/ cannot be released from this Department.
––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of
Department/Ministry.
Date :––––––––.
01–180
COMMISSION  TO  INVESTIGATE  ALLEGATIONS  OF
BRIBERY  OR  CORRUPTION
Post of Assistant Director (Legal)
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who
possess the required qualifications to fill the vacancies in the post
of Assistant Director (Legal) in the Commission to Investigate

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
45
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption All applications should be
prepared according to the Specimen form attached hereto and should
be reached "The Director General, Commission to Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, No. 36, Malalasekera
Mawatha, Colombo 7 "under registered cover on or before
31.01.2009. The words "Application for the Post of Assistant
Director (Legal)" should be written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope containing the application.
01. Salary Scale :
01.1 Monthly salary scale for this post is Rs. 28,095 - 5 x
654 - 5  x 790 - Rs. 35,270 (Salary Code SL5).
02. Eligibility : Every applicant should :
02.1 be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
02.2 be of excellent moral character and physically sound.
02.3 be not less than 22 years and not more than 45 years of
age as at 31.01.2009 (The maximum age limit will not be
applicable to those employed in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service).
02.4 be an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court with not
less than 02 years of experience.
03. Method of Recruitment :
03.1 Selection will be made by a duly constituted Interview
Board.
03.2 The Public Service Commission reserves the right for
recruitment to the post.
04. Conditions of Service :
4.1 Efficiency Bar .– An officer appointed to the post is
required to pass first Efficiency Bar Examination within
three years from the date of appointment. (The Syllabus
for this examination is in Appendix I).
4.2 The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows' and Orphans/Widowers and
Orphans' Pensions Fund.
4.3 Appointees should comply with the rules and
regulations of Public Service Commission, the
provisions of the Establishment Code, Financial
Regulations, orders of this Commission and any other
rules and regulations imposed by the Government from
time to time.
4.4 The appointment is subject to a 3 years probationary
period with effect from the date of appointment. If a
permanent Public Officer is appointed, he/she will be
subject to a period of one year on acting basis.
4.5 An officer appointed for the post should acquire
proficiency in the other official language within a period
of five years from the date of appointment in addition
to the official language through which they the service.
05. Candidates who are already employed in Government
Department/Boards/Corporations must forward their applications
through the Heads of Departments or Institutions in which they
are serving at present.
06. Applicants should furnish following documents when they
receive an intimation. None of the certificates should be sent along
with the application :
(i) Educational Certificates ;
(ii) Certificate of Birth ;
(iii) National Identity Card ;
(iv) Certificates of experience (period of experience should
be certified by either an Attorney-at-Law with not less
than 10 years experience in the legal profession or a
Judicial Officer) ;
(v) Two testimonials (one should be from the Grama
Niladhari counter signed by the Divisional Secretary).
07. Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications not in
conformity with this notice will be rejected without any intimation.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
L
UCKSHMI JAYAWICKRAMA,
Director General,
Commission to Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.
Commission to Investigate,
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption,
No. 36, Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
15th December, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
A
PPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR (LEGAL) OF THE
COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION
01. (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––.
(ii) Name in Full :––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Residential Address :––––––––.
(ii) Of ficial Address (if employed in Public Service ) :––––.
03. Date of Birth :
(i) Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 31.01.2009 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'01'09
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 09.01.2009
46
04. N. I. C. No. :––––––––.
05. Ethnicity :––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––.
07. (i) Educational Qualifications :––––––––.
(ii) Professional Qualifications :––––––––.
(iii) Period of professional experience as at 31.01.2009 :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
08. Have you ever been dismissed from the Public Service or vacated
from post :––––––––.
09. (i) Have you ever been convicted from a Court of Law
:––––––––.
(ii) If yes, give details :––––––––.
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before the selection or discontinuance after the
selection.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––.
If the applicant is in the Public Service :
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................... is an employee of
this Department/Board/Corporation. In the event of his/her selection
for appointment he/she can/cannot be released from this
Department/Board/Corporation. (Delete inapplicable words).
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Name :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Department :––––––––.
(Offiical Stamp)
Date :––––––––.
Appendix I
SYLLABUS OF THE EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION
The Efficiency Bar Examination will consist with one paper
including the Establishment Code and the Financial Regulations.
The paper will be of three hour duration with 100 marks.
1. The Establishment Code - following chapters : II, VII, XII,
XIII, XVI, XXVIII, XXX, XLVII, XLVIII.
2. Financial Regulations - following chapters : I, II, III, IV , V ,
VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV .
3. Departmental Regulations.– All Circulars, instructions and
Regulations pertaining to the Commission to Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain 40 marks for a pass.
01–156
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.