

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 99]
————————
Presented by the Prime Minister and Minister of Buddha Sasana and
Religious Affairs on 08th April, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on March 28, 2011)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
2-2d
2-
OVERSEAS EMPLOYEES’ PENSION BENEFITS FUND
to establish an Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund to provide
pension benefits to certain employees who become eligible to such pension
in  terms  of  this  Act;  and to  provide for  matters  connected therewith or
incidental thereto
Price : Rs. 16.00 Postage : Rs. 7.50

<!-- page 2 -->

1Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
Short title
and date of
operation.
5
10
15
20
L.D.—O 25/2011
A N  ACT  TO  ESTABLISH  AN  OVERSEAS  EMPLOYEES ’ PENSION  BENEFITS
FUND  TO  PROVIDE  PENSION  BENEFITS  TO  CERTAIN  EMPLOYEES  WHO
BECOME  ELIGIBLE  TO  SUCH  PENSION  IN TERMS  OF  THIS  ACT ; AND  TO
PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL
THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1.  This Act may be cited as the Overseas Employees’
Pension Benefits Fund Act, No.       of 2011.
PART  I
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  OVERSEAS  EMPLOYEES ’ PENSION  BENEFITS
FUND  AND  ADMINISTRATION  OF  THE  FUND
2. For the purpose of this Act there shall be established
a fund called the Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits
Fund (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “the Fund”).
3.  (1) An employee shall become a member of the
Fund at the time such employee first becomes liable under
section 10 to pay contributions to the Fund, and shall
continue to be a member of the Fund for so long as there
remains to his credit, any sum of money in his individual
account in the Fund.
(2)  Neither a member of the Fund nor any person claiming
under him shall have any interest in, or claim to, the moneys
of the Fund otherwise than by virtue of any provision of this
Act or of any regulation.
4. (1) Except as otherwise provided for in this Act, the
Chairman of the Sri Lanka Foreign employment Bureau,
shall be in charge of the general administration of this Act.
Establishment
of
Employees’
Pension
Benefits
Fund.
Membership
of the Fund.
Administration
of this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund2
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2)  Subject to any general or special directions of the
Chairman Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau or any
officer of the Sri Lanka Foreign Employment Bureau
authorized by the Chairman in that behalf, may exercise,
perform or discharge any power, duty or function of the
Commissioner, under this Act or any regulation framed under
this Act.
(3) There may be appointed such number of officers,
including District Secretaries, Divisional Secretaries and
Grama Niladharies as may be required for the purpose of
carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
(4)  The Chairman may either generally or specifically
authorize any officer under subsection (3) of this section to
exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or function
of the Chairman under this Act or under any regulation.
5.  (1)  The Monetary Board—
(a) may appoint such officers and servants as may be
required by the Board for exercising its powers,
performing its duties and discharging its functions
under this Act, fix the salaries and wages of such
officers and servants and determine their conditions
of service;
(b) shall receive all sums paid under this Act as
contributions,  surcharges and fees, and the income
from the investment of moneys of the Fund and
shall credit such sums and income to  the Fund;
(c) shall have custody of the moneys of the Fund;
(d) shall pay to the persons certified by the Chairman
the benefits to which those persons are entitled
under this Act;
Powers and
duties of the
Monetary
Board in
relation to
the Fund.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
5
10
15
20
25
30
(e) may invest such of the moneys of the Fund as are
not immediately required for the purposes of this
Act, in  such  securities as the Board may consider
fit, while ensuring that not less than two thirds of
such monies are invested in Government Securities;
(f) shall maintain a general account in respect of the
Fund, and a separate account (in this Act referred to
as an individual account) in respect of each member
of the Fund;
(g) shall maintain and operate a Suspense Account for
the matters specified in section 6;
(h) shall cause the books of accounts relating to the
Fund to be balanced as on the thirty-first day of
December in each year;
(i) shall cause to be prepared in respect of the Fund for
each year a statement of receipts and payments, a
statement of assets and liabilities, a statement of
income and expenditure, a statement of investment
showing the face value, purchase price, and market
value of each of the investments;
 (j) shall transmit to the Minister a copy of each of the
statements prepared under the preceding paragraph
(j) for each year within three months after the thirty-
first day of  December of that year;
(k) shall notify each member of the Fund within six
months after the thirty-first day of December in each
year, of the amount lying as a positive or negative
balance of the individual account of such member
on that day;
(l) shall, deduct from the income from the investment
of moneys of the fund, the expense incurred by
the Board and the Chairman in carrying out their
respect functions under this Act;

<!-- page 5 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund4
5
10
15
20
(m ) may establish such reserves out of the income of
the Fund as the Monetary Board may determine, to
meet any contingencies or any depreciation in the
market value of the assets of the Fund;
(n) shall have such other powers and duties in
connection with the Fund as may be conferred or
imposed on such Board, by Order published in the
Gazette, by the Minister with the concurrence of
the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(2) Every officer or servant appointed under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) shall be deemed to be employed for the
performance of duties under the Monetary Law Act, for the
purpose of application of the provisions of the said Act
relating to officers and servants.
(3)   For the purposes of paragraph (m ) of subsection (1)
“expenses” shall include –
(i) any loss of moneys on account of theft,
misappropriation or overpayment;
(ii)any loss of articles, being furniture, office
equipment or stationary used in or purchased for
the administration of the Fund, the cost of which
cannot be recovered from the persons responsible
for such loss; and
(iii) the value of any articles, being stationery, furniture
or office equipment which are not usable or which
are not functioning and are incapable of being
repaired.
6. (1) There shall be credited to the Suspense Account
maintained and operated by  the Monetary Board all
contributions received under this Act in respect of which
the returns furnished are deficient or incorrect and the
moneys cannot be credited to individual accounts-
Suspense
Account of
Monetary
Board.
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) Any moneys as are specified above which are held in
an Account maintained by the Fund shall be transferred by
the Monetary Board to the Suspense Account.
(3) Where any moneys are transferred from the Suspense
Account to an individual account as provided for in this
paragraph, interest shall be paid on the sum, for the period
from the date of receipt of such moneys to the date of transfer
of such moneys to the individual account, for a period not
exceeding six years prior to the date of such transfer, and the
rate of interest shall be the rate determined in terms of
subsection (1) of section 13 of the Act, and applicable for
the year in respect of which the interest is paid;
7. (1) The accounts of the Fund in respect of each year
shall be audited by the Auditor General and the cost of the
audit shall be paid to be him out of the Fund. All payments
made to the Auditor - General under this subsection shall be
credited to the Consolidated Fund.
(2)  The Auditor-General or any officer of his department
authorized by him to audit the accounts of the Fund, shall
have access to all such books and documents as the Auditor-
General or such officer may consider necessary for the
purposes of the audit of such accounts, and shall be furnished
by the Monetary Board and the Commissioner with such
information within their knowledge or ascertainable by them,
as may be required for such purposes.
(3)  The Auditor-General shall examine the accounts of
the Fund and submit to the Minister annually a report -
(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all the
information required by him.;
(b)  stating whether the accounts referred to in the
report are properly drawn up so as to exhibit an
accurate and justifiable analysis of the affairs of
the moneys lying to the credit of the Pension Fund;
and
Auditor
General to
audit the
accounts of
the Fund,
&c,.

<!-- page 7 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund6
5
10
(c ) drawing attention to any item in such accounts
which in his opinion may be of interest to Parliament
in any examination of such accounts.
(4) Such report shall not disclose the name of any member
of the Fund.
(5) The Minister shall lay before Parliament a copy of the
Auditor-General’s report submitted to the Minister under
subsection (3) of this section and copies of the statements
transmitted to the Minister by the Monetary Board under
paragraph (k) of subsection (1) of section 5.
8.   Every sum paid out of the Consolidated Fund—
(a) to the Chairman prior to the date of enactment of
this Act, for defraying the expenditure incurred in
making preliminary arrangements for the
establishment of the Fund;
(b) to the Monetary Board, for defraying all
expenditure, including capital expenditure incurred
by such Board and the Chairman in implementing
the provisions of this Act during the period
commencing on the date of enactment of this Act
and ending on the date of the coming into operation
of this Act,
shall constitute a loan from the Government to the Monetary
Board and shall be repaid in accordance with such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
9. The expenses incurred by the Chairman and the
Monetary Board in carrying out the provisions of this Act
shall be charged on the income from the investment of the
moneys of the Fund. Provided, however that the expenses
out of the provisions of Part IV of this Act shall be paid out
of the income from the investment of moneys of the Fund.
Repayments
to
Government.
Expenses
incurred in
the
administration
of the Act.
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
PART  II
EMPLOYEES  TO  WHOM  THIS ACT  APPLIES, COVERED
EMPLOYMENTS  AND  CONTRIBUTIONS
10. Any person who is engaged in an overseas
employment who is not covered under the Government
Pension Minutes or any Pension Fund approved by the
Commissioner of Labour may, if they so desire, become a
member of the fund established in terms of section 2 and all
employees who become members shall be persons to whom
this Act applies.
11. (1) An employee to whom this Act applies shall,
during the term within which such employee is engaged in
an overseas employment, may opt to join the Fund by paying
a contribution of an amount not less than twelve thousand
rupees annually for a minimum of two consecutive years
(for the purpose of this section ‘year’ shall mean any twelve
consecutive calendar months). Such minimum contribution
may be made in one or more installments as may be decided
by the employee. An employee shall have to make the
minimum contribution prior to such employee reaching the
age of fifty -five years.
(2) The  fund shall comprise –
(a) a sum of rupees one thousand million as the initial
capital to be allocated by the Government from the
Consolidated Fund;
(b) the monies lying to the credit of the Fund
established under the Foreign Employment Bureau
of Sri Lanka, as at April 1, 2011 shall be transferred
to the Fund.
12. (1)  The liability of an employee and the
Chairman of Labour or such other authority, to pay
contributions under section 10 shall commence on the day
immediately after the date fixed in relation to such
employment by the Minister by Order published in the
Gazette.
Employees to
whom this
Act applies.
Contributions.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Commencement
of liability to
pay
contributions.

<!-- page 9 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund8
(2) An employee in an overseas employment may
commence to make contributions under this section any time
after the date of operation of this Act subject to the provisions
stipulated in section 10 hereof.
13. (1)  An annual interest rate, not less than two point
five  percentum, as may be annually fixed by the Monetary
Board with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance, shall be credited to the individual
accounts on a monthly basis, out of the income from the
investment of the moneys of the Fund, on the amount standing
to the credit of the individual account of each member of the
Fund;
(2)  Where the income from the investment of the moneys
of the Fund is inadequate to pay any part of the interest
payable on contributions paid to the Fund under this Act,
the amount of the deficit  shall be met out of the moneys
provided by Parliament for the purpose.
(3)  Any sum provided by Parliament under subsection
(2) of this section shall constitute a loan from the
Government to the Monetary Board and shall be repaid in
accordance with such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
(4)  The Fund shall be deemed to be a Pension fund
approved by the Commissioner – General of Labour for the
purposes of the Inland Revenue Act, No.10 of 2006.
14. (1) Any moneys due to the Fund shall be recoverable,
as a debt due to the State, by an action in which proceedings
may be taken by way of summary procedure.  The provisions
of the Civil Procedure Code relating to actions of which the
procedure is summary shall apply to an action under this
section , and, for the purposes only of the application of
Recovery of
contributions.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Interest on
contributions
&c,.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
such provisions to such action, section 8 of that Code shall
have effect as if, for the words “by this Ordinance” occurring
in that section, there were substituted the words “by this
Ordinance or by any other written law”.
(2)  Proceedings for the recovery of any moneys due
to the Fund may be instituted by the Chairman or any
officer authorized in that behalf by him, and the
Chairman or such officer may, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in any other written law conduct such
proceedings.
(3) The provisions of the Prescription Ordinance shall
not apply to the recovery of any sums payable as
contributions or surcharges under this Act.
15. The contributions of a member of the Fund and of
his employer in respect of him and the interest on such
contribution shall be credited by the Monetary Board to the
individual account of such member.
16. Every assignment of, or charge on, any sum to the
credit of the individual account of a member of the Fund
and every agreement to assign or charge any such sum shall
be void, and, where that member is adjudged insolvent by a
competent court, any such sum shall not pass to any assignee
acting on behalf of that member’s creditors notwithstanding
the provisions of the Insolvency Ordinance.
PART III
P
ENSION
17. (1) Save as hereinafter provided in this section and
subject to the contributions made in terms of section 10, a
member of the Fund shall be paid a monthly pension upon
such member attaining the age of sixty five (65) years.
5
10
15
20
25
30
The sums to
be credited to
the
individual
accounts of
members.
Money to the
credit of
individual
accounts to
be
inalienable.
Time at
which
pension will
be paid.

<!-- page 11 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund10
(2) The Chairman shall require the respective District
Secretary, Divisional Secretary or the Grama Niladahri to
confirm at least annually, that a person to whom this Act
applies and who is a member of the Fund, is alive.  In respect
of those members who are residing outside Sri Lanka, the
verification shall be done through the Sri Lankan Missions
based in the respective countries or in the absence through
the available diplomatic channels. Action shall be taken to
strike off the name of any member reported to be dead.
18. (1)   Where a member of the fund dies-
(a) before receiving a Pension having contributed as
required in terms of this Act; or
(b) before receiving a Pension, without having
completed making the contribution as required
under this Act;
leaving a child below eighteen years of age or a child who is
certified by a registered medical practitioner to be physically
or mentally disabled, and who therefore is unfit to earn a
living on their own, a lump sum equivalent to sixty percent
of the amount lying to the credit of the member’s individual
account shall be paid to such dependent. If there is more
than one dependent, such amount will be divided among
the dependents in equal shares.
(2) Where a member of the fund ceases to be employed by
reason of a permanent incapacity to work and is certified by
a registered medical practitioner to be unfit for work for that
reason, and such member has not completed making the
contributions as required under this Act, a sum equivalent
to sixty percent of the amount lying to the credit of the
member’s individual account shall be paid to such member.
19. It shall be a condition of any person’s right to a
pension   under this Act that he or any person on his behalf
in instances so permitted under this Act shall makes a claim
thereto in the prescribed manner.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Powers to
whom a
lump sum
shall be paid
in certain
circumstances.
Claim to
receive a
pension.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
PART  IV
D ETERMINATION  OF  CLAIMS
20. All claims to pensions shall be determined by the
Chairman or by any officer authorized in that behalf by him
and the determination of the Chairman or such officer based
on the balance available in such member”s individual
account shall, subject to any decision on an appeal made
against such determination in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, be final:
Provided that any determination made by any officer
under this section may within the prescribed period be
reviewed by the Chairman on his own motion; and in such
case the determination of the Chairman shall be deemed,
for the purposes of section 27 to be the determination in
that case.
21. (1) Any person aggrieved by any determination
made under section 20 may appeal from such determination
to an Appeal Tribunal (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
“the Tribunal”) constituted in the prescribed manner, and
the decision of the Tribunal on such appeal shall, subject to
any Order whish the Court of Appeal may make on appeal
made from such decision in accordance with the provisions
of subsection (2) of this section, be final.
(2) Where the Chairman or any party to an appeal made
to the Tribunal is dissatisfied with the decision of the
Tribunal on such appeal, the Chairman or that party may by
written petition in which every other party to the appeal is
mentioned as a respondent, appeal to the Court of Appeal
from that decision on a question of law. The petition of
appeal shall state the question of law to be argued, shall bear
a certificate by an attorney-at -law that such question is fit
for adjudication by the Court of Appeal, shall be presented
to the Tribunal by the appellant within twenty- one days
after the date of the Tribunal’s decision from which the appeal
5
10
15
20
25
30
Chairman  or
an officer
authorized
by the
Chairman to
determine
claims.
Appeals.

<!-- page 13 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund12
is preferred, and shall be accompanied by a sufficient number
of copies for service on each of the persons mentioned as
respondents. Every such petition of appeal shall be
accompanied by the prescribed fee.
(3) Where a petition of appeal is presented to the Tribunal
in the manner and within the time specified in subsection
(2) of this section, it shall be the duty of the Tribunal—
(a) to cause the petition to be transmitted to the Court
of Appeal together with the record of the
proceedings in which the decisions of the Tribunal
against which the petition is preferred was made;
and
(b) to cause notice of the appeal and a copy of the
petition of appeal to be served on each of the
respondents named in the petition of appeal.
(4) Every appeal to the Court of Appeal under this section
may be heard and determined by any two Judges of that
Court.
(5) Upon a decision being given by the Court of Appeal
in any appeal under this section, the Registrar of that Court
shall remit the case to the Tribunal together with the decision
of that Court, and it shall be the duty of the Tribunal, if the
decision of that Court so requires, to rescind or vary in such
manner as is required by the decision of that Court , the
decision of the Tribunal from which the appeal was preferred
and, where necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the
decision of that Court, to make a fresh decision in that regard
within thirty days thereof.
(6) In any appeal made to the Court of Appeal under this
section that Court may make such Order in regard to costs as
to that Court may seem fit.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 14 -->

13Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(7) Any costs ordered by the Court of Appeal under
subsection (6) of this section to be paid by any person may,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other written
law, be recovered, on application made in that behalf to the
Magistrate’s Court having jurisdiction in the place where
that person is resident, in like manner as a fine imposed by
that Magistrate’s Court, notwithstanding that such of its
ordinary jurisdiction impose.
(8) Subject to any regulations made under this Act, the
Tribunal may regulate its own procedure.
22. The members of the Tribunal may be paid such
remuneration as the Minister may determine with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance.
PART V
G
ENERAL
23. Any person who-
(a) contravenes any provision of this Act or of any
regulation made thereunder; or
(b) furnishes, for the purposes of this Act, information
which is, or any document the contents of which
are, or any part of contents of which is, to his
knowledge untrue or incorrect;
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
24. Every person who is guilty of an offence under this
Act shall be liable, on conviction after summary trial before
a Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees
5
10
15
20
25
Remuneration
of  members
of the
Tribunal.
Offences.
Punishment
for offences.

<!-- page 15 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund14
or to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment,
and shall in addition be liable to a fine not exceeding  rupees
five hundred for each day on which the offence is continued
after conviction.
25. No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall
be instituted except by or with the written sanction of the
Chairman.
26. (1) An extract of the Gazette in which any
Regulation or Order made under this Act is published, or a
copy of such Regulation or Order certified by the Chairman
to be a true copy, may produced in Court in proof of such
Regulation or Order.
  (2) In any legal proceedings-
(a) a copy of an entry in any book of accounts
maintained by the Monetary Board for the purposes
by an account of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to
be a true copy; or
(b) a copy of an entry in any book or record maintained
by the Chairman for the purposes of this Act
purporting to have been certified by him to be a
true copy,
shall be prima facie evidence of the fact that such entry has
been made and of the contents thereof.
27. (1) The income from the investment of any moneys
of the Fund shall be exempt from income tax chargeable
under any written law relating to the imposition of income
tax.
5
10
15
20
25
No
prosecution
without the
sanction of
the
Commissioner.
Proof of
regulations
and orders
&c,.
Exemption
from income
tax.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
 (2) The Fund shall be deemed to be a pension fund
approved by the Commissioner, for the purposes of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.
In this subsection “Commissioner” and “Commissioner-
General” shall have the same meaning as in the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.
28. Stamp duty shall not be chargeable upon such
documents used in connection with the purpose of this Act
as may be prescribed.
29. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall
lie against any person for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any
regulations made there under.
30. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions of
this Act and in respect of matters required by this Act to be
prescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorized
or required to be made.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters –
(a) in respect of all matters connected with or incidental
to the collection of contributions and other
payments under this Act;
(b) in respect of the refund of any sums paid in error to
the Fund.
(c) for enabling a person to be appointed to exercise,
on behalf of a claimant to a beneficiary who is a
child or who may be unable for the time being to
act, any right which the claimant may be entitled to
5
10
15
20
25
30
Exemption
from stamp
duty.
Protection
for action
taken under
this Act.
Regulations.

<!-- page 17 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund16
exercise under this Act, and for authorizing a person
so appointed to receive and deal with a benefit to
which a claimant is entitled;
(d) in respect to whom the amount standing to the credit
of that member’s individual account in the Fund
may be paid in the event of that member’s death ;
(e) in respect of the manner in which and the time within
which appeals to the Tribunal constituted under
this Act shall be made;
(f) in respect of the fees to be paid for appeals to such
Tribunal;
(g) in respect of the procedure to be followed and the
powers exercisable by such Tribunal;
(h) in respect of the circumstance in which costs may
be awarded by such Tribunal against any party to
an appeal made to the Tribunal and the manner of
recovery of such costs;
(i) to provide for matters arising—
(i) pending the determination under this Act
(whether in the first instance or on appeal) of
any claim to a benefit or of any question
affecting any person’s right to a benefit or
any person’s liability for contributions to the
Fund; or
(ii)out of the revision on appeal to the Tribunal
of any decision on any such claim or
question;
(j) for the suspension of the grant of a pension pending
the review by the Chairman of the determination
upon the claim to that pension;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 18 -->

17Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
(k) for treating any sum paid to any person under a
determination made under this Act or by virtue of
any provision of any regulation, which it is
subsequently decided was not payable, as properly
paid, or for the repayment by him and for the
recovery from him of that sum;
(l) the payment of allowances to officers and servants
employed in carrying out the provisions of this Act
and the method of computing such allowances;
(m ) for the recovery of fees to be charged for the writing
off of losses which may be incurred, in connection
with the administration of this Act; and
(n) in respect of all matters necessary for carrying out
the provisions of this Act or giving effect to the
principal thereof.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulations.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.  Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
31. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Sri Lanka Foreign
Employment Bureau, established by the Sri Lanka
Bureau of Foreign Employment  Act, No. 21 of 1985;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Interpretation.

<!-- page 19 -->

Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund18
“employee” means any person who is engaged in an
overseas employment and not covered under the
Government Pension Minutes or any Pension Fund
approved by the Commissioner of Labour ;
“Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board
established under the Monetary law Act;
32. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything contained in any other written
law, and in any case of conflict or inconsistency between
the provisions of this Act and such other law, the provision
of this Act shall prevail.
33. In the event of a inconsistency between Sinhala
and the Tamil text of this Act the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Act to prevail
in case of
conflict with
other written
law.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10

<!-- page 20 -->

19Overseas Employees’ Pension Benefits Fund
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.