

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
IMMIGRANTS AND EMIGRANTS
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 31 OF 2006
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 26th September, 2006]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 29, 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2006
1
Short title.
[Certified on 26th September, 2006]
L.D.—O. 43/2006.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  IMMIGRANTS  AND  EMIGRANTS  ACT
(CHAPTER  351)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Immigrants and Emigrants
(Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 2006.
2. Section 45 of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act,
(Chapter 351) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the
words from “paragraph (g), to imprisonment”, to the
end of that paragraph, of the words “paragraph (g),
paragraph (h), paragraph (i), paragraph (j), paragraph
(k), paragraph (l), paragraph (m ), paragraph (n) and
paragraph (o), to  imprisonment  for a term not
exceeding five years and to a fine not exceeding
two hundred thousand rupees;”; and
(2) in subsection (6) thereof,  by the repeal of paragraph
(a) of that subsection.
3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 45B  of the  principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 45C  of that enactment :–
45c. (1) Any person, who—
(a) organizes one or more persons to leave
Sri Lanka in contravention of any of
the provisions of this Act ; or
Amendment of
section 45 of
Chapter 351.
“Facilitating
persons to
leave Sri
Lanka.
Insertion of new
section 45c in
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2006
2
(b) attempts or does any act preparatory
to, or aids and abets any other person
to, so organize under paragraph (a),
shall be guilty of an offence.
(2) Any person guilty of an offence under
subsection (1) shall, upon conviction by a
Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment of either
description for a term not less than one year
and not more than five years.
(3) In this section, the expression “organize”,
with its grammatical variations, includes—
(a) the recruitment of a person on a
promise of securing employment
outside Sri Lanka ;
(b) knowingly making false promises of
employment in a foreign country or
making any false representation or
disseminating misleading information
with the intention of inducing persons
to leave Sri Lanka for foreign
employment ;
(c) soliciting pecuniary benefits from
persons whether or not any such
benefit was realized ;
(d) the transportation of persons by sea,
land or any other manner without
obtaining valid travel documents ;
(e) receiving and harbouring persons
whether in Sri Lanka or in a foreign
country.”.

<!-- page 4 -->

Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2006
3
4. Section 47 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the repeal of
paragraphs (a) and (b)  thereof and the substitution therefor
of the following  paragraph :—
“(a) every offence committed by persons to whom the
provisions of Part III of this Act apply—
(i) under paragraph (a), paragraph (b), paragraph
(c), paragraph (d), paragraph (e), paragraph (f)
or paragraph (g) of subsection (1) of section
45 ; and
(ii) under subsection (2) of section 45 in so far as
it relates to paragraph (a), paragraph (b),
paragraph (c), paragraph (d), paragraph (e),
paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of subsection
(1) of that section ;”;
5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 47 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 47
A  of that enactment :—
47A . (1) Notwithstanding anything in any other
law, no person accused of an offence under section
45c shall be enlarged on bail except by a High
Court upon proof of exceptional circumstances.
(2) Where there is no express provision made
in respect of the granting of bail for an offence
under this Act, bail shall be granted by a
Magistrate.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other law, the application of the
provisions of this section shall extend to every
person who is in remand on the date of coming
into operation of this section.”.
6. In the event of any  inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Insertion of new
section 47
A  in
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 47 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
“Granting of
bail.

<!-- page 5 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT   PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.