

<!-- page 1 -->

SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
the Institute has adopted Sri Lanka Accounting Standard - SLFRS 16 Leases, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri 
Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Standard shall be effective for financial statements 
covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Nineteen. 
By order of the Council, 
 
ArunA Alwis,
        Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
01st September, 2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1982$34 - 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 01 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2016'09'01
No. 1982/34  -  ThuRSdAy,  SepTeMBeR 01,  2016
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
w;s úfYI
 
EXTRAORDINARY
1A
Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette extraordinary will be published separately.
PG 3095(2016/09)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
2A
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  STANDARD SLFRS 16
Leases

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
3A
CONTENTS
from paragraph
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING STANDARD - SLFRS 16
LEASES
INTRODUCTION
OBJECTIVE  1
SCOPE  3
RECOGNITION EXEMPTIONS  5
IDENTIFYING A LEASE  9
Separating components of a contract  12
Lessee  13
Lessor  17
LEASE TERM  18
LESSEE  22
Recognition  22
Measurement  22
Initial measurement  23
Subsequent measurement  29
Presentation  47
Disclosure  51
LESSOR  61
Classification of leases  61
Finance leases  67
Recognition and measurement  67
Operating leases  81
Recognition and measurement  81
presentation  88
Disclosure  89
Finance leases  93
Operating leases  95
SALE AND LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS  98
Assessing whether the transfer of the asset is a sale  99
Transfer of the asset is a sale  100
Transfer of the asset is not a sale  103
APPENDICES
A Defined terms
B Application guidance
C Effective date and transition
D Amendments to other Standards

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
4A
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – SLFRS 16
Leases
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard SLFRS 16 Leases is set out in paragraphs 1–103 and Appendices A - d. All the paragraphs 
have equal authority. paragraphs in bold type state the main principles. Terms defined in Appendix A are in italics the first 
time they appear in the Standard. Definitions of other terms are given in the Glossary for Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. 
SLFRS 16 should be read in the context of its objective, the Preface to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and the Framework 
for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements . LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors provides a basis for selecting and applying accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance.
Objective
1  This Standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement,presentation and disclosure of leases. 
The objective is to ensure thatlessees and lessors provide relevant information in a manner that faithfully 
represents those transactions. This information gives a basis for users of financial statements to assess the 
effect that leases have onthe financial position, financial performance and cash flows of an entity.
2  An entity shall consider the terms and conditions of contracts and all relevant facts and circumstances when 
applying this Standard. An entity shall apply this Standard consistently to contracts with similar characteristics and 
in similar circumstances.
Scope
3  An entity shall apply this Standard to all leases, including leases of right-of-use assets in a sublease, except for:
(a)  leases to explore for or use minerals, oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources;
(b)  leases of biological assets within the scope of LKAS 41 Agriculture held by a lessee;
(c)  service concession arrangements within the scope of IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements;
(d)  licences of intellectual property granted by a lessor within the scope of SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts 
with Customers; and
(e)  rights held by a lessee under licensing agreements within the scope of LKAS 38 Intangible Assets for such 
items as motion picture films, video recordings, plays, manuscripts, patents and copyrights.
4  A lessee may, but is not required to, apply this Standard to leases of intangible assets other than those described in 
paragraph 3(e).
Recognition exemptions (paragraphs B3–B8)
5  A lessee may elect not to apply the requirements in paragraphs 22–49 to:
(a)  short-term leases; and
(b)  leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (as described in paragraphs B3–B8).

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
5A
6  If a lessee elects not to apply the requirements in paragraphs 22–49 to either short-term leases or leases for which 
the underlying asset is of low value, thelessee shall recognise the lease payments associated with those leases as 
anexpense on either a straight-line basis over the lease term or another systematic basis. The lessee shall apply 
another systematic basis if that basis is more representative of the pattern of the lessee’s benefit.
7  If a lessee accounts for short-term leases applying paragraph 6, the lessee shall consider the lease to be a new lease 
for the purposes of this Standard if:
(a)  there is a lease modification; or
(b)  there is any change in the lease term (for example, the lessee exercises an option not previously included in 
its determination of the lease term).
8  The election for short-term leases shall be made by class of underlying asset towhich the right of use relates. A 
class of underlying asset is a grouping of underlying assets of a similar nature and use in an entity’s operations. The 
election for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value can be made ona lease-by-lease basis.
Identifying a lease (paragraphs B9–B33)
9  At inception of a contract, an entity shall assess whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is,  or 
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time 
in exchange for consideration. Paragraphs B9–B31 set out guidance on the assessment of whether a contract 
is, or contains, a lease.
10  A period of time may be described in terms of the amount of use of an identified asset (for example, the number of 
production units that an item of equipment will be used to produce).
11  An entity shall reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease only if the terms and conditions of the contract 
are changed.
 Separating components of a contract
12  For a contract that is, or contains, a lease, an entity shall account for each lease component within the contract as 
a lease separately from non-lease components of the contract, unless the entity applies the practical expedient in 
paragraph 15. Paragraphs B32–B33 set out guidance on separating components of a contract.
 Lessee
13  For a contract that contains a lease component and one or more additional lease or non-lease components, a lessee 
shall allocate the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-alone price 
of the lease component and the aggregate stand-alone price of the non-lease components.
14  The relative stand-alone price of lease and non-lease components shall be determined on the basis of the price the 
lessor, or a similar supplier, would charge an entity for that component, or a similar component, separately. If an 
observable stand-alone price is not readily available, the lessee shall estimate the stand-alone price, maximising the 
use of observable information.
15  As a practical expedient, a lessee may elect, by class of underlying asset, not to separate non-lease components 
from lease components, and instead account for each lease component and any associated non-lease components 
as a single lease component. A lessee shall not apply this practical expedient to embedded derivatives that meet the 
criteria in paragraph 4.3.3 of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
6A
16  Unless the practical expedient in paragraph 15 is applied, a lessee shall account for non-lease components applying 
other applicable Standards.
 Lessor
17  For a contract that contains a lease component and one or more additional lease or non-lease components, a lessor 
shall allocate the consideration in the contract applying paragraphs 73–90 of SLFRS 15.
Lease term (paragraphs B34–B41)
18  An entity shall determine the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both:
(a)  periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option; 
and
(b)  periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that 
option.
19  In assessing whether a lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an 
option to terminate a lease, an entity shall consider all relevant facts and circumstances that create an economic 
incentive for the lessee to exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease, 
as described in paragraphs B37–B40.
20  A lessee shall reassess whether it is reasonably certain to exercise an extension option, or not to exercise a 
termination option, upon the occurrence of either asignificant event or a significant change in circumstances that:
(a)  is within the control of the lessee; and
(b)  affects whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option not previously included in its determination 
of the lease term, or not to exercise an option previously included in its determination of the lease term (as 
described in paragraph B41).
21  An entity shall revise the lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable period of a lease. For example, the 
non-cancellable period of a lease will change if:
(a)  the lessee exercises an option not previously included in the entity’s determination of the lease term;
(b)  the lessee does not exercise an option previously included in the entity’s determination of the lease term;
(c)  an event occurs that contractually obliges the lessee to exercise an option not previously included in the 
entity’s determination of the lease term;or
(d)  an event occurs that contractually prohibits the lessee from exercising an option previously included in the 
entity’s determination of the lease term.
Lessee
 Recognition
22  At the commencement date, a lessee shall recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
7A
 Measurement
Initial measurement
 Initial measurement of the right-of-use asset
23  At the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset at cost.
 
24  The cost of the right-of-use asset shall comprise:
(a)  the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability, as described in paragraph 26;
(b)  any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received;
(c)  any initial direct costs incurred by the lessee; and
(d)  an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset, restoring 
the site on which it is located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and 
conditions of the lease, unless those costs are incurred to produce inventories. The lessee incurs the obligation 
for those costs either at the commencement date or as a consequence of having used the underlying asset 
during a particular period.
25  A lessee shall recognise the costs described in paragraph 24(d) as part of the cost of the right-of-use asset when 
it incurs an obligation for those costs. A lessee applies LKAS 2 Inventories to costs that are incurred during a 
particular period as a consequence of having used the right-of-use asset to produce inventories during that period. 
The obligations for such costs accounted for applying this Standard or LKAS 2 are recognised and measured 
applying LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
 Initial measurement of the lease liability
26  At the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the lease liability at the present value of the lease payments 
that are not paid at that date. The lease payments shall be discounted using the interest rate implicit in the 
lease, if that rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee shall use 
the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate.
27  At the commencement date, the lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise 
the following payments for the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term that are not paid at the 
commencement date:
(a)  fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments as described inparagraph B42), less any lease 
incentives receivable;
(b)  variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the 
commencement date (as described in paragraph 28);
(c)  amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
 
(d)  the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option (assessed 
considering the factors described in paragraphs B37–B40); and
(e) payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to 
terminate the lease.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
8A
28  Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate described in paragraph 27(b) include, for example, 
payments linked to a consumer price index, payments linked to a benchmark interest rate (such as LIBOR) or 
payments that vary to reflect changes in market rental rates.
 Subsequent measurement
 Subsequent measurement of the right-of-use asset
29  After the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset applying a cost model, unless it 
applies either of the measurement models described in paragraphs 34 and 35.
 Cost model
30  To apply a cost model, a lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset at cost:
(a)  less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses; and
(b)  adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability specified inparagraph 36(c).
31  A lessee shall apply the depreciation requirements in LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment in depreciating the 
right-of-use asset, subject to the requirements in paragraph 32.
32  If the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term or if the cost of the 
right-of-use asset reflects that the lessee will exercise a purchase option, the lessee shall depreciate the right-of-use 
asset from the commencement date to the end of the useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise, the lessee shall 
depreciate the right-of-use asset from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-
of-use asset or the end of the lease term.
33  A lessee shall apply LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets to determine whether the right-of-use asset is impaired and to 
account for any impairment loss identified.
 Other measurement models
34  If a lessee applies the fair value model in LKAS 40 Investment Property to its investment property, the lessee shall 
also apply that fair value model to right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment property in LKAS 40.
35  If right-of-use assets relate to a class of property, plant and equipment to which the lessee applies the revaluation 
model in LKAS 16, a lessee may elect to apply that revaluation model to all of the right-of-use assets that relate to 
that class of property, plant and equipment.
 Subsequent measurement of the lease liability
36  After the commencement date, a lessee shall measure the lease liability by:
(a)  increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability;
(b)  reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made; and
(c)  remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications specified in 
paragraphs 39–46, or to reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments (see paragraph B42).
37  Interest on the lease liability in each period during the lease term shall be the amount that produces a constant 
periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the lease liability. The periodic rate of interest is the discount 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
9A
rate described in paragraph 26, or if applicable the revised discount rate described in paragraph 41, paragraph 43 or 
paragraph 45(c).
38  After the commencement date, a lessee shall recognise in profit or loss, unlessthe costs are included in the carrying 
amount of another asset applying other applicable Standards, both:
(a)  interest on the lease liability; and
(b)  variable lease payments not included in the measurement of the lease liability in the period in which the 
event or condition that triggers those payments occurs.
 Reassessment of the lease liability
39  After the commencement date, a lessee shall apply paragraphs 40–43 to remeasure the lease liability to reflect 
changes to the lease payments. A lessee shall recognise the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an 
adjustment to the right-of-use asset. However, if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is reduced to zero and 
there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, a lessee shall recognise any remaining amount 
of the remeasurement in profit or loss.
40  A lessee shall remeasure the lease liability by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate, 
if either:
(a)  there is a change in the lease term, as described in paragraphs 20–21. Alessee shall determine the revised 
lease payments on the basis of the revised lease term; or
(b)  there is a change in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset, assessed considering the 
events and circumstances described in paragraphs 20–21 in the context of a purchase option. A lessee shall 
determine the revised lease payments to reflect the change in amounts payable under the purchase option.
41  In applying paragraph 40, a lessee shall determine the revised discount rate as the interest rate implicit in the lease 
for the remainder of the lease term, if that rate can be readily determined, or the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate 
at the date of reassessment, if the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined.
42  A lessee shall remeasure the lease liability by discounting the revised lease payments, if either:
(a)  there is a change in the amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee. A lessee shall 
determine the revised lease payments toreflect the change in amounts expected to be payable under the 
residual value guarantee.
(b)  there is a change in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or a rate used to determine 
those payments, including for example a change to reflect changes in market rental rates following a market 
rent review. The lessee shall remeasure the lease liability to reflect those revised lease payments only when 
there is a change in the cash flows (ie when the adjustment to the lease payments takes effect). A lessee shall 
determine the revised lease payments for the remainder of the lease term based on the revised contractual 
payments.
43  In applying paragraph 42, a lessee shall use an unchanged discount rate, unless the change in lease payments results 
from a change in floating interest rates. Inthat case, the lessee shall use a revised discount rate that reflects changes 
in the interest rate.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
10A
 Lease modifications
44  A lessee shall account for a lease modification as a separate lease if both:
(a)  the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more underlying assets; 
and
(b)  the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate with the stand-alone price for the 
increase in scope and any appropriate adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of 
the particular contract.
45  For a lease modification that is not accounted for as a separate lease, at the effective date of the lease modification 
a lessee shall:
(a)  allocate the consideration in the modified contract applying paragraphs13–16;
(b)  determine the lease term of the modified lease applying paragraphs18–19; and
(c) remeasure the lease liability by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate. The 
revised discount rate is determined as the interest rate implicit in the lease for the remainder of the lease 
term,if that rate can be readily determined, or the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the effective date of 
the modification, if the interestrate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined.
46  For a lease modification that is not accounted for as a separate lease, the lessee shall account for the remeasurement 
of the lease liability by:
(a)  decreasing the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset to reflect the partial or full termination of the lease 
for lease modifications that decrease the scope of the lease. The lessee shall recognise in profit or loss any 
gain or loss relating to the partial or full termination of the lease.
(b)  making a corresponding adjustment to the right-of-use asset for all other lease modifications.
 Presentation
47  A lessee shall either present in the statement of financial position, or disclose in the notes:
(a)  right-of-use assets separately from other assets. If a lessee does not present right-of-use assets separately in 
the statement of financial position, the lessee shall:
(i)  include right-of-use assets within the same line item as that within which the corresponding underlying 
assets would be presented if they were owned; and
(ii)  disclose which line items in the statement of financial position include those right-of-use assets.
(b)  lease liabilities separately from other liabilities. If the lessee does not present lease liabilities separately in 
the statement of financial position, the lessee shall disclose which line items in the statement of financial 
position include those liabilities.
48  The requirement in paragraph 47(a) does not apply to right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment 
property, which shall be presented in the statement of financial position as investment property.
49  In the statement of profit or loss and other compre hensive income, a lessee shall present interest expense on the 
lease liability separately from the depreciation charge for the right-of-use asset. Interest expense on the lease 
liability is acomponent of finance costs, which paragraph 82(b) of LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
requires to be presented separately in the statement of profitor loss and other comprehensive income.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
11A
50  In the statement of cash flows, a lessee shall classify:
(a)  cash payments for the principal portion of the lease liability within financing activities;
(b)  cash payments for the interest portion of the lease liability applying the requirements in LKAS 7 Statement 
of Cash Flows for interest paid; and
(c)  short-term lease payments, payments for leases of low-value assets and variable lease payments not included 
in the measurement of the lease liability within operating activities.
 Disclosure
51  The objective of the disclosures is for lessees to disclose information in the notes that, together with the 
information provided in the statement of financial position, statement of profit or loss and statement of 
cash flows, gives a basis for users of financial statements to assess the effect that leases have on the financial 
position, financial performance and cash flows of the lessee. Paragraphs 52–60 specify requirements on how 
to meet this objective.
52  A lessee shall disclose information about its leases for which it is a lessee in asingle note or separate section in its 
financial statements. However, a lessee need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere in the 
financial statements, provided that the information is incorporated by cross-reference in the single note or separate 
section about leases.
53  A lessee shall disclose the following amounts for the reporting period:
(a)  depreciation charge for right-of-use assets by class of underlying asset;
(b)  interest expense on lease liabilities;
(c)  the expense relating to short-term leases accounted for applying paragraph 6. This expense need not include 
the expense relating to leases with a lease term of one month or less;
(d)  the expense relating to leases of low-value assets accounted for applying paragraph 6. This expense shall not 
include the expense relating to short-term leases of low-value assets included in paragraph 53(c);
(e)  the expense relating to variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities;
(f) income from subleasing right-of-use assets;
(g)  total cash outflow for leases;
(h)  additions to right-of-use assets;
(i)  gains or losses arising from sale and lease back transactions; and
(j)  the carrying amount of right-of-use assets at the end of the reporting period by class of underlying asset.
54  A lessee shall provide the disclosures specified in paragraph 53 in a tabular format, unless another format is more 
appropriate. The amounts disclosed shall include costs that a lessee has included in the carrying amount of another 
asset during the reporting period.
55  A lessee shall disclose the amount of its lease commitments for short-term leases accounted for applying paragraph 
6 if the portfolio of short-term leases to whichit is committed at the end of the reporting period is dissimilar to the 
portfolio of short-term leases to which the short-term lease expense disclosed applying paragraph 53(c) relates.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
12A
56  If right-of-use assets meet the definition of investment property, a lessee shall apply the disclosure requirements in 
LKAS 40. In that case, a lessee is not required to provide the disclosures in paragraph 53(a), (f), (h) or (j) for those 
right-of-use assets.
57  If a lessee measures right-of-use assets at revalued amounts applying LKAS 16, the lessee shall disclose the 
information required by paragraph 77 of LKAS 16 for those right-of-use assets.
58  A lessee shall disclose a maturity analysis of lease liabilities applying paragraphs 39 and B11 of SLFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures separately from the maturity analyses of other financial liabilities.
59  In addition to the disclosures required in paragraphs 53–58, a lessee shall disclose additional qualitative and 
quantitative information about its leasing activities necessary to meet the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 (as 
described in paragraph B48). This additional information may include, but is not limited to, information that helps 
users of financial statements to assess:
(a) the nature of the lessee’s leasing activities;
(b)  future cash outflows to which the lessee is potentially exposed that are not reflected in the measurement of 
lease liabilities. This includes exposure arising from:
 (i)  variable lease payments (as described in paragraph B49),
 (ii)  extension options and termination options (as described in paragraph B50),
 (iii)  residual value guarantees (as described in paragraph B51), and
 
 (iv)  leases not yet commenced to which the lessee is committed ;
(c) restrictions or covenants imposed by leases; and
(d)  sale and leaseback transactions (as described in paragraph B52).
60  A lessee that accounts for short-term leases or leases of low-value assets applying paragraph 6 shall disclose that 
fact.
Lessor
 Classification of leases (paragraphs B53–B58)
61  A lessor shall classify each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease.
62  A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to 
ownership of an underlying asset. A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer substantially 
all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset.
63  Whether a lease is a finance lease or an operating lease depends on the substance of the transaction rather than the 
form of the contract. Examples of situations that individually or in combination would normally lead to a lease 
being classified as a finance lease are:
(a)  the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the lessee by the end of the lease term;
(b)  the lessee has the option to purchase the underlying asset at a price that is expected to be sufficiently lower 
than the fair value at the date the option becomes exercisable for it to be reasonably certain, at the inception 
date, that the option will be exercised;

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
13A
(c)  the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the underlying asset even if title is not transferred;
(d)  at the inception date, the present value of the lease payments amounts to at least substantially all of the fair 
value of the underlying asset; and
(e)  the underlying asset is of such a specialised nature that only the lessee can use it without major modifications.
64  Indicators of situations that individually or in combination could also lead to a lease being classified as a finance 
lease are:
(a)  if the lessee can cancel the lease, the lessor’s losses associated with the cancellation are borne by the lessee;
(b)  gains or losses from the fluctuation in the fair value of the residual accrue to the lessee (for example, in the 
form of a rent rebate equaling most of the sales proceeds at the end of the lease); and
(c)  the lessee has the ability to continue the lease for a secondary period at a rent that is substantially lower than 
market rent.
65  The examples and indicators in paragraphs 63–64 are not always conclusive. If it is clear from other features that 
the lease does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset, 
the lease is classified as an operating lease. For example, this may be the case if ownership of the underlying asset 
transfers at the end of the lease for a variable payment equal to its then fair value, or if there are variable lease 
payments, as a result of which the lessor does not transfer substantially all such risks and rewards.
66  Lease classification is made at the inception date and is reassessed only if there is a lease modification. Changes in 
estimates (for example, changes in estimates of the economic life or of the residual value of the underlying asset), 
or changes in circumstances (for example, default by the lessee), do not give rise to a new classification of a lease 
for accounting purposes.
 
Finance leases
 Recognition and measurement
67  At the commencement date, a lessor shall recognise assets held under a finance lease in its statement of 
financial position and present them as a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease.
 Initial measurement
68  The lessor shall use the interest rate implicit in the lease to measure the net investment in the lease. In the case of 
a sublease, if the interest rate implicit in the sublease cannot be readily determined, an intermediate lessor may 
use the discount rate used for the head lease (adjusted for any initial direct costs associated with the sublease) to 
measure the net investment in the sublease.
69  Initial direct costs, other than those incurred by manufacturer or dealer lessors, are included in the initial measurement 
of the net investment in the lease and reduce the amount of income recognised over the lease term. The interest 
rate implicit in the lease is defined in such a way that the initial direct costs are included automatically in the net 
investment in the lease; there is no need to add them separately.
 Initial measurement of the lease payments included in the net investment in the lease
70  At the commencement date, the lease payments included in the measurement of the net investment in the lease 
comprise the following payments for the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term that are not received 
at the commencement date:

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
14A
(a)  fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments as described in paragraph B42), less any lease 
incentives payable;
(b)  variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the 
commencement date;
(c)  any residual value guarantees provided to the lessor by the lessee, a party related to the lessee or a third party 
unrelated to the lessor that is financially capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee;
(d)  the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option (assessed 
considering the factors described in paragraph B37); and
(e)  payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to 
terminate the lease.
 Manufacturer or dealer lessors
71  At the commencement date, a manufacturer or dealer lessor shall recognise the following for each of its finance 
leases:
(a)  revenue being the fair value of the underlying asset, or, if lower, the present value of the lease payments 
accruing to the lessor, discounted using a market rate of interest;
(b)  the cost of sale being the cost, or carrying amount if different, of the underlying asset less the present value 
of the unguaranteed residual value; and
(c)  selling profit or loss (being the difference between revenue and the cost of sale) in accordance with its policy 
for outright sales to which SLFRS 15 applies. A manufacturer or dealer lessor shall recognise selling profit or 
loss on a finance lease at the commencement date, regardless of whether the lessor transfers the underlying 
asset as described in SLFRS 15.
72  Manufacturers or dealers often offer to customers the choice of either buying or leasing an asset. A finance lease 
of an asset by a manufacturer or dealer lessor gives rise to profit or loss equivalent to the profit or loss resulting 
from an outright sale of the underlying asset, at normal selling prices, reflecting any applicable volume or trade 
discounts.
73  Manufacturer or dealer lessors sometimes quote artificially low rates of interest in order to attract customers. The 
use of such a rate would result in a less or recognising an excessive portion of the total income from the transaction 
at the commencement date. If artificially low rates of interest are quoted, a manufacturer or dealer lessor shall 
restrict selling profit to that which would apply if a market rate of interest were charged.
74  A manufacturer or dealer lessor shall recognise as an expense costs incurred in connection with obtaining a finance 
lease at the commencement date because they are mainly related to earning the manufacturer or dealer’s selling 
profit. Costs incurred by manufacturer or dealer lessors in connection with obtaining a finance lease are excluded 
from the definition of initial direct costs and, thus, are excluded from the net investment in the lease.
 Subsequent measurement
75  A lessor shall recognise finance income over the lease term, based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic 
rate of return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease.
76  A lessor aims to allocate finance income over the lease term on a systematic and rational basis. A lessor shall apply 
the lease payments relating to the period against the gross investment in the lease to reduce both the principal and 
the unearned finance income.
77  A lessor shall apply the derecognition and impairment requirements in SLFRS 9 to the net investment in the lease. 
A lessor shall review regularly estimated unguaranteed residual values used in computing the gross investment 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
15A
in the lease. If there has been a reduction in the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the lessor shall revise the 
income allocation over the lease term and recognise immediately any reduction in respect of amounts accrued.
78  A lessor that classifies an asset under a finance lease as held for sale (or includes it in a disposal group that is 
classified as held for sale) applying SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations shall 
account for the asset in accordance with that Standard.
 Lease modifications
79  A lessor shall account for a modification to a finance lease as a separate lease if both:
(a)  the modification increases the scope of the lease by adding the right to use one or more underlying assets; 
and
(b)  the consideration for the lease increases by an amount commensurate with the stand-alone price for the 
increase in scope and any appropriate adjustments to that stand-alone price to reflect the circumstances of 
the particular contract.
80  For a modification to a finance lease that is not accounted for as a separate lease, a lessor shall account for the 
modification as follows:
(a)  if the lease would have been classified as an operating lease had the modification been in effect at the 
inception date, the lessor shall:
 (i)  account for the lease modification as a new lease from the effective date of the modification; and
 (ii)  measure the carrying amount of the underlying asset as the net investment in the lease immediately 
before the effective date of the lease modification.
(b)  otherwise, the lessor shall apply the requirements of SLFRS 9.
 
Operating leases
 Recognition and measurement
81  A lessor shall recognise lease payments from operating leases as income on either a straight-line basis or 
another systematic basis. The lessor shall apply another systematic basis if that basis is more representative 
of the pattern in which benefit from the use of the underlying asset is diminished.
82  A lessor shall recognise costs, including depreciation, incurred in earning the lease income as an expense.
83  A lessor shall add initial direct costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease to the carrying amount of the underlying 
asset and recognise those costs as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income.
84  The depreciation policy for depreciable underlying assets subject to operating leases shall be consistent with the 
lessor’s normal depreciation policy for similar assets. A lessor shall calculate depreciation in accordance with 
LKAS 16 and LKAS 38.
85  A lessor shall apply LKAS 36 to determine whether an underlying asset subject to an operating lease is impaired 
and to account for any impairment loss identified.
86  A manufacturer or dealer lessor does not recognise any selling profit on entering into an operating lease because it 
is not the equivalent of a sale.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
16A
 Lease modifications
87  A lessor shall account for a modification to an operating lease as a new lease from the effective date of the 
modification, considering any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to the original lease as part of the lease 
payments for the new lease.
 Presentation
88  A lessor shall present underlying assets subject to operating leases in its statement of financial position according 
to the nature of the underlying asset.
 
Disclosure
89  The objective of the disclosures is for lessors to disclose information in the notes that, together with the 
information provided in the statement of financial position, statement of profit or loss and statement of 
cash flows, gives a basis for users of financial statements to assess the effect that leases have on the financial 
position, financial performance and cash flows of the lessor. Paragraphs 90–97 specify requirements on how 
to meet this objective.
90  A lessor shall disclose the following amounts for the reporting period:
(a)  for finance leases:
 (i)  selling profit or loss;
 (ii)  finance income on the net investment in the lease; and
 
 (iii)  income relating to variable lease payments not included in the measurement of the net investment in 
the lease.
(b)  for operating leases, lease income, separately disclosing income relating to variable lease payments that do 
not depend on an index or a rate.
91  A lessor shall provide the disclosures specified in paragraph 90 in a tabular format, unless another format is more 
appropriate.
92  A lessor shall disclose additional qualitative and quantitative information about its leasing activities necessary 
to meet the disclosure objective in paragraph 89.  This additional information includes, but is not limited to, 
information that helps users of financial statements to assess:
(a)  the nature of the lessor’s leasing activities; and
(b)  how the lessor manages the risk associated with any rights it retains in underlying assets. In particular, a 
lessor shall disclose its risk management strategy for the rights it retains in underlying assets,  including any 
means by which the lessor reduces that risk. Such means may include, for example, buy-back agreements, 
residual value guarantees or variable lease payments for use in excess of specified limits.
 Finance leases
93  A lessor shall provide a qualitative and quantitative explanation of the significant changes in the carrying amount 
of the net investment in finance leases.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
17A
94  A lessor shall disclose a maturity analysis of the lease payments receivable, showing the undiscounted lease 
payments to be received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and a total of the amounts 
for the remaining years. A lessor shall reconcile the undiscounted lease payments to the net investment in the lease. 
The reconciliation shall identify the unearned finance income relating to the lease payments receivable and any 
discounted unguaranteed residual value.
 Operating leases
95  For items of property, plant and equipment subject to an operating lease, alessor shall apply the disclosure 
requirements of LKAS 16. In applying thedisclosure requirements in LKAS 16, a lessor shall disaggregate each 
class of property, plant and equipment in to assets subject to operating leases and assets not subject to operating 
leases. Accordingly, a lessor shall provide the disclosures required by LKAS 16 for assets subject to an operating 
lease (by class ofunderlying asset) separately from owned assets held and used by the lessor.
96  A lessor shall apply the disclosure requirements in LKAS 36, LKAS 38, LKAS 40 and  LKAS 41 for assets subject 
to operating leases.
97  A lessor shall disclose a maturity analysis of lease payments, showing the undiscounted lease payments to be 
received on an annual basis for a minimum of each of the first five years and a total of the amounts for the remaining 
years.
Sale and leaseback transactions
98  If an entity (the seller-lessee) transfers an asset to another entity (the buyer-lessor) and leases that asset back from 
the buyer-lessor, both the seller-lessee and the buyer-lessor shall account for the transfer contract and the lease 
applying paragraphs 99–103.
 Assessing whether the transfer of the asset is a sale
99  An entity shall apply the requirements for determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in SLFRS 15 to 
determine whether the transfer of an asset is  accounted for as a sale of that asset.
 Transfer of the asset is a sale
100  If the transfer of an asset by the seller-lessee satisfies the requirements of SLFRS 15 to be accounted for as a sale 
of the asset:
(a)  the seller-lessee shall measure the right-of-use asset arising from the leaseback at the proportion of the previous 
carrying amount of the asset that relates to the right of use retained by the seller-lessee. Accordingly,the 
seller-lessee shall recognise only the amount of any gain or loss that relates to the rights transferred to the 
buyer-lessor.
(b)  the buyer-lessor shall account for the purchase of the asset applying applicable Standards, and for the lease 
applying the lessor accounting requirements in this Standard.
101  If the fair value of the consideration for the sale of an asset does not equal the fair value of the asset, or if the 
payments for the lease are not at market rates, anentity shall make the following adjustments to measure the sale 
proceeds at fair value:
(a)  any below-market terms shall be accounted for as a prepayment of lease  payments; and
(b)  any above-market terms shall be accounted for as additional financing provided by the buyer-lessor to the 
seller-lessee.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
18A
102  The entity shall measure any potential adjustment required by paragraph 101on the basis of the more readily 
determinable of:
(a)  the difference between the fair value of the consideration for the sale and the fair value of the asset; and
(b)  the difference between the present value of the contractual payments for the lease and the present value of 
payments for the lease at market rates.
 Transfer of the asset is not a sale
103  If the transfer of an asset by the seller-lessee does not satisfy the requirements of SLFRS 15 to be accounted for as 
a sale of the asset:
(a)  the seller-lessee shall continue to recognise the transferred asset and shall recognise a financial liability equal 
to the transfer proceeds. It shall account for the financial liability applying SLFRS 9.
(b)  the buyer-lessor shall not recognise the transferred asset and shall recognise a financial asset equal to the 
transfer proceeds. It shall account for the financial asset applying SLFRS 9.
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard.
commencement date of the  The date on which a lessor makes an underlying asset available for use by a lessee. 
lease (commencement date) 
economic life  Either the period over which an asset is expected to be economically usable by one or 
more users or the number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from an 
asset by one or more users.
effective date of the  The date when both parties agree to a lease modification. 
modification 
fair value For the purpose of applying the lessor accounting requirements in this Standard, the amount 
for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, 
willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. 
finance lease A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an 
underlying asset. 
fixed payments Payments made by a lessee to a lessor for the right to use an underlying asset during the 
lease term, excluding variable lease payments. 
gross investment in the lease  The sum of: 
 (a)   the lease payments receivable by a lessor under a finance lease; and
 (b)   any unguaranteed residual value accruing to the lessor.
inception date of the lease  The earlier of the date of a lease agreement and the date of commitment by the parties to 
(inception date) the principal terms and conditions of the lease. 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
19A
Initial direct cost initial direct costs Incremental costs of obtaining a lease that would not have been incurred 
if the lease had not been obtained, except for such costs incurred by a manufacturer or dealer 
lessor in connection with a finance lease.
interest rate implicit in  The rate of interest that causes the present value of 
the lease 
 (a) the lease payments and 
 (b)  the unguaranteed residual value to equal the sum of 
   (i)  the fair value of the underlying asset and 
   (ii)  any initial direct costs of the lessor.
lease A contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to use an asset (the underlying asset) 
for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
lease incentives Payments made by a lessor to a lessee associated with a lease, or the reimbursement or 
assumption by a lessor of costs of a lessee. 
lease modification A change in the scope of a lease, or the consideration for a lease, that was not part of the 
original terms and conditions of the lease (for example, adding or terminating the right to use 
one or more  underlying assets, or extending or shortening the contractual lease term). 
lease payments Payments made by a lessee to a lessor relating to the right to use an underlying asset during 
the lease term, comprising the following: 
(a)  fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives; 
(b)  variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate; 
(c)  the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise 
that option; and 
(d)  payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee 
exercising an option to terminate the lease. 
For the lessee, lease payments also include amounts expected to be payable by the lessee 
under residual value guarantees. Lease payments do not include payments allocated to non-
lease components of a contract, unless the lessee elects to combine non-lease components 
with a lease component and to account for them as a single lease component. 
For the lessor, lease payments also include any residual value guarantees provided to the 
lessor by the lessee, a party related to the lessee or a third party unrelated to the lessor that 
is financially capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee. Lease payments do 
not include payments allocated to non-lease components. 
lease term The non-cancellable period for which a lessee has the right to use an underlying asset, 
together with both: 
(a)  periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to 
exercise that option; and 
(b)  periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not 
to exercise that option. 
lessee An entity that obtains the right to use an underlying asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration. 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
20A
lessee’s incremental  The rate of interest that a lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with
borrowing rate  a similar security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-
use asset in a similar economic environment. 
lessor An entity that provides the right to use an underlying asset for a period of time in exchange 
for consideration. 
net investment in the lease  The gross investment in the lease discounted at the interest rate implicit in the lease. 
operating lease A lease that does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership 
of an underlying asset. 
optional lease payments  Payments to be made by a lessee to a lessor for the right to use an underlying asset during 
periods covered by an option to extend or terminate a lease that are not included in the lease 
term. 
period of use The total period of time that an asset is used to fulfil a contract with a customer (including 
any non-consecutive periods of time). 
residual value guarantee  A guarantee made to a lessor by a party unrelated to the lessor that the value (or part of the 
value) of an underlying asset at the end of a lease will be at least a specified amount. 
right-of-use asset An asset that represents a lessee’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term. 
short-term lease A lease that, at the commencement date, has a lease term of 12 months or less. A lease that 
contains a purchase option is not a short-term lease. 
sublease A transaction for which an underlying asset is re-leased by a lessee (‘intermediate lessor’) 
to a third party, and the lease (‘head lease’) between the head lessor and lessee remains in 
effect. underlying asset An asset that is the subject of a lease, for which the right to use that 
asset has been provided by a lessor to a lessee. 
unearned finance income  The difference between: 
 (a)  the gross investment in the lease; and 
 (b)  the net investment in the lease.  
unguaranteed residual  That portion of the residual value of the underlying asset, the realisation of which by a
value   lessor is not assured or is guaranteed solely by a party related to the lessor. 
variable lease payments  The portion of payments made by a lessee to a lessor for the right to use an underlying asset 
during the lease term that varies because of changes in facts or circumstances occurring 
after the commencement date, other than the passage of time.
Terms defined in other Standards and used in this Standard with the same meaning
contract An agreement between two or more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations.
useful life The period over which an asset is expected to be available for use by an entity; or the number 
of production or similar units expected to be obtained from an asset by an entity. 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
21A
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard. It describes the application of paragraphs 1–103 and has the same 
authority as the other parts of the Standard.
 Portfolio application
B1  This Standard specifies the accounting for an individual lease. However, as apractical expedient, an entity may 
apply this Standard to a portfolio of leases with similar characteristics if the entity reasonably expects that the 
effects on the financial statements of applying this Standard to the portfolio would not differ materially from 
applying this Standard to the individual leases within that portfolio. If accounting for a portfolio, an entity shall use 
estimates and assumptions that reflect the size and composition of the portfolio.
 
Combination of contracts
B2  In applying this Standard, an entity shall combine two or more contracts entered in to at or near the same time with 
the same counterparty (or related parties of the counterparty), and account for the contracts as a single contract if 
one or more of the following criteria are met:
(a)  the contracts are negotiated as a package with an overall commercial objective that cannot be understood 
without considering the contracts together;
(b)  the amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or performance of the other 
contract; or
(c)  the rights to use underlying assets conveyed in the contracts (or some rights to use underlying assets conveyed 
in each of the contracts) form asingle lease component as described in paragraph B32.
 Recognition exemption: leases for which the underlying asset is of low value 
 (paragraphs 5–8)
B3  Except as specified in paragraph B7, this Standard permits a lessee to apply paragraph 6 to account for leases for 
which the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee shall assess the value of an underlying asset based on the value 
of the asset when it is new, regardless of the age of the asset being leased.
B4  The assessment of whether an underlying asset is of low value is performed on an absolute basis. Leases of low-
value assets qualify for the accounting treatment in paragraph 6 regardless of whether those leases are material to 
the lessee. The assessment is not affected by the size, nature or circumstances of the lessee. Accordingly, different 
lessees are expected to reach the same conclusions about whether a particular underlying asset is of low value.
B5  An underlying asset can be of low value only if:
(a)  the lessee can benefit from use of the underlying asset on its own or together with other resources that are 
readily available to the lessee; and
(b)  the underlying asset is not highly dependent on, or highly interrelated with, other assets.
B6  A lease of an underlying asset does not qualify as a lease of a low-value asset if the nature of the asset is such that, 
when new, the asset is typically not of low value. For example, leases of cars would not qualify as leases of low-
value assets because a new car would typically not be of low value.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
22A
B7  If a lessee subleases an asset, or expects to sublease an asset, the head lease does not qualify as a lease of a low-
value asset.
B8 Examples of low-value underlying assets can include tablet and personal computers, small items of office furniture 
and telephones.
 Identifying a lease (paragraphs 9–11)
B9  To assess whether a contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset (see paragraphs B13–B20) 
for a period of time, an entity shall assess whether, throughout the period of use, the customer has both of the 
following:
(a)  the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use ofthe identified asset (as described in 
paragraphs B21–B23); and
(b)  the right to direct the use of the identified asset (as described inparagraphs B24–B30).
B10  If the customer has the right to control the use of an identified asset for only a portion of the term of the contract, 
the contract contains a lease for that portion of the term.
B11  A contract to receive goods or services may be entered into by a joint arrangement, or on behalf of a joint arrangement, 
as defined in SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. In this case, the joint arrangement is considered to be the customer in 
the contract. Accordingly, in assessing whether such a contract contains a lease, an entity shall assess whether the 
joint arrangement has the right to control the use of an identified asset throughout the period of use.
B12  An entity shall assess whether a contract contains a lease for each potential separate lease component. Refer to 
paragraph B32 for guidance on separate lease components.
 Identified asset
B13  An asset is typically identified by being explicitly specified in a contract. However, an asset can also be identified 
by being implicitly specified at the time that the asset is made available for use by the customer.
 Substantive substitution rights
B14  Even if an asset is specified, a customer does not have the right to use an identified asset if the supplier has the 
substantive right to substitute the asset throughout the period of use. A supplier’s right to substitute an asset is 
substantive only if both of the following conditions exist:
(a)  the supplier has the practical ability to substitute alternative assets throughout the period of use (for example, 
the customer cannot prevent the supplier from substituting the asset and alternative assets are readily 
available to the supplier or could be sourced by the supplier within a reasonable period of time); and
(b)  the supplier would benefit economically from the exercise of its right to substitute the asset (ie the economic 
benefits associated with substituting the asset are expected to exceed the costs associated with substituting 
the asset).
B15  If the supplier has a right or an obligation to substitute the asset only on or after either a particular date or the 
occurrence of a specified event, the supplier’s substitution right is not substantive because the supplier does not 
have the practical ability to substitute alternative assets throughout the period of use.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
23A
B16  An entity’s evaluation of whether a supplier’s substitution right is substantive is based on facts and circumstances 
at inception of the contract and shall exclude consideration of future events that, at inception of the contract, are 
not considered likely to occur. Examples of future events that, at inception of the contract, would not be considered 
likely to occur and, thus, should be excluded from the evaluation include:
(a)  an agreement by a future customer to pay an above market rate for useof the asset;
(b)  the introduction of new technology that is not substantially developed at inception of the contract;
(c)  a substantial difference between the customer’s use of the asset, or the performance of the asset, and the use 
or performance considered likely at inception of the contract; and
(d)  a substantial difference between the market price of the asset during the period of use, and the market price 
considered likely at inception of the contract.
B17  If the asset is located at the customer’s premises or elsewhere, the costs associated with substitution are generally 
higher than when located at the supplier’s premises and, therefore, are more likely to exceed the benefits associated 
with substituting the asset.
B18  The supplier’s right or obligation to substitute the asset for repairs and maintenance, if the asset is not operating 
properly or if a technical upgrade becomes available does not preclude the customer from having the right to use 
an identified asset.
B19  If the customer cannot readily determine whether the supplier has a substantive substitution right, the customer 
shall presume that any substitution right is not substantive.
 Portions of assets
B20  A capacity portion of an asset is an identified asset if it is physically distinct (for example, a floor of a building). A 
capacity or other portion of an asset that is not physically distinct (for example, a capacity portion of a fibre optic 
cable) is not an identified asset, unless it represents substantially all of the capacity of the asset and thereby provides 
the customer with the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset.
 
Right to obtain economic benefits from use
B21  To control the use of an identified asset, a customer is required to have the right to obtain substantially all of the 
economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use (for example, by having exclusive use of the 
asset throughout that period).  A customer can obtain economic benefits from use of an asset directly or indirectly in 
many ways, such as by using, holding or sub-leasing the asset. The economic benefits from use of an asset include 
its primary output and by-products (including potential cash flows derived from these items), and other economic 
benefits from using the asset that could be realised from a commercial transaction with a third party.
B22  When assessing the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of an asset, an entity shall 
consider the economic benefits that result from use of the asset within the defined scope of a customer’s right to use 
the asset (see paragraph B30). For example:
(a)  if a contract limits the use of a motor vehicle to only one particular territory during the period of use, an 
entity shall consider only the economic benefits from use of the motor vehicle within that territory, and not 
beyond.
(b)  if a contract specifies that a customer can drive a motor vehicle only upto a particular number of miles during 
the period of use, an entity shall consider only the economic benefits from use of the motor vehicle for the 
permitted mileage, and not beyond.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
24A
B23  If a contract requires a customer to pay the supplier or another party a portion of the cash flows derived from use 
of an asset as consideration, those cash flows paid as consideration shall be considered to be part of the economic 
benefits that the customer obtains from use of the asset. For example, if the customer is required to pay the supplier 
a percentage of sales from use of retail space asconsideration for that use, that requirement does not prevent the 
customer from having the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the retail space. This 
is because the cash flows arising from those sales are considered to be economic benefits that the customer obtains 
from use of the retail space, a portion of which it then pays to the supplier as consideration for the right to use that 
space.
 
Right to direct the use
B24  A customer has the right to direct the use of an identified asset throughout the period of use only if either:
(a)  the customer has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use 
(as described in paragraphs B25–B30); or
(b)  the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used are predetermined and:
 (i)  the customer has the right to operate the asset (or to direct others to operate the asset in a manner 
that it determines) throughout the period of use, without the supplier having the right to change those 
operating instructions; or
 
 (ii)  the customer designed the asset (or specific aspects of the asset) in a way that predetermines how and 
for what purpose the asset will be used throughout the period of use.
 How and for what purpose the asset is used
B25  A customer has the right to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used if,within the scope of its right of use 
defined in the contract, it can change how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use. In 
making this assessment, an entity considers the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and 
for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use. Decision-making rights are relevant when they 
affect the economic benefits to be derived from use. The decision-making rights that are most relevant are likely to 
be different for different contracts, depending on the nature of the asset and the terms and conditions of the contract.
B26  Examples of decision-making rights that, depending on the circumstances, grant the right to change how and for 
what purpose the asset is used, within the defined scope of the customer’s right of use, include:
(a)  rights to change the type of output that is produced by the asset (for example, to decide whether to use a 
shipping container to transport goods or for storage, or to decide upon the mix of products sold from retail 
space);
(b)  rights to change when the output is produced (for example, to decide when an item of machinery or a power 
plant will be used);
(c)  rights to change where the output is produced (for example, to decide upon the destination of a truck or a 
ship, or to decide where an item of equipment is used); and
(d)  rights to change whether the output is produced, and the quantity of that output (for example, to decide 
whether to produce energy from a power plant and how much energy to produce from that power plant).

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
25A
B27  Examples of decision-making rights that do not grant the right to change how and for what purpose the asset is 
used include rights that are limited to operating or maintaining the asset. Such rights can be held by the customer 
or the supplier. Although rights such as those to operate or maintain an asset are often essential to the efficient use 
of an asset, they are not rights to direct how and for what purpose the asset is used and are often dependent on 
the decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used. However, rights to operate an asset may grant the 
customer the right to direct the use of the asset if the relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset 
is used are predetermined (see paragraph B24(b)(i)).
 Decisions determined during and before the period of use
B28  The relevant decisions about how and for what purpose the asset is used can be predetermined in a number of ways. 
For example, the relevant decisions can be predetermined by the design of the asset or by contractual restrictions 
on the use of the asset.
B29  In assessing whether a customer has the right to direct the use of an asset, an entity shall consider only rights to 
make decisions about the use of the asset during the period of use, unless the customer designed the asset (or 
specific aspects of the asset) as described in paragraph B24(b)(ii). Consequently, unless the conditions in paragraph 
B24(b)(ii) exist, an entity shall not consider decisions that are predetermined before the period of use. For example, 
if a customer is able only to specify the output of an asset before the period of use, the customer does not have the 
right to direct the use of that asset. The ability to specify the output in a contract before the period of use, without 
any other decision-making rights relating to the use of the asset, gives a customer the same rights as any customer 
that purchases goods or services.
 Protective rights
B30  A contract may include terms and conditions designed to protect the supplier’s interest in the asset or other assets, 
to protect its personnel, or to ensure the supplier’s compliance with laws or regulations. These are examples of 
protective rights. For example, a contract may (i) specify the maximum amount of use of an asset or limit where or 
when the customer can use the asset, (ii) require a customer to follow particular operating practices, or (iii) require 
acustomer to inform the supplier of changes in how an asset will be used.Protective rights typically define the scope 
of the customer’s right of use but do not, in isolation, prevent the customer from having the right to direct the use 
of an asset.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
26A
NoIs there an identified asset?
Consider paragraphs B13–B20.
Does the customer have the right to obtain
substantially all of the economic benefits from
use of the asset throughout the period of use?
Consider paragraphs B21–B23.
Does the customer, the supplier or neither party
have the right to direct how and for what purpose
the asset is used throughout the period of use?
Consider paragraphs B25–B30.
Does the customer have the right to operate
the asset throughout the period of use,
without the supplier having the right to
change those operating instructions?
Consider paragraph B24(b)(i).
Yes
No
Neither; how and for
what purpose the asset
will be used is
predetermined
Did the customer design the asset in a way that
predetermines how and for what purpose the
asset will be used throughout the period of use?
Consider paragraph B24(b)(ii).
 The contract does not
contain a lease
 The contract contains a
lease
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
B31  The following flow chart may assist entities in making the assessment of whether a contract is, or contains, a lease.
Customer Supplier

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
27A
 Separating components of a contract (paragraphs 12–17)
B32  The right to use an underlying asset is a separate lease component if both:
(a)  the lessee can benefit from use of the underlying asset either on its own or together with other resources that 
are readily available to the lessee. Readily available resources are goods or services that are sold or leased 
separately (by the lessor or other suppliers) or resources that the lessee has already obtained (from the lessor 
or from other transactions or events); and
(b)  the underlying asset is neither highly dependent on, nor highly interrelated with, the other underlying 
assets in the contract. For example, the fact that a lessee could decide not to lease the underlying asset 
without significantly affecting its rights to use other underlying assets in the contract might indicate that the 
underlying asset is not highly dependent on, or highly interrelated with, those other underlying assets.
B33  A contract may include an amount payable by the lessee for activities and costs that do not transfer a good or 
service to the lessee. For example, a lessor may include in the total amount payable a charge for administrative 
tasks, or other costs it incurs associated with the lease, that do not transfer a good or service to the lessee. Such 
amounts payable do not give rise to a separate component of the contract, but are considered to be part of the total 
consideration that is allocated to the separately identified components of the contract.
 Lease term (paragraphs 18–21)
B34  In determining the lease term and assessing the length of the non-cancellable period of a lease, an entity shall apply 
the definition of a contract and determine the period for which the contract is enforceable. A lease is no longer 
enforceable when the lessee and the lessor each has the right to terminate the lease without permission from the 
other party with no more than an insignificant penalty.
B35  If only a lessee has the right to terminate a lease, that right is considered to be an option to terminate the lease 
available to the lessee that an entity considers when determining the lease term. If only a lessor has the right to 
terminate a lease, the non-cancellable period of the lease includes the period covered by the option to terminate the 
lease.
B36  The lease term begins at the commencement date and includes any rent-free periods provided to the lessee by the 
lessor.
B37  At the commencement date, an entity assesses whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option to 
extend the lease or to purchase the underlying asset, or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease. The entity 
considers all relevant facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive for the lessee to exercise, or not to 
exercise, the option, including any expected changes infacts and circumstances from the commencement date until 
the exercise date of the option. Examples of factors to consider include, but are not limited to:
(a)  contractual terms and conditions for the optional periods compared with market rates, such as:
 (i)  the amount of payments for the lease in any optional period;
 (ii)  the amount of any variable payments for the lease or other contingent payments, such as payments 
resulting from termination penalties and residual value guarantees; and
 (iii)  the terms and conditions of any options that are exercisable after initial optional periods (for example, 
a purchase option that is exercisable at the end of an extension period at a rate that is currently below 
market rates).

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
28A
(b)  significant leasehold improvements undertaken (or expected to be undertaken) over the term of the contract 
that are expected to have significant economic benefit for the lessee when the option to extend or terminate 
the lease, or to purchase the underlying asset, becomes exercisable;
(c)  costs relating to the termination of the lease, such as negotiation costs, relocation costs, costs of identifying 
another underlying asset suitable for the lessee’s needs, costs of integrating a new asset into the lessee’s 
operations, or termination penalties and similar costs, including costs associated with returning the underlying 
asset in a contractually specified condition or to a contractually specified location;
(d)  the importance of that underlying asset to the lessee’s operations, considering, for example, whether the 
underlying asset is a specialised asset, the location of the underlying asset and the availability of suitable 
alternatives; and
(e)  conditionality associated with exercising the option (ie when the option can be exercised only if one or more 
conditions are met), and the likelihood that those conditions will exist.
B38  An option to extend or terminate a lease may be combined with one or more other contractual features (for 
example, a residual value guarantee) such that the lessee guarantees the lessor a minimum or fixed cash return 
that is substantially the same regardless of whether the option is exercised. In such cases, and notwithstanding the 
guidance on in-substance fixed payments in paragraph B42, an entity shall assume that the lessee is reasonably 
certain to exercise the option to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease.
B39  The shorter the non-cancellable period of a lease, the more likely a lessee is to exercise an option to extend the lease 
or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease. This is because the costs associated with obtaining a replacement 
asset are likely to be proportionately higher the shorter the non-cancellable period.
B40  A lessee’s past practice regarding the period over which it has typically used particular types of assets (whether 
leased or owned), and its economic reasons for doing so, may provide information that is helpful in assessing 
whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise, or not to exercise, an option. For example, if a lessee has 
typically used particular types of assets for a particular period of time or if the lessee has a practice of frequently 
exercising options on leases of particular types of underlying assets, the lessee shall consider the economic reasons 
for that past practice in assessing whether it is reasonably certain to exercise an option on leases of those assets.
B41  Paragraph 20 specifies that, after the commencement date, a lessee reassesses the lease term upon the occurrence 
of a significant event or a significant change in circumstances that is within the control of the lessee and affects 
whether the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise an option not previously included in its determination of the 
lease term, or not to exercise an option previously included in its determination of the lease term. Examples of 
significant events or changes in circumstances include:
(a)  significant lease hold improvements not anticipated at the commencement date that are expected to have 
significant economic benefit for the lessee when the option to extend or terminate the lease,or to purchase 
the underlying asset, becomes exercisable;
(b)  a significant modification to, or customisation of, the underlying asset that was not anticipated at the 
commencement date;
(c)  the inception of a sublease of the underlying asset for a period beyond the end of the previously determined 
lease term; and
(d)  a business decision of the lessee that is directly relevant to exercising, or not exercising, an option (for 
example, a decision to extend the lease of a complementary asset, to dispose of an alternative asset or to 
dispose of a business unit within which the right-of-use asset is employed).

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
29A
 In-substance fixed lease payments (paragraphs 27(a),36(c) and 70(a))
B42  Lease payments include any in-substance fixed lease payments. In-substance fixed lease payments are payments 
that may, in form, contain variability but that, in substance, are unavoidable. In-substance fixed lease payments 
exist, for example, if:
(a)  payments are structured as variable lease payments, but there is no genuine variability in those payments. 
Those payments contain variable clauses that do not have real economic substance. Examples of those types 
of payments include:
 (i)  payments that must be made only if an asset is proven to be capable of operating during the lease, or 
only if an event occurs that has no genuine possibility of not occurring; or
 (ii)  payments that are initially structured as variable lease payments linked to the use of the underlying 
asset but for which the variability will be resolved at some point after the commencement date so that 
the payments become fixed for the remainder of the lease term. Those payments become in-substance 
fixed payments when the variability is resolved.
(b)  there is more than one set of payments that a lessee could make, but only one of those sets of payments is 
realistic. In this case, an entity shall consider the realistic set of payments to be lease payments.
(c)  there is more than one realistic set of payments that a lessee could make,but it must make at least one of 
those sets of payments. In this case, an entity shall consider the set of payments that aggregates to the lowest 
amount (on a discounted basis) to be lease payments.
 
Lessee involvement with the underlying asset before the commencement date
 Costs of the lessee relating to the construction or design of the underlying asset
B43  An entity may negotiate a lease before the underlying asset is available for use by the lessee. For some leases, 
the underlying asset may need to be constructed or redesigned for use by the lessee. Depending on the terms and 
conditions of the contract, a lessee may be required to make payments relating to the construction or design of the 
asset.
B44  If a lessee incurs costs relating to the construction or design of an underlying asset, the lessee shall account for 
those costs applying other applicable Standards, such as LKAS 16. Costs relating to the construction or design of 
an underlying asset do not include payments made by the lessee for the right to use the underlying asset. Payments 
for the right to use an underlying asset are payments for a lease, regardless of the timing of those payments.
 Legal title to the underlying asset
B45  A lessee may obtain legal title to an underlying asset before that legal title is transferred to the lessor and the asset 
is leased to the lessee. Obtaining legal title does not in itself determine how to account for the transaction.
B46  If the lessee controls (or obtains control of) the underlying asset before that asset is transferred to the lessor, the 
transaction is a sale and lease back transaction that is accounted for applying paragraphs 98–103.
B47  However, if the lessee does not obtain control of the underlying asset before the asset is transferred to the lessor, 
the transaction is not a sale and leaseback transaction. For example, this may be the case if a manufacturer, a lessor 
and a lessee negotiate a transaction for the purchase of an asset from the manufacturer by the lessor, which is in turn 
leased to the lessee. The lessee may obtain legal title to the underlying asset before legal title transfers to the lessor.
In this case, if the lessee obtains legal title to the underlying asset but does not obtain control of the asset before it 
is transferred to the lessor, the transaction is not accounted for as a sale and lease back transaction, but as a lease.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
30A
 Lessee disclosures (paragraph 59)
B48  In determining whether additional information about leasing activities is necessary to meet the disclosure objective 
in paragraph 51, a lessee shall consider:
(a)  whether that information is relevant to users of financial statements. A lessee shall provide additional 
information specified in paragraph 59 only if that information is expected to be relevant to users of financial 
statements. In this context, this is likely to be the case if it helps those users to understand:
 (i)  the flexibility provided by leases. Leases may provide flexibility if, for example, a lessee can reduce its 
exposure by exercising termination options or renewing leases with favourable terms and conditions.
 (ii)  restrictions imposed by leases. Leases may impose restrictions,for example, by requiring the lessee to 
maintain particular financial ratios.
 (iii)  sensitivity of reported information to key variables. Reported information may be sensitive to, for 
example, future variable lease payments.
 (iv)  exposure to other risks arising from leases.
 (v)  deviations from industry practice. Such deviations may include,for example, unusual or unique lease 
terms and conditions that affect a lessee’s lease portfolio.
(b)  whether that information is apparent from information either presented in the primary financial statements 
or disclosed in the notes. A lessee need not duplicate information that is already presented elsewhere in the 
financial statements.
B49  Additional information relating to variable lease payments that, depending on the circumstances, may be needed to 
satisfy the disclosure objective inparagraph 51 could include information that helps users of financial statements to 
assess, for example:
(a)  the lessee’s reasons for using variable lease payments and the prevalence of those payments;
(b)  the relative magnitude of variable lease payments to fixed payments;
(c)  key variables upon which variable lease payments depend and how payments are expected to vary in 
response to changes in those keyvariables; and
(d)  other operational and financial effects of variable lease payments.
B50  Additional information relating to extension options or termination options that, depending on the circumstances, 
may be needed to satisfy the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 could include information that helps users of 
financial statements to assess, for example:
(a)  the lessee’s reasons for using extension options or termination options and the prevalence of those options;
(b)  the relative magnitude of optional lease payments to lease payments;
(c)  the prevalence of the exercise of options that were not included in the measurement of lease liabilities; and
(d)  other operational and financial effects of those options.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
31A
B51  Additional information relating to residual value guarantees that, depending on the circumstances, may be needed 
to satisfy the disclosure objective inparagraph 51 could include information that helps users of financial statements 
to assess, for example:
(a)  the lessee’s reasons for providing residual value guarantees and the prevalence of those guarantees;
(b)  the magnitude of a lessee’s exposure to residual value risk;
(c)  the nature of underlying assets for which those guarantees are provided;and
(d)  other operational and financial effects of those guarantees.
B52  Additional information relating to sale and leaseback transactions that, depending on the circumstances, may be 
needed to satisfy the disclosure objective in paragraph 51 could include information that helps users of financial 
statements to assess, for example:
(a)  the lessee’s reasons for sale and leaseback transactions and the prevalence of those transactions;
(b)  key terms and conditions of individual sale and lease back transactions;
(c)  payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities; and
(d)  the cash flow effect of sale and leaseback transactions in the reporting period.
 Lessor lease classification (paragraphs 61–66)
B53  The classification of leases for lessors in this Standard is based on the extent to which the lease transfers the 
risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset. Risks include the possibilities of losses from 
idle capacity or technological obsolescence and of variations in return because of changing economic conditions. 
Rewards may be represented by the expectation of profitable operation over the underlying asset’s economic life 
and of gain from appreciation in value or realisation of a residual value.
B54  A lease contract may include terms and conditions to adjust the lease payments for particular changes that occur 
between the inception date and the commencement date (such as a change in the lessor’s cost of the underlying 
asset or a change in the lessor’s cost of financing the lease). In that case, for the purposes of classifying the lease, 
the effect of any such changes shall be deemed to have taken place at the inception date.
B55  When a lease includes both land and buildings elements, a lessor shall assess the classification of each element as 
a finance lease or an operating lease separately applying paragraphs 62–66 and B53–B54. In determining whether 
the land element is an operating lease or a finance lease, an important consideration is that land normally has an 
indefinite economic life.
B56  Whenever necessary in order to classify and account for a lease of land and buildings, a lessor shall allocate lease 
payments (including any lump-sumup front payments) between the land and the buildings elements in proportion 
to the relative fair values of the leasehold interests in the land element and buildings element of the lease at the 
inception date. If the lease payments cannot be allocated reliably between these two elements, the entire lease is 
classified as a finance lease, unless it is clear that both elements are operating leases, in which case the entire lease 
is classified as an operating lease.
B57  For a lease of land and buildings in which the amount for the land element is immaterial to the lease, a lessor may 
treat the land and buildings as a single unit for the purpose of lease classification and classify it as a finance lease 
or an operating lease applying paragraphs 62–66 and B53–B54. In such a case, a lessor shall regard the economic 
life of the buildings as the economic life of the entire underlying asset.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
32A
 Sublease classification
B58  In classifying a sub lease, an intermediate lessor shall classify the sublease as a finance lease or an operating lease 
as follows:
(a)  if the head lease is a short-term lease that the entity, as a lessee, has accounted for applying paragraph 6, the 
sublease shall be classified as an operating lease.
(b)  otherwise, the sublease shall be classified by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, 
rather than by reference to the underlying asset (for example, the item of property, plant or equipment that is 
the subject of the lease).

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
33A
Appendix C
Effective date and transition
This appendix is an integral part of the Standard and has the same authority as the other parts of the Standard.
Effective date
C1  An entity shall apply this Standard for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. Earlier 
application is permitted for entities that apply SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers at or before the 
date of initial application of this Standard. If an entity applies this Standard earlier, it shall disclose that fact.
Transition
C2  For the purposes of the requirements in paragraphs C1–C19, the date of initial application is the beginning of the 
annual reporting period in which an entity first applies this Standard.
 Definition of a lease
C3  As a practical expedient, an entity is not required to reassess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the date 
of initial application. Instead, the entity is permitted:
(a)  to apply this Standard to contracts that were previously identified as leases applying LKAS 17 Leases 
and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease. The entity shall apply the transition 
requirements in paragraphs C5–C18 to those leases.
(b)  not to apply this Standard to contracts that were not previously identified as containing a lease applying 
LKAS 17 and IFRIC 4.
C4  If an entity chooses the practical expedient in paragraph C3, it shall disclose that fact and apply the practical 
expedient to all of its contracts. As a result, the entity shall apply the requirements in paragraphs 9–11 only to 
contracts entered into (or changed) on or after the date of initial application.
 
Lessees
C5  A lessee shall apply this Standard to its leases either:
(a)  retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented applying LKAS 8Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors; or
(b)  retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the Standard recognised at the date of initial 
application in accordance with paragraphs C7–C13.
C6  A lessee shall apply the election described in paragraph C5 consistently to all of its leases in which it is a lessee.
C7  If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), the lessee shall not restate comparative 
information. Instead, the lessee shall recognise the cumulative effect of initially applying this Standard as an 
adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) at the date of 
initial application.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
34A
 Leases previously classified as operating leases
C8  If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), the lessee shall:
(a)  recognise a lease liability at the date of initial application for leases previously classified as an operating 
lease applying LKAS 17. The lessee shall measure that lease liability at the present value of the remaining 
lease payments, discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application.
(b)  recognise a right-of-use asset at the date of initial application for leases previously classified as an operating 
lease applying LKAS 17. The lessee shall choose, on a lease-by-lease basis, to measure that right-of-use 
asset at either:
 (i)  its carrying amount as if the Standard had been applied since the commencement date, but discounted 
using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application; or
 (ii)  an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments 
relating to that lease recognised in the statement of financial position immediately before the date of 
initial application.
(c)  apply LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets to right-of-use assets at the date of initial application, unless the lessee 
applies the practical expedient inparagraph C10(b).
C9  Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph C8, for leases previously classified as operating leases applying 
LKAS 17, a lessee:
(a)  is not required to make any adjustments on transition for leases for which the underlying asset is of low value 
(as described in paragraphsB3–B8) that will be accounted for applying paragraph 6. The lessee shall account 
for those leases applying this Standard from the date of initial application.
(b)  is not required to make any adjustments on transition for leases previously accounted for as investment 
property using the fair value model in LKAS 40 Investment Property. The lessee shall account for the right-
of-use asset and the lease liability arising from those leases applying LKAS 40 and this Standard from the 
date of initial application.
(c)  shall measure the right-of-use asset at fair value at the date of initial application for leases previously accounted 
for as operating leases applying LKAS 17 and that will be accounted for as investment propertyusing the fair 
value model in LKAS 40 from the date of initial application.
 The lessee shall account for the right-of-use asset and the lease liability arising from those leases applying LKAS 
40 and this Standard from thedate of initial application.
C10  A lessee may use one or more of the following practical expedients when applying this Standard retrospectively in 
accordance with paragraph C5(b) toleases previously classified as operating leases applying LKAS 17.  A lessee is 
permitted to apply these practical expedients on a lease-by-lease basis:
(a)  a lessee may apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics (such 
as leases with a similar remaining lease term for a similar class of underlying asset in a similar economic 
environment).
(b)  a lessee may rely on its assessment of whether leases are onerous applying LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets immediately before the date of initial application as an alternative 
to performing an impairment review. If a lessee chooses this practical expedient, the lessee shall adjust 
the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application by the amount of any provision for onerous leases 
recognised in the statement of financial position immediately before the date of initial application.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
35A
(c)  a lessee may elect not to apply the requirements in paragraph C8 to leases for which the lease term ends 
within 12 months of the date ofinitial application. In this case, a lessee shall:
 (i)  account for those leases in the same way as short-term leases as described in paragraph 6; and
 (ii)  include the cost associated with those leases within the disclosure of short-term lease expense in the 
annual reporting period that includes the date of initial application.
(d)  a lessee may exclude initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial 
application.
(e)  a lessee may use hindsight, such as in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend 
or terminate the lease.
Leases previously classified as finance leases
C11  If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), for leases that were classified as 
finance leases applying LKAS 17, the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability at the date 
of initial application shall be the carrying amount of the lease asset and lease liability immediately before that date 
measured applying LKAS 17. For those leases, a lessee shall account for the right-of-use asset and the lease liability 
applying this Standard from the date of initial application.
 Disclosure
C12  If a lessee elects to apply this Standard in accordance with paragraph C5(b), the lessee shall disclose information 
about initial application required by paragraph 28 of LKAS 8, except for the information specified in paragraph 
28(f) of LKAS 8. Instead of the information specified in paragraph 28(f) of LKAS 8, the lessee shall disclose:
(a)  the weighted average lessee’s incremental borrowing rate applied to lease liabilities recognised in the 
statement of financial position at the date of initial application; and
(b)  an explanation of any difference between:
(i)  operating lease commitments disclosed applying LKAS 17 at the end of the annual reporting period 
immediately preceding the date of initial application, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate 
at the date of initial application as described inparagraph C8(a); and
(ii) lease liabilities recognised in the statement of financial positionat the date of initial application.
C13  If a lessee uses one or more of the specified practical expedients in paragraph C10, it shall disclose that fact.
 
Lessors
C14  Except as described in paragraph C15, a lessor is not required to make any adjustments on transition for leases in 
which it is a lessor and shall account for those leases applying this Standard from the date of initial application.
C15  An intermediate lessor shall:
(a)  reassess subleases that were classified as operating leases applying LKAS 17 and are ongoing at the date of 
initial application, to determine whether each sublease should be classified as an operating lease or a finance 
lease applying this Standard. The intermediate lessor shall perform this assessment at the date of initial 

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
36A
application on the basis of the remaining contractual terms and conditions of the head lease and sublease at 
that date.
(b)  for subleases that were classified as operating leases applying LKAS 17 but finance leases applying this 
Standard, account for the sublease as a new finance lease entered into at the date of initial application.
 
Sale and leaseback transactions before the date of initial application
C16  An entity shall not reassess sale and leaseback transactions entered into beforethe date of initial application to 
determine whether the transfer of theunderlying asset satisfies the requirements in SLFRS 15 to be accounted for 
as asale.
C17  If a sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a sale and a finance lease applying LKAS 17, the seller-
lessee shall:
(a)  account for the leaseback in the same way as it accounts for any other finance lease that exists at the date of 
initial application; and
(b)  continue to amortise any gain on sale over the lease term.
C18  If a sale and leaseback transaction was accounted for as a sale and operating lease applying LKAS 17, the seller-
lessee shall:
(a)  account for the leaseback in the same way as it accounts for any other operating lease that exists at the date 
of initial application; and
(b)  adjust the leaseback right-of-use asset for any deferred gains or losses that relate to off-market terms 
recognised in the statement of financial position immediately before the date of initial application.
 
Amounts previously recognised in respect of business combinations
C19  If a lessee previously recognised an asset or a liability applying SLFRS 3 Business Combinations relating to 
favourable or unfavourable terms of an operating lease acquired as part of a business combination, the lessee 
shall derecognise that asset or liability and adjust the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset by acorresponding 
amount at the date of initial application.
 
References to SLFRS 9
C20  If an entity applies this Standard but does not yet apply SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, any reference in this 
Standard to SLFRS 9 shall be read as a reference to LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Withdrawal of other Standards
C21  This Standard supersedes the following Standards and Interpretations:
(a)  LKAS 17 Leases;
(b)  IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease;
(c)  SIC-15 Operating Leases—Incentives; and
(d)  SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of aLease.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
37A
Appendix D
Amendments to other Standards
This appendix sets out the amendments to other Standards that are a consequence of issuing this Standard. An entity shall 
apply the amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. If an entity applies this Standard for an 
earlier period, it shall also apply these amendments for that earlier period.
An entity is not permitted to apply SLFRS 16 before applying SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (see 
paragraph C1). Consequently, for Standards that were effective on 1 January 2016, the amendments in this appendix are 
presented based on the text of those Standards that was effective on 1 January 2016, as amended by SLFRS 15. The text of 
those Standards in this appendix does not include any other amendments that were not effective at 1 January 2016.
For Standards that were not effective on 1 January 2016, the amendments in this appendix are presented based on the text 
of that Standard that has been adopted (included in this publication), as amended by SLFRS 15. The text of those Standards 
in this appendix does not include any other amendments that were not effective at 1 January2016.
Amended paragraphs are shown with deleted text struck through and new text is underlined.
SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka 
Accounting Standards
Paragraph 30 is amended and paragraph 39AB is added.
 Use of fair value as deemed cost
30  If an entity uses fair value in its opening SLFRS statement of financial position as deemed cost for an item of 
property, plant and equipment, an investment property, or an intangible asset or a right-of-use asset (see paragraphs 
D5 and D7), the entity’s first SLFRS financial statements shall disclose, for each line item in the opening SLFRS 
statement of financial position:
 (a)  ...
Effective date
 ...
39AB  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 30, C4, D1, D7, D8B and D9, deleted paragraph D9A 
and added paragraphs D9B–D9E. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 16.
Paragraph C4 is amended.
 Exemptions for business combinations
 ...
C4  If a first-time adopter does not apply SLFRS 3 retrospectively to a past business combination, this has the following 
consequences for that business combination:
(a)  …

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
38A
(f)  If an asset acquired, or liability assumed, in a past business combination was not recognised in accordance 
with previous GAAP, it does not have adeemed cost of zero in the opening SLFRS statement of financial 
position. Instead, the acquirer shall recognise and measure it in its consolidated statement of financial 
position on the basis that SLFRSs would require in the statement of financial position of the acquiree. To 
illustrate: if the acquirer had not, in accordance with its previous GAAP, capitalised finance leases acquired 
in a past business combination in which the acquiree was a lessee, it shall capitalise those leases in its 
consolidated financial statements, as LKAS 17 SLFRS 16 Leases would require the acquiree to do in its 
SLFRS statement of financial position. Similarly, if the acquirer had not, in accordance with its previous 
GAAp, recognised a contingent liability that still exists at the date of transition to SLFRSs, the acquirer 
shall recognise that contingent liability at that date unless LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and 
Contingent Assets would prohibit its recognition in the financial statements of the acquiree. Conversely, if 
an asset or liability was subsumed in goodwill in accordance with previous GAAP but would have been 
recognised separately under SLFRS 3, that asset or liability remains in goodwill unless SLFRSs would 
require its recognition in the financial statements of the acquiree.
(g)  ...
In Appendix D, paragraphs D1, D7, D8B and D9 are amended. Paragraph D9A is deleted. Paragraphs D9B-D9E are 
added.
 Exemptions from other SLFRSs
 ...
D1  An entity may elect to use one or more of the following exemptions:
(a)  ...
(d)  leases (paragraphs D9 and D9A D9B–D9E);
 ...
 Deemed cost
 ...
D7  The elections in paragraphs D5 and D6 are also available for:
(a)  investment property, if an entity elects to use the cost model in LKAS 40Investment Property; and
(aa)  right-of-use assets (SLFRS 16 Leases); and
(b)  ...
... 
D8B  Some entities hold items of property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets orintangible assets that are used, or 
were previously used, in operations subject to rate regulation. The carrying amount of such items might include 
amounts that were determined under previous GAAP but do not qualify for capitalisation inaccordance with 

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
39A
SLFRSs. If this is the case, a first-time adopter may elect to usethe previous GAAP carrying amount of such an 
item at the date of transition to SLFRSs as deemed cost. If an entity applies this exemption to an item, it need not 
apply it to all items. At the date of transition to SLFRSs, an entity shall test for impairment in accordance with 
LKAS 36 each item for which this exemption isused. For the purposes of this paragraph, operations are subject to 
rate regulation if they are governed by a framework for establishing the prices that can be charged to customers 
for goods or services and that framework is subject to oversight and/or approval by a rate regulator (as defined in 
SLFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts).
 Leases
d9  A first-time adopter may apply the transitional provisions in IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains 
a Lease. Therefore, a first-time adopter may determine whether an arrangement existing at the date of transition 
to SLFRSs contains a lease on the basis of facts and circumstances existing at that date. Afirst-time adopter may 
assess whether a contract existing at the date of transition to SLFRSs contains a lease by applying paragraphs 9–11 
of SLFRS 16 to those contracts on the basis of facts and circumstances existing at that date.
d9A  [deleted] If a first-time adopter made the same determination of whether an arrangement contained a lease in 
accordance with previous GAAP as that required by IFRIC 4 but at a date other than that required by IFRIC 4, the 
first-time adopter need not reassess that determination when it adopts SLFRSs.For an entity to have made the same 
determination of whether the arrangement contained a lease in accordance with previous GAAP, that determination 
would have to have given the same outcome as that resulting from applying LKAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4.
D9B  When a first-time adopter that is a lessee recognises lease liabilities and right-of-use assets, it may apply the 
following approach to all of its leases (subjectto the practical expedients described in paragraph d9d):
(a)  measure a lease liability at the date of transition to SLFRSs. A lessee following this approach shall measure 
that lease liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments (see paragraph D9E), discounted 
using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate (see paragraph D9E) at the date of transition to SLFRSs.
(b)  measure a right-of-use asset at the date of transition to SLFRSs. The lessee shall choose, on a lease-by-lease 
basis, to measure that right-of-use asset at either:
 (i)  its carrying amount as if SLFRS 16 had been applied since the commencement date of the lease (see 
paragraph D9E), but discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of transition 
to SLFRSs; or
 (ii)  an amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments 
relating to that lease recognised in the statement of financial position immediately before the date of 
transition to SLFRSs.
(c)  apply LKAS 36 to right-of-use assets at the date of transition to SLFRSs.
D9C  Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph D9B, a first-time adopter that isa lessee shall measure the right-of-
use asset at fair value at the date of transition to SLFRSs for leases that meet the definition of investment property 
in LKAS 40 and are measured using the fair value model in LKAS 40 from the date of transition toSLFRSs.
D9D  A first-time adopter that is a lessee may do one or more of the following at the date of transition to SLFRSs, applied 
on a lease-by-lease basis:
(a)  apply a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics (for example, a 
similar remaining lease term for asimilar class of underlying asset in a similar economic environment).

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
40A
(b)  elect not to apply the requirements in paragraph D9B to leases for which the lease term (see paragraph D9E) 
ends within 12 months of the date of transition to SLFRSs. Instead, the entity shall account for (including 
disclosure of information about) these leases as if they were short-term leases accounted for in accordance 
with paragraph 6 of SLFRS 16.
(c)  elect not to apply the requirements in paragraph D9B to leases for which the underlying asset is of low value 
(as described in paragraphs B3-B8 ofSLFRS 16). Instead, the entity shall account for (including disclosure 
of information about) these leases in accordance with paragraph 6 of SLFRS 16.
(d)  exclude initial direct costs (see paragraph D9E) from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of 
transition to SLFRSs.
(e)  use hindsight, such as in determining the lease term if the contract contains options to extend or terminate 
the lease.
D9E  Lease payments, lessee, lessee’s incremental borrowing rate, commencement date of the lease, initial direct costs 
and lease term are defined terms in SLFRS 16 and are used in this Standard with the same meaning.
SLFRS 3 Business Combinations
Paragraphs 14 and 17 are amended and paragraphs 28A and 28B and their related heading, and paragraph 64M, are added.
 Recognition conditions
 ...
14  Paragraphs B28–B40  B31–B40 provide guidance on recognising operating leases and intangible assets. paragraphs 
22–28B specify the types of identifiable assets and liabilities that include items for which this SLFRS provides 
limited exceptions to the recognition principle and conditions.
 Classifying or designating identifiable assets acquired and liabilities as sumed in a business combination
 ...
17  This SLFRS provides two exceptions to the principle in paragraph 15:
(a)  classification of a lease contract in which the acquiree is the lessor as either an operating lease or a finance 
lease in accordance with LKAS 17 SLFRS 16 Leases; and
(b)  ...
 Leases in which the acquiree is the lessee
28A  The acquirer shall recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases identified in accordance with SLFRS 
16 in which the acquiree is the lessee. The acquirer is not required to recognise right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities for:
(a)  leases for which the lease term (as defined in SLFRS 16) ends within 12 months of the acquisition date; or
(b)  leases for which the underlying asset is of low value (as described in paragraphs B3–B8 of SLFRS 16).
28B  The acquirer shall measure the lease liability at the present value of the remaining lease payments (as defined in 
SLFRS 16) as if the acquired lease were a new lease at the acquisition date. The acquirer shall measure the right-of-

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
41A
use asset at the same amount as the lease liability, adjusted to reflect favourable or unfavourable terms of the lease 
when compared with market terms.
 Effective date
 ...
64M  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 14, 17, B32 and B42, deleted paragraphs B28–B30 and their 
related heading and added paragraphs 28A–28B and their related heading. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 16.
In Appendix B, paragraphs B28–B30 and their related heading are deleted and paragraphs B32 and B42 are amended.
 
Operating leases
B28  [deleted] The acquirer shall recognise no assets or liabilities related to an operating lease in which the acquiree is 
the lessee except as required by paragraphs B29 and B30.
B29  [Deleted]The acquirer shall determine whether the terms of each operating lease in which the acquiree is the 
lessee are favourable or unfavourable. The acquirer shall recognise an intangible asset if the terms of an operating 
lease are favourable relative to market terms and a liability if the terms are unfavourable relative to market terms. 
Paragraph B42 provides guidance on measuring the acquisition-date fair value of assets subject to operating leases 
in which the acquiree is the lessor.
B30  [deleted] An identifiable intangible asset may be associated with an operating lease, which may be evidenced 
by market participants’ willingness to pay a price for the lease even if it is at market terms. For example, a lease 
of gates at an airport or of retail space in a prime shopping area might provide entry into amarket or other future 
economic benefits that qualify as identifiable intangible assets, for example, as a customer relationship. In that 
situation, the acquirer shall recognise the associated identifiable intangible asset(s) in accordance with paragraph 
B31.
 Intangible assets
 …
B32  An intangible asset that meets the contractual-legal criterion is identifiable even if the asset is not transferable or 
separable from the acquiree or from other rights and obligations. For example:
(a)  [deleted] an acquiree leases a manufacturing facility under an operating lease that has terms that are 
favourable relative to market terms. The lease terms explicitly prohibit transfer of the lease (through either 
sale or sublease). The amount by which the lease terms are favourable compared with the terms of current 
market transactions for the same or similar items is an intangible asset that meets the contractual-legal 
criterion for recognition separately from goodwill, even though the acquirer cannot sell or otherwise transfer 
the lease contract.
(b)  ...
 Assets subject to operating leases in which the acquireeis the lessor
B42  In measuring the acquisition-date fair value of an asset such as a building or apatent that is subject to an operating 
lease in which the acquiree is the lessor,the acquirer shall take into account the terms of the lease. In other words, 
The acquirer does not recognise a separate asset or liability if the terms of an operating lease are either favourable 
or unfavourable when compared with market terms as paragraph B29 requires for leases in which the acquiree is 
thelessee.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
42A
SLFRS 4  Insurance Contracts
Paragraph 4, as amended by SLFRS 15, is amended and paragraph 41I is added.
Scope
 ...
4  An entity shall not apply this SLFRS to:
(a)  ...
(c)  contractual rights or contractual obligations that are contingent on the future use of, or right to use, a non-
financial item (for example, some licence fees, royalties, contingent variable lease payments and similar 
items), as well as a lessee’s residual value guarantee embedded in afinance  lease (see LKAS 17 SLFRS 16 
Leases, SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and LKAS 38 Intangible Assets).
(d)  ...
Effective date and transition
 ...
41I  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 4. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies 
SLFRS 16.
SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
Paragraph 29 is amended and paragraph 44CC is added.
 Fair value
 ...
29  Disclosures of fair value are not required:
(a)  ...
(b)  for an investment in equity instruments that do not have a quoted price in an active market for an identical 
instrument (ie a Level 1 input), or derivatives linked to such equity instruments, that is measured at cost in 
accordance with LKAS 39 because its fair value cannot otherwise bemeasured reliably; or
(c)  for a contract containing a discretionary participation feature (asdescribed in SLFRS 4) if the fair value of 
that feature cannot be measured reliably; or
(d)  for lease liabilities.
Effective date and transition
 …
44CC  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 29 and B11D. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 16.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
43A
In Appendix B, paragraph B11D is amended.
 Quantitative liquidity risk disclosures (paragraphs 34(a)and 39(a) and (b))
 …
B11D  The contractual amounts disclosed in the maturity analyses as required by paragraph 39(a) and (b) are the contractual 
undiscounted cash flows, for example:
(a)  gross finance lease obligations liabilities (before deducting finance charges);
(b)  ...
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments
Paragraph 2.1 and paragraph 5.5.15 are amended and paragraph 7.1.5 is added.
 Chapter 2 Scope
2.1  This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:
(a)  ...
(b)  rights and obligations under leases to which LKAS 17 SLFRS 16 Leases applies. However:
 (i)  finance lease receivables (ie net investments in finance leases) and operating lease receivables 
recognised by a lessor are subject to the derecognition and impairment requirements of this 
Standard;
 (ii)  finance
 lease payables  liabilities recognised by a lessee are subject to the derecognition 
requirements in paragraph 3.3.1 of this Standard; and
 (iii)  derivatives that are embedded in leases are subject to the embedded derivatives requirements 
of this Standard.
(c)  ...
 Simplified approach for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables
5.5.15  Despite paragraphs 5.5.3 and 5.5.5, an entity shall always measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to 
lifetime expected credit losses for:
(a)  …
(b)  lease receivables that result from transactions that are within the scope of LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16, if the 
entity chooses as its accounting policy to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime 
expected credit losses. That accounting policy shall be applied to all lease receivables but may be 
applied separately to finance and operating lease receivables.
...

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
44A
7.1 Effective date
 ...
7.1.5  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 2.1, 5.5.15, B4.3.8, B5.5.34 and B5.5.46. An entity shall 
apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 16.
In Appendix B, paragraphs B4.3.8, B5.5.34 and B5.5.46 are amended.
 Embedded derivatives (Section 4.3)
 ...
B4.3.8  The economic characteristics and risks of an embedded derivative are closely related to the economic characteristics 
and risks of the host contract in the following examples. In these examples, an entity does not account for the 
embedded derivative separately from the host contract.
(a)  ...
(f)  An embedded derivative in a host lease contract is closely related to the host contract if the embedded 
derivative is (i) an inflation-related indexsuch as an index of lease payments to a consumer price index 
(providedthat the lease is not leveraged and the index relates to inflation in theentity’s own economic 
environment), (ii) contingent rentals 
variable lease payments based on related sales or (iii) contingent rentals 
variable lease payments based on variable interest rates.
(g)  ...
 Expected credit losses
  …
B5.5.34  When measuring a loss allowance for a lease receivable, the cash flows used for determining the expected credit 
losses should be consistent with the cash flows used in measuring the lease receivable in accordance with LKAS 
17 SLFRS 16 Leases.
 ...
Time value of money
 ...
B5.5.46  Expected credit losses on lease receivables shall be discounted using the same discount rate used in the 
measurement of the lease receivable in accordance with LKAS 17 SLFRS 16.
 ...
SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
Paragraph 6 is amended.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
45A
Scope
 ...
6  The measurement and disclosure requirements of this SLFRS do not apply to the following:
(a) ...
(b)  leasing transactions within the scope of LKAS 17
  accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 16 Leases; and
(c)  ...
In Appendix C, paragraph C6 is added.
 Effective date and transition
 ...
C6  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in January 2016, amended paragraph 6. An entity shallapply that amendment when it 
applies SLFRS 16.
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Paragraphs 5 and 97 are amended.
Scope
5  An entity shall apply this Standard to all contracts with customers, except thefollowing:
(a)  lease contracts within the scope of LKAS 17 
SLFRS 16 Leases;
(b)  ...
 Costs to fulfil a contract
 ...
97  Costs that relate directly to a contract (or a specific anticipated contract) include any of the following:
(a)  ...
(c)  allocations of costs that relate directly to the contract or to contract activities (for example, costs of contract 
management and supervision,insurance and depreciation of tools, and
 equipment and right-of-use assets 
used in fulfilling the contract);
(d)  ...
In Appendix B, paragraphs B66 and B70 are amended.

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
46A
 A forward or a call option
B66  If an entity has an obligation or a right to repurchase the asset (a forward or a call option), a customer does not 
obtain control of the asset because the customer is limited in its ability to direct the use of, and obtain substantially 
all of the remaining benefits from, the asset even though the customer may have physical possession of the asset. 
Consequently, the entity shall account for the contract as either of the following:
(a)  a lease in accordance with LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16 Leases if the entity can or must repurchase the asset for 
an amount that is less than the original selling price of the asset, unless the contract is part of a sale and 
leaseback transaction. If the contract is part of a sale and leaseback transaction,the entity shall continue to 
recognise the asset and shall recognise a financial liability for any consideration received from the customer. 
The entity shall account for the financial liability in accordance with SLFRS 9;or
(b)  ...
 A put option
B70  If an entity has an obligation to repurchase the asset at the customer’s request (a put option) at a price that is lower 
than the original selling price of the asset, the entity shall consider at contract inception whether the customer has a 
significant economic incentive to exercise that right. The customer’s exercising of that right results in the customer 
effectively paying the entity consideration for the right to use a specified asset for a period of time. Therefore, if 
the customer has a significant economic incentive to exercise that right, the entityshall account for the agreement 
as a lease in accordance with LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16, unless the contract is part of a sale and leaseback transaction. 
If the contract is part of a sale and leaseback transaction, the entity shall continue to recognisethe asset and shall 
recognise a financial liability for any consideration received from the customer. The entity shall account for the 
financial liability inaccordance with SLFRS 9.
   ...
In Appendix C, paragraph C1A is added.
Effective date
 …
C1A  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 5, 97, B66 and B70.An entity shall apply those 
amendments when it applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
Paragraph 123 is amended and paragraph 139Q is added.
 Disclosure of accounting policies
 …
123  In the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies, management makesvarious judgements, apart from 
those involving estimations, that can significantly affect the amounts it recognises in the financial statements. For 
example, management makes judgements in determining:
(a)  ...

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
47A
(b)  when substantially all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of financial assets and, for lessors, lease 
assets subject to leases aretransferred to other entities; and
(c)  ...
Transition and effective date
 ...
139Q  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 123. An entity shall apply that amendment when it 
applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 2 Inventories
Paragraph 12 is amended and paragraph 40G is added.
 Costs of conversion
12  The costs of conversion of inventories include costs directly related to the units of production, such as direct 
labour. They also include a systematic allocation of fixed and variable production overheads that are incurred 
in converting materials into finished goods. Fixed production overheads are those indirect costs of production 
that remain relatively constant regardless of the volume of production, such as depreciation and maintenance of 
factory buildings, and
 equipment and right-of-use assets used in the production process, and the cost of factory 
management and administration. Variable production overheads are those indirect costs of production that vary 
directly, or nearly directly, with the volume of production, such as indirect materials and indirect labour.
 ...
Effective date
 …
40G  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 12. An entity shall apply that amendment when it 
applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows
Paragraphs 17 and 44 are amended and paragraph 59 is added.
 Financing activities
17  The separate disclosure of cash flows arising from financing activities is important because it is useful in predicting 
claims on future cash flows by providers of capital to the entity. Examples of cash flows arising from financing 
activities are:
(a)  ...
(e)  cash payments by a lessee for the reduction of the outstanding liabilityrelating to a finance
 lease.

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
48A
Non-cash transactions
 ...
44  Many investing and financing activities do not have a direct impact on current cash flows although they do affect 
the capital and asset structure of an entity.The exclusion of non-cash transactions from the statement of cash flows 
is consistent with the objective of a statement of cash flows as these items do not involve cash flows in the current 
period. Examples of non-cash transactions are:
(a)  the acquisition of assets either by assuming directly related liabilities orby means of a finance
 lease;
(b)  ...
Effective date
 ...
59  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 17 and 44. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 12 Income Taxes
Paragraph 20 is amended for an entity that has not adopted SLFRS 9 FinancialInstruments.
 Assets carried at fair value
20  SLFRSs permit or require certain assets to be carried at fair value or to be revalued (see, for example, LKAS 16 
Property, Plant and Equipment , LKAS 38 Intangible Assets, LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 
Measurement, and LKAS 40 InvestmentProperty and SLFRS 16 Leases). In some jurisdictions, the revaluation or 
other restatement of an asset to fair value affects taxable profit (tax loss) for the current period. As a result, the tax 
base of the asset is adjusted and no temporary difference arises. In other jurisdictions, the revaluation or restatement 
of an asset does not affect taxable profit in the period of the revaluation or restatement and, consequently, the tax 
base of the asset is not adjusted. Nevertheless, the future recovery of the carrying amount will result ina taxable 
flow of economic benefits to the entity and the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes will differ from the 
amount of those economic benefits. The difference between the carrying amount of a revalued asset and its tax base 
is a temporary difference and gives rise to a deferred tax liability or asset. This is true even if:
 (a)  ...
Paragraph 20 is amended for an entity that has adopted SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
 Assets carried at fair value
20  SLFRSs permit or require certain assets to be carried at fair value or to be revalued (see, for example, LKAS 
16 Property, Plant and Equipment, LKAS 38 Intangible Assets,LKAS 40 Investment Property, and SLFRS 9 
Financial Instruments and SLFRS 16 Leases). In some jurisdictions, the revaluation or other restatement of an asset 
to fair value affects taxable profit (tax loss) for the current period. As a result, the tax base of the asset is adjusted 
and no temporary difference arises. In other jurisdictions,the revaluation or restatement of an asset does not affect 
taxable profit in the period of the revaluation or restatement and, consequently, the tax base of the asset is not 
adjusted. Nevertheless, the future recovery of the carrying amount will result in a taxable flow of economic benefits 
to the entity and the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes will differ from the amount of those economic 

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
49A
benefits. The difference between the carrying amount of a revalued asset and its tax base is a temporary difference 
and gives rise to a deferred taxliability or asset. This is true even if:
 (a)  ...
paragraph 98G is added.
Effective date
 …
98G  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 20. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies 
SLFRS 16.
LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment
Paragraphs 4 and 27 are deleted, paragraphs 5, 10, 44 and 68 are amended,paragraph 69, as amended by SLFRS 15, is 
amended and paragraph 81L is added.
Scope
 ...
4  [deleted] Other Standards may require recognition of an item of property, plantand equipment based on an approach 
different from that in this Standard. For example, LKAS 17 Leases requires an entity to evaluate its recognition 
of an item ofleased property, plant and equipment on the basis of the transfer of risks andrewards. However, in 
such cases other aspects of the accounting treatment for these assets, including depreciation, are prescribed by this 
Standard.
5  An entity using the cost model for investment property in accordance with LKAS 40 Investment Property shall use 
the cost model in this Standard for owned investment property.
Recognition
 ...
10  An entity evaluates under this recognition principle all its property, plant and equipment costs at the time they are 
incurred. These costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, plant andequipment 
and costs incurred subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. The cost of an item of property, plant and 
equipment may include costs incurred relating to leases of assets that are used to construct, add to, replace part of 
or service an item of property, plant and equipment, such as depreciation of right-of-use assets.
 Measurement of cost
 ...
27  [deleted] The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment held by a lessee under a finance lease is determined 
in accordance with LKAS 17.
 ...

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
50A
 Depreciation
 ...
44  An entity allocates the amount initially recognised in respect of an item of property, plant and equipment to 
its significant parts and depreciates separatelyeach such part. For example, it may be appropriate to depreciate 
separately the airframe and engines of an aircraft, whether owned or subject to a finance lease.
 Similarly, if an entity 
acquires property, plant and equipment subject to an operating lease in which it is the lessor, it may be appropriate 
to depreciate separately amounts reflected in the cost of that item that are attributable to favourable or unfavourable 
lease terms relative to market terms.
 ...
Derecognition
 ...
68  The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property,plant and equipment shall be included 
in profit or loss when the item is derecognised (unless LKAS 17  SLFRS 16 Leases requires other wise on a 
sale and leaseback). Gains shall not be classified as revenue.
 ...
69  The disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment may occur in a variety of ways (eg by sale, by entering 
in to a finance lease or by donation). The date of disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is the date 
the recipient obtains control of that item in accordance with the requirements for determining when a performance 
obligation is satisfied in SLFRS 15. LKAS 17
 SLFRS16 applies to disposal by a sale and leaseback.
 ...
Effective date
 ...
81L  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, deleted paragraphs 4 and 27 and amended paragraphs 5, 10, 44 and 68–69. An 
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Paragraph 16 is amended and paragraph 60K is added.
 Monetary items
16  The essential feature of a monetary item is a right to receive (or an obligation to deliver) a fixed or determinable 
number of units of currency. Examples include: pensions and other employee benefits to be paid in cash; provisions 
that are to be settled in cash; lease liabilities; and cash dividends that are recognised as aliability. Similarly, a 
contract to receive (or deliver) a variable number of theentity’s own equity instruments or a variable amount of 
assets in which the fairvalue to be received (or delivered) equals a fixed or determinable number of units of currency 
is a monetary item. Conversely, the essential feature of anon-monetary item is the absence of a right to receive (or 
an obligation todeliver) a fixed or determinable number of units of currency. Examples include:amounts prepaid 
for goods and services (eg prepaid rent)
; goodwill; intangible assets; inventories; property, plant and equipment; 
right-of-use assets; and provisions that are to be settled by the delivery of a non-monetary asset.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
51A
Effective date and transition
 …
60K  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 16. An entity shall apply that amendment when it 
applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 23 Borrowing Costs
Paragraph 6 is amended and paragraph 29C is added.
Definitions
 ...
6  Borrowing costs may include:
(a)  ...
(d)  finance charges
 interest in respect of finance  leases liabilities  recognised in accordance with LKAS 17 
SLFRS 16 Leases; and
(e)  ...
Effective date
 ...
29C  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies 
SLFRS 16.
LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation
Paragraph 97S is added.
Effective date and transition
 ...
97S  SLFRS 16 Leases, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs AG9 and AG10. An entity shall apply those 
amendments when it applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
Paragraph 5 is amended and paragraph 102 is added.

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
52A
Scope
 ...
5  When another Standard deals with a specific type of provision, contingent liability or contingent asset, an entity 
applies that Standard instead of this Standard. For example, some types of provisions are addressed in Standards 
on:
(a)  ...
(c)  leases (see LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16 Leases). however, as LKAS 17 contains no specificrequirements to deal 
with operating leases that have become onerous, this Standard applies to such cases this Standard applies to 
any lease that becomes onerous before the commencement date of the lease as defined in SLFRS 16. This 
Standard also applies to short-term leases and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value accounted 
for in accordance with paragraph 6 of SLFRS 16 and that have become onerous;
(d)  ...
Effective date
 ...
102  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 5. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies 
SLFRS 16.
LKAS 38 Intangible Assets
Paragraphs 3, 6 and 113 are amended, paragraph 114, as amended by SLFRS 15, is amended and paragraph 130L is added.
Scope
 …
3  If another Standard prescribes the accounting for a specific type of intangible asset, an entity applies that Standard 
instead of this Standard. For example, this Standard does not apply to:
(a)  ...
(c)  leases that are within the scope of LKAS 17 of intangible assets accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 16 
Leases. 
(d)  ...
6  In the case of a finance lease, the underlying asset may be either tangible orintangible. After initial recognition, a 
lessee accounts for an intangible asset held under a finance lease in accordance with this Standard . Rights held by 
a lessee under licensing agreements for items such as motion picture films, video recordings, plays, manuscripts, 
patents and copyrights are excluded from the scope of LKAS 17 and are within the scope of this Standard and are 
excluded from the scope of SLFRS 16.
 ...

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
53A
Retirements and disposals
 ...
113  The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an intangible asset shall be determined as the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying amount of the asset. It shall be recognised in 
profit or loss when the asset is derecognised (unless LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16 requires otherwise on a sale and 
leaseback.) Gains shall not be classified as revenue.
114  The disposal of an intangible asset may occur in a variety of ways (eg.- by sale, by entering into a finance lease, or 
by donation). The date of disposal of an intangible asset is the date that the recipient obtains control of that asset in 
accordance with the requirements for determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in SLFRS 15 Revenue 
from Contracts with Customers. LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16 applies to disposal by a sale and leaseback.
Transitional provisions and effective date
 ...
130L  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 3, 6, 113 and 114. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
Paragraph 2 is amended and paragraph 103V is added for an entity that has not adopted SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments. 
LKAS 39 is not amended for an entity that has adopted SLFRS 9.
Scope
2  This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:
(a)  ...
(b)  rights and obligations under leases to which LKAS 17 SLFRS 16 Leases applies. However:
(i)  finance lease receivables (ie.- net investments in finance leases) and operating lease receivables 
recognised by a lessor are subject to the derecognition and impairment provisions of this 
Standard (see paragraphs 15–37, 58, 59, 63–65 and Appendix A paragraphs AG36–AG52 and 
AG84–AG93);
(ii)  finance
 lease payables liabilities recognised by a lessee are subject to the derecognition provisions 
in paragraph 39 of this Standard (see paragraphs 39–42 and Appendix A paragraphs AG57–
AG63); and
(iii)  ...
Effective date and transition
 ...
103V  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraphs 2 and AG33. An entity shall apply those amendments when 
it applies SLFRS 16.

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
54A
LKAS 40 Investment Property
Given the extensive changes to LKAS 40 Investment Property, the full text of this Standard with the proposed changes to 
it has been reproduced at the end of Appendix d.
LKAS 41 Agriculture
Paragraph 2 is amended and paragraph 64 is added.
Scope
 ...
2  This Standard does not apply to:
(a)  ...
(e)  right-of-use assets arising from a lease of land related to agricultural activity (see SLFRS 16 Leases).
...
Effective date and transition
 ...
64  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies 
SLFRS 16.
IFRIC 1 Changes in Existing Decommissioning, 
Restoration and Similar Liabilities
The References paragraph is amended.
References
• SLFRS 16 Leases
• LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements 
•  ...
Paragraph 2 is amended and paragraph 9B is added.

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
55A
Scope
2  This Interpretation applies to changes in the measurement of any existing decommissioning, restoration or similar 
liability that is both:
(a)  recognised as part of the cost of an item of property, plant and equipment in accordance with LKAS 16 or as 
part of the cost of aright-of-use asset in accordance with SLFRS 16; and
(b)  ...
Effective date
 …
9B  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies 
SLFRS 16.
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements
The References paragraph is amended.
References
• ...
• SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
• SLFRS 16 Leases
• ...
• LKAS 17 Leases
• ...
• IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease
•  ...
Paragraph 28F is added.
Effective date
 ...
28F  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph AG8 and Appendix B. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 16.
In Appendix A, paragraph AG8 is amended.

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
56A
Appendix A
Scope (paragraph 5)
 …
AG8  The operator may have a right to use the separable infrastructure described in paragraph AG7(a), or the facilities 
used to provide ancillary unregulated services described in paragraph AG7(b). In either case, there may in substance 
be a lease from the grantor to the operator; if so, it shall be accounted for in accordance with LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16.
SIC-29 Service Concession Arrangements: 
Disclosures
The References paragraph is amended.
References
•  SLFRS 16 Leases
• ...
•  LKAS 17 Leases 
• ...
Paragraph 5 is amended.
Issue
 ...
5  Certain aspects and disclosures relating to some service concession arrangements are already addressed by existing 
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (eg LKAS 16 applies to acquisitions of items of property, plant and equipment, 
LKAS 17 
SLFRS 16 applies to leases of assets, and LKAS 38 applies to acquisitions of intangible assets). however, 
a service concession arrangement may involve executory contracts that are not addressed in Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standards, unless the contracts are onerous, in which case LKAS 37 applies. Therefore, this Interpretation addresses 
additional disclosures of service concession arrangements.
The Effective date paragraph is amended.
Effective date
…
An entity shall apply the amendment in paragraphs 6(e) and 6A for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. If 
an entity applies IFRIC 12 for an earlier period, the amendment shall be applied for that earlier period.
SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 5. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 16.

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
57A
SIC-32 Intangible Assets—Web Site Costs
The References paragraph is amended.
References
•  ...
• SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
• SLFRS 16 Leases
• ...
•  LKAS 17 Leases 
•  ...
Paragraph 6, as amended by SLFRS 15, is amended.
Issue
 ...
6  LKAS 38 does not apply to intangible assets held by an entity for sale in the ordinary course of business (see LKAS 
2 and SLFRS 15) or leases that fall within the scope of LKAS 17
 of intangible assets accounted for in accordance 
with SLFRS 16. Accordingly, this Interpretation does not apply to expenditure on the development or operation of 
a web site (or web site software) for sale to another entity or that is accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 16. 
When a web site isleased under an operating lease, the lessor applies this Interpretation. When aweb site is leased 
under a finance lease, the lessee applies this Interpretation after initial recognition of the leased asset.
The Effective date paragraph is amended.
Effective date
…
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended the ‘References’section and paragraph 6. 
An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 15.
SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 16.
LKAS 40 Investment Property
Given the extensive changes to LKAS 40 Investment Property, the full text of this Standard, as amended by SLFRS 15, 
with the proposed changes to it has been reproduced. New text is underlined and deleted text is struck through.

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
58A
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 40
Investment Property
Objective
1  The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting treatment for investment property and related disclosure 
requirements.
Scope
2  This Standard shall be applied in the recognition, measurement and disclosure of investment property.
3  [deleted] Among other things, this Standard applies to the measurement in a lessee’s financial statements of 
investment property interests held under a lease accounted for as a finance lease and to the measurement in a 
lessor’s financial statements of investment property provided to a lessee under an operating lease.This Standard 
does not deal with matters covered in LKAS 17 Leases, including:
(a)  classification of leases as finance leases or operating leases;
(b)  recognition of lease income from investment property (see also SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers);
(c)  measurement in a lessee’s financial statements of property interests held under a lease accounted for as an 
operating lease;
(d)  measurement in a lessor’s financial statements of its net investment in a finance lease;
(e)  accounting for sale and lease back transactions; and
(f)  disclosure about finance leases and operating leases.
4  This Standard does not apply to:
(a)  biological assets related to agricultural activity (see LKAS 41 Agriculture and LKAS 16 Property, Plant and 
Equipment); and
(b)  mineral rights and mineral reserves such as oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources.
Definitions
5  The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
 Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financial position.
 Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration given to acquire 
an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the amount attributed to that asset 
when initially recognised in accordance with the specific requirements of other SLFRSs, eg SLFRS 2 Share-
based Payment.
 Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement).

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
59A
 Investment property is property (land or a building—or part of a building—or both) held (by the owner or 
by the lessee as a right-of-use asset under a finance lease) to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, 
rather than for:
(a)  use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes; or
(b)  sale in the ordinary course of business.
 Owner-occupied property is property held (by the owner or by the lessee as a right-of-use asset under a 
finance lease) for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
Classification of property as investment property or owner-occupied property
6  [deleted] A property interest that is held by a lessee under an operating lease may be classified and accounted 
for as investment property if, and only if, the property would otherwise meet the definition of an investment 
property and the lessee uses the fair value model set out in paragraphs 33–55 for the asset recognised. 
This classification alternativeis available on a property-by-property basis. However, once this classification 
alternative is selected for one such property interest heldunder an operating lease, all property classified as 
investment property shall be accounted for using the fair value model. When this classification alternative is 
selected, any interest so classified is included in the disclosures required by paragraphs 74–78.
7  Investment property is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.Therefore, an investment property 
generates cash flows largely independently of the other assets held by an entity. This distinguishes investment 
property from owner-occupied property. The production or supply of goods or services (or the use of property for 
administrative purposes) generates cash flows that are attributable not only to property, but also to other assets used 
in the production or supply process. LKAS 16 applies to owned owner-occupied property and SLFRS 16 applies to 
owner-occupied property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset.
8  The following are examples of investment property:
(a)  land held for long-term capital appreciation rather than for short-term sale in the ordinary course of business.
(b)  land held for a currently undetermined future use. (If an entity has not determined that it will use the land 
as owner-occupied property or for short-term sale in the ordinary course of business, the land is regarded as 
held for capital appreciation.)
(c)  a building owned by the entity (or a right-of-use asset relating to a building held by the entity under a finance 
lease) and leased out underone or more operating leases.
(d)  a building that is vacant but is held to be leased out under one or more operating leases.
(e)  property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property.
9  The following are examples of items that are not investment property and are therefore outside the scope of this 
Standard:
(a)  property intended for sale in the ordinary course of business or in the process of construction or development 
for such sale (see LKAS 2 Inventories), for example, property acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent 
disposal in the near future or for development and resale.
(b)  [deleted]

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
60A
(c)  owner-occupied property (see LKAS 16 and SLFRS 16), including (among other things) property held for 
future use as owner-occupied property, property held for future development and subsequent use as owner-
occupied property, property occupied by employees (whether or not the employees pay rent at market rates) 
and owner-occupied property awaiting disposal.
(d)  [deleted]
(e)  property that is leased to another entity under a finance lease.
10  Some properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation and another portion that is 
held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes. If these portions could 
be sold separately (or leased out separately under a finance lease), an entity accounts for the portions separately. If 
the portions could not be sold separately, the property is investment property only if an insignificant portion is held 
for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes.
11  In some cases, an entity provides ancillary services to the occupants of a propertyit holds. An entity treats such a 
property as investment property if the services are insignificant to the arrangement as a whole. An example is when 
the owner of an office building provides security and maintenance services to the lessees who occupy the building.
12  In other cases, the services provided are significant. For example, if an entity owns and manages a hotel, services 
provided to guests are significant to the arrangement as a whole. Therefore, an owner-managed hotel is owner-
occupied property, rather than investment property.
13  It may be difficult to determine whether ancillary services are so significant that a property does not qualify as 
investment property. For example, the owner of a hotel sometimes transfers some responsibilities to third parties 
under amanagement contract. The terms of such contracts vary widely. At one end of the spectrum, the owner’s 
position may, in substance, be that of a passive investor. At the other end of the spectrum, the owner may simply 
have outsourced day-to-day functions while retaining significant exposure tovariation in the cash flows generated 
by the operations of the hotel.
14  Judgement is needed to determine whether a property qualifies as investment property. An entity develops criteria 
so that it can exercise that judgement consistently in accordance with the definition of investment property and 
with the related guidance in paragraphs 7–13. Paragraph 75(c) requires an entity to disclose these criteria when 
classification is difficult.
14A  Judgement is also needed to determine whether the acquisition of investmentproperty is the acquisition of an asset 
or a group of assets or a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3 Business Combinations. Reference 
should be made to SLFRS 3 to determine whether it is a business combination. The discussion in paragraphs 
7–14 of this Standard relates to whether or not property is owner-occupied property or investment property and 
not to determining whether or not the acquisition of property is a business combination as defined in SLFRS 3. 
Determining whether a specific transaction meets the definition of a business combination as defined in SLFRS 3 
and includes an investment property as defined in this Standard requires the separate application of both Standards.
15  In some cases, an entity owns property that is leased to, and occupied by, its parent or another subsidiary. The 
property does not qualify as investment property in the consolidated financial statements, because the property is 
owner-occupied from the perspective of the group. However, from the perspective of the entity that owns it, the 
property is investment property if it meets the definition in paragraph 5. Therefore, the lessor treats the property as 
investment property in its individual financial statements.

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
61A
Recognition
16  An owned Investment property shall be recognised as an asset when, and only when:
(a)  it is probable that the future economic benefits that are associated with the investment property will 
flow to the entity; and
(b)  the cost of the investment property can be measured reliably.
17  An entity evaluates under this recognition principle all its investment property costs at the time they are incurred. 
These costs include costs incurred initially to acquire an investment property and costs incurred subsequently to 
add to,replace part of, or service a property.
18  Under the recognition principle in paragraph 16, an entity does not recognise in the carrying amount of an investment 
property the costs of the day-to-day servicing of such a property. Rather, these costs are recognised in profit or loss 
as incurred. Costs of day-to-day servicing are primarily the cost of labour and consumables, and may include the 
cost of minor parts. The purpose of these expenditures is often described as for the ‘repairs and maintenance’ of the 
property.
19  Parts of investment properties may have been acquired through replacement.For example, the interior walls may 
be replacements of original walls. Under the recognition principle, an entity recognises in the carrying amount 
of an investment property the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that cost is 
incurred if the recognition criteria are met. The carrying amount of those parts that are replaced is derecognised in 
accordancewith the derecognition provisions of this Standard.
19A  An investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset shall be recognised in accordance with SLFRS 16.
Measurement at recognition
20  An owned investment property shall be measured initially at its cost.Transaction costs shall be included in 
the initial measurement.
21  The cost of a purchased investment property comprises its purchase price and any directly attributable expenditure. 
Directly attributable expenditure includes, for example, professional fees for legal services, property transfer 
taxesand other transaction costs.
22  [Deleted]
23  The cost of an investment property is not increased by:
(a)  start-up costs (unless they are necessary to bring the property to the condition necessary for it to be capable of 
operating in the manner intended by management),
(b)  operating losses incurred before the investment property achieves the planned level of occupancy, or
(c)  abnormal amounts of wasted material, labour or other resources incurred in constructing or developing the 
property.
24  If payment for an investment property is deferred, its cost is the cash price equivalent. The difference between this 
amount and the total payments is recognised as interest expense over the period of credit.
25  [deleted] The initial cost of a property interest held under a lease and classified as an investment property 
shall be as prescribed for a financelease by paragraph 20 of LKAS 17, ie the asset shall be recognised at 

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
62A
thelower of the fair value of the property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. An equivalent 
amount shall be recognised as aliability in accordance with that same paragraph.
26  [deleted] Any premium paid for a lease is treated as part of the minimum leasepayments for this purpose, and 
is therefore included in the cost of the asset, butis excluded from the liability. If a property interest held under a 
lease isclassified as investment property, the item accounted for at fair value is thatinterest and not the underlying 
property. Guidance on measuring the fair valueof a property interest is set out for the fair value model in paragraphs 
33–35, 40,41, 48, 50 and 52 and in SLFRS 13. That guidance is also relevant to themeasurement of fair value when 
that value is used as cost for initial recognitionpurposes.
27  One or more investment properties may be acquired in exchange for anon-monetary asset or assets, or a combination 
of monetary and non-monetary assets. The following discussion refers to an exchange of one non-monetary asset 
for another, but it also applies to all exchanges described in the preceding sentence. The cost of such an investment 
property is measured at fair value unless (a) the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or (b) the 
fairvalue of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable.The acquired asset is measured 
in this way even if an entity cannot immediatelyderecognise the asset given up. If the acquired asset is not measured 
at fair value, its cost is measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up.
28  An entity determines whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance by considering the extent to 
which its future cash flows are expected to change as a result of the transaction. An exchange transaction has 
commercial substance if:
(a)  the configuration (risk, timing and amount) of the cash flows of the asset received differs from the 
configuration of the cash flows of the asset transferred, or
(b)  the entity-specific value of the portion of the entity’s operations affected by the transaction changes as a 
result of the exchange, and
(c)  the difference in (a) or (b) is significant relative to the fair value of the assets exchanged.
 For the purpose of determining whether an exchange transaction has commercial substance, the entity-specific 
value of the portion of the entity’s operations affected by the transaction shall reflect post-tax cash flows. The result 
of these analyses may be clear without an entity having to perform detailed calculations.
29  The fair value of an asset is reliably measurable if (a) the variability in the range of reasonable fair value 
measurements is not significant for that asset or (b) the probabilities of the various estimates within the range can 
be reasonably assessed and used when measuring fair value. If the entity is able to measurere liably the fair value 
of either the asset received or the asset given up, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure cost 
unless the fair value ofthe asset received is more clearly evident.
29A  An investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset shall be measured initially at its cost in accordance 
with SLFRS 16.
Measurement after recognition
 Accounting policy
30  With the exceptions noted in paragraphs 32A and 34, an entity shall choose as its accounting policy either 
the fair value model in paragraphs33–55 or the cost model in paragraph 56 and shall apply that policy to all 
of its investment property.
31  LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors states that avoluntary change in 
accounting policy shall be made only if the change results in the financial statements providing reliable and more 

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
63A
relevant information about the effects of transactions, other events or conditions on the entity’s financial position, 
financial performance or cash flows. It is highly unlikely that a change from the fair value model to the cost model 
will result in a more relevant presentation.
32  This Standard requires all entities to measure the fair value of investment property, for the purpose of either 
measurement (if the entity uses the fair value model) or disclosure (if it uses the cost model). An entity is encouraged, 
but notrequired, to measure the fair value of investment property on the basis of a valuation by an independent 
valuer who holds a recognised and relevant professional qualification and has recent experience in the location and 
category of the investment property being valued.
32A  An entity may:
(a)  choose either the fair value model or the cost model for all investment property backing liabilities 
that pay a return linked directly to the fair value of, or returns from, specified assets including that 
investment property; and
(b)  choose either the fair value model or the cost model for all other investment property, regardless of the 
choice made in (a).
32B  Some insurers and other entities operate an internal property fund that issues national units, with some units held 
by investors in linked contracts and othersheld by the entity. Paragraph 32A does not permit an entity to measure 
the property held by the fund partly at cost and partly at fair value.
32C  If an entity chooses different models for the two categories described inparagraph 32A, sales of investment property 
between pools of assets measured using different models shall be recognised at fair value and the cumulative 
change in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss. Accordingly, if an investment property is sold from a pool 
in which the fair value model is used into a pool in which the cost model is used, the property’s fair value at the 
date of the sale becomes its deemed cost.
 Fair value model
33  After initial recognition, an entity that chooses the fair value model shall measure all of its investment 
property at fair value, except in the cases described in paragraph 53.
34  [deleted] When a property interest held by a lessee under an operatinglease is classified as an investment 
property under paragraph 6,paragraph 30 is not elective; the fair value model shall be applied.
35  A gain or loss arising from a change in the fair value of investment property shall be recognised in profit or 
loss for the period in which itarises.
36–
39 [deleted]
40  When measuring the fair value of investment property in accordance with SLFRS 13, an entity shall ensure that 
the fair value reflects, among other things, rental income from current leases and other assumptions that market 
participants would use when pricing investment property under current market conditions.
40A  When a lessee uses the fair value model to measure an investment property thatis held as a right-of-use asset, it shall 
measure the right-of-use asset, and not the underlying property, at fair value.
41  Paragraph 25
SLFRS 16 specifies the basis for initial recognition of the cost of an interest in a leased property an 
investment property held by a lessee as aright-of-use asset. paragraph 33 requires the interest in the leased property 
investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset to be remeasured, ifnecessary, to fair value if the entity 

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
64A
chooses the fair value model. In a lease negotiated  When lease payments are at market rates, the fair value of 
an interestin a leased property an investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset at acquisition, net 
of all expected lease payments (including those relatingto recognised lease liabilities), should be zero. This fair 
value does not change regardless of whether, for accounting purposes, a leased asset and liability are recognised 
at fair value or at the present value of minimum lease payments, inaccordance with paragraph 20 of LKAS 17.  
Thus, remeasuring a leased right-of-useasset from cost in accordance with paragraph 25 SLFRS 16 to fair value 
in accordance with paragraph 33 (taking into account the requirements inparagraph 50) should not give rise to any 
initial gain or loss, unless fair value ismeasured at different times. This could occur when an election to apply the 
fair value model is made after initial recognition.
42–
47 [Deleted]
48  In exceptional cases, there is clear evidence when an entity first acquires an investment property (or when an 
existing property first becomes investment property after a change in use) that the variability in the range of 
reasonable fairvalue measurements will be so great, and the probabilities of the various outcomes so difficult to 
assess, that the usefulness of a single measure of fairvalue is negated. This may indicate that the fair value of the 
property will not be reliably measurable on a continuing basis (see paragraph 53).
49  [Deleted]
50  In determining the carrying amount of investment property under the fair value model, an entity does not double-
count assets or liabilities that are recognised asseparate assets or liabilities. For example:
(a)  equipment such as lifts or air-conditioning is often an integral part of a building and is generally included in 
the fair value of the investment property, rather than recognised separately as property, plant and equipment.
(b)  if an office is leased on a furnished basis, the fair value of the office generally includes the fair value of the 
furniture, because the rental income relates to the furnished office. When furniture is included in the fair 
value of investment property, an entity does not recognise that furniture as a separate asset.
(c)  the fair value of investment property excludes prepaid or accrued operating lease income, because the entity 
recognises it as a separate liability or asset.
(d)  the fair value of investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-useasset  under a lease
 reflects expected 
cash flows (including contingentrent that is variable lease payments that are expected to become payable). 
Accordingly, if a valuation obtained for a property is net of all payments expected to be made, it will be 
necessary to add back any recognised lease liability, to arrive at the carrying amount of the investment 
property using the fair value model.
51  [deleted]
52  In some cases, an entity expects that the present value of its payments relating to an investment property (other 
than payments relating to recognised liabilities) will exceed the present value of the related cash receipts. An entity 
applies LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets to determine whether to recognise a 
liability and, if so, how to measure it.
 
Inability to measure fair value reliably
53  There is a rebuttable presumption that an entity can reliably measure the fair value of an investment property 
on a continuing basis. However, inexceptional cases, there is clear evidence when an entity first acquires an 
investment property (or when an existing property first becomes investment property after a change in use) 
that the fair value of the investment property is not reliably measurable on a continuing basis. This arises 

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
65A
when, and only when, the market for comparable properties is inactive (eg there are few recent transactions, 
price quotations are not current or observed transaction prices indicate that the seller was forcedto sell) and 
alternative reliable measurements of fair value (for example, based on discounted cash flow projections) are 
not available. If an entity determines that the fair value of an investment property under construction is not 
reliably measurable but expects the fair value of the property to be reliably measurable when construction 
is complete, it shall measure that investment property under construction at cost until either its fair value 
becomes reliably measurable or construction is completed (whichever is earlier). If an entity determines 
that the fair value of an investment property (other than an investment property under construction) is not 
reliably measurable on a continuing basis, the entity shall measure that investment property using the cost 
model in LKAS 16 for owned investment property or in accordance with SLFRS 16 for investment property 
held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset. The residual value of the investment property shall be assumed to be 
zero. The entity shall continue to apply LKAS 16 or SLFRS 16 until disposal of the investment property.
53A  Once an entity becomes able to measure reliably the fair value of an investment property under construction that 
has previously been measured at cost, it shall measure that property at its fair value. Once construction of that 
property is complete, it is presumed that fair value can be measured reliably. If this is not the case, in accordance 
with paragraph 53, the property shall be accounted for using the cost model in accordance with LKAS 16 for owned 
assets or SLFRS 16 for investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset.
53B  The presumption that the fair value of investment property under construction can be measured reliably can be 
rebutted only on initial recognition. An entity that has measured an item of investment property under construction 
at fair value may not conclude that the fair value of the completed investment property cannot be measured reliably.
54  In the exceptional cases when an entity is compelled, for the reason given in paragraph 53, to measure an investment 
property using the cost model in accordance with LKAS 16 or SLFRS 16, it measures at fair value all its other 
investment property, including investment property under construction. Inthese cases, although an entity may use 
the cost model for one investment property, the entity shall continue to account for each of the remaining properties 
using the fair value model.
55  If an entity has previously measured an investment property at fair value,it shall continue to measure the 
property at fair value until disposal (or until the property becomes owner-occupied property or the entity 
begins to develop the property for subsequent sale in the ordinary course of business) even if comparable 
market transactions become less frequent or market prices become less readily available.
 
Cost model
56  After initial recognition, an entity that chooses the cost model shallmeasure all of its investment properties 
in accordance with LKAS 16’srequirements for that model, other than those that meet the criteria to be 
classified as held for sale (or are included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale) in accordance 
with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held forSale and Discontinued Operations. Investment properties that meet 
the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or are included in a disposal group that is classified as held for 
sale) shall be measured in accordance with SLFRS 5.
 After initial recognition, an entity that chooses the cost model shall measure investment property:
(a)  in accordance with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations if it meets 
the criteria to be classified asheld for sale (or is included in a disposal group that is classified as held 
for sale);
(b)  in accordance with SLFRS 16 if it is held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset and is not held for sale in 
accordance with SLFRS 5; and
(c)  in accordance with the requirements in LKAS 16 for the cost model in all other cases.

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
66A
Transfers
57  Transfers to, or from, investment property shall be made when, and only when, there is a change in use, 
evidenced by:
(a)  commencement of owner-occupation, for a transfer from investment property to owner-occupied 
property;
(b)  commencement of development with a view to sale, for a transfer from investment property to 
inventories;
(c)  end of owner-occupation, for a transfer from owner-occupied property to investment property; or
(d)  commencement of an operating lease to another party, for atransfer from inventories to investment 
property.
(e)  [deleted]
58  Paragraph 57(b) requires an entity to transfer a property from investment property to inventories when, and 
only when, there is a change in use, evidenced by commencement of development with a view to sale. When an 
entity decides to dispose of an investment property without development, it continues to treat the property as an 
investment property until it is derecognised (eliminated from the statement of financial position) and does not treat 
it as inventory. Similarly, if an entity begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future 
use as investment property, the property remains an investment property and is not reclassified asowner-occupied 
property during the redevelopment.
59  Paragraphs 60–65 apply to recognition and measurement issues that arise when an entity uses the fair value model 
for investment property. When an entity uses the cost model, transfers between investment property, owner-
occupied property and inventories do not change the carrying amount of the property transferred and they do not 
change the cost of that property for measurement or disclosure purposes.
60  For a transfer from investment property carried at fair value to owner-occupied property or inventories, the 
property’s deemed cost for subsequent accounting in accordance with LKAS 16, SLFRS 16 or LKAS 2 shall 
be its fair value at the date of change in use.
61  If an owner-occupied property becomes an investment property that will be carried at fair value, an entity 
shall apply LKAS 16 for owned property and SLFRS 16 for property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset 
up to thedate of change in use. The entity shall treat any difference at that date between the carrying amount 
of the property in accordance with LKAS 16 or SLFRS 16 and its fair value in the same way as a revaluation 
in accordance with LKAS 16.
62  Up to the date when an owner-occupied property becomes an investment property carried at fair value, an entity 
depreciates the property (or the right-of-use asset) and recognises any impairment losses that have occurred. The 
entity treats any difference at that date between the carrying amount of the property in accordance with LKAS 16 
or SLFRS 16 and its fair value in the same wayas a revaluation in accordance with LKAS 16. In other words:
(a)  any resulting decrease in the carrying amount of the property is recognised in profit or loss. However, to the 
extent that an amount is included in revaluation surplus for that property, the decrease is recognised in other 
comprehensive income and reduces the revaluation surplus within equity.

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
67A
(b)  any resulting increase in the carrying amount is treated as follows:
(i)  to the extent that the increase reverses a previous impairment loss for that property, the increase 
is recognised in profit or loss.The amount recognised in profit or loss does not exceed the amount 
needed to restore the carrying amount to the carrying amount that would have been determined (net 
of depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised.
(ii)  any remaining part of the increase is recognised in other comprehensive income and increases the 
revaluation surplus within equity. On subsequent disposal of the investment property, the revaluation 
surplus included in equity may be transferred to retained earnings. The transfer from revaluation 
surplus to retained earnings is not made through profit or loss.
63  For a transfer from inventories to investment property that will be carried at fair value, any difference 
between the fair value of the property at that date and its previous carrying amount shall be recognised in 
profit or loss.
64  The treatment of transfers from inventories to investment property that will be carried at fair value is consistent 
with the treatment of sales of inventories.
65  When an entity completes the construction or development of aself-constructed investment property that 
will be carried at fair value, any difference between the fair value of the property at that date and its previous 
carrying amount shall be recognised in profit or loss.
Disposals
66  An investment property shall be derecognised (eliminated from the statement of financial position) on 
disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic 
benefits are expected from its disposal.
67  The disposal of an investment property may be achieved by sale or by entering into a finance lease. The date of 
disposal for investment property that is sold is the date the recipient obtains control of the investment property 
in accordance with the requirements for determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in SLFRS 15.            
LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16 applies to a disposal effected by entering into a finance lease and to a sale and leaseback.
68  If, in accordance with the recognition principle in paragraph 16, an entity recognises in the carrying amount of 
an asset the cost of a replacement for part of an investment property, it derecognises the carrying amount of the 
replaced part. For investment property accounted for using the cost model, a replaced part may not be a part that 
was depreciated separately. If it is not practicable for an entity to determine the carrying amount of the replaced 
part, it may use the cost of the replacement as an indication of what the cost of the replaced part was at the time 
it was acquired or constructed. Under the fair value model, the fair value of the investment property may already 
reflect that the part to be replaced has lost its value. In other cases it may be difficult to discern how much fair value 
should be reduced for the part being replaced. An alternative to reducing fair value for the replaced part, when it 
is not practical to do so, is to include the cost of the replacement in the carrying amount of the asset and then to 
reassess the fair value, as would be required for additions not involving replacement.
69  Gains or losses arising from the retirement or disposal of investment property shall be determined as the 
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and shall be recognised 
in profit or loss (unless LKAS 17
 SLFRS 16 requires otherwise on a sale and leaseback) in the period of the 
retirement or disposal.
70  The amount of consideration to be included in the gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an investment 
property is determined in accordance with the requirements for determining the transaction price in paragraphs 

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
68A
47–72 of SLFRS 15. Subsequent changes to the estimated amount of the consideration included in the gain or loss 
shall be accounted for in accordance with the requirements for changes in the transaction price in SLFRS 15.
71  An entity applies LKAS 37 or other Standards, as appropriate, to any liabilities that it retains after disposal of an 
investment property.
72  Compensation from third parties for investment property that was impaired, lost or given up shall be 
recognised in profit or loss when the compensation becomes receivable.
73  Impairments or losses of investment property, related claims for or payments ofcompensation from third parties and 
any subsequent purchase or construction of replacement assets are separate economic events and are accounted for 
separately as follows:
(a)  impairments of investment property are recognised in accordance with LKAS 36;
(b)  retirements or disposals of investment property are recognised in accordance with paragraphs 66–71 of this 
Standard;
(c)  compensation from third parties for investment property that was impaired, lost or given up is recognised in 
profit or loss when it becomes receivable; and
(d)  the cost of assets restored, purchased or constructed as replacements is determined in accordance with 
paragraphs 20–29 of this Standard.
Disclosure
 Fair value model and cost model
74  The disclosures below apply in addition to those in LKAS 17 SLFRS 16. In accordance with LKAS 17 SLFRS 16, 
the owner of an investment property provides lessors’disclosures about leases into which it has entered. An entity A 
lessee that holds an investment property as a right-of-use asset under a finance or operating lease provides lessees’ 
disclosures as required by SLFRS 16 for finance leases and lessors’disclosures as required by SLFRS 16 for any 
operating leases into which it has entered.
75  An entity shall disclose:
(a)  whether it applies the fair value model or the cost model.
(b)  [deleted] if it applies the fair value model, whether, and in what circumstances, property interests held 
under operating leases are classified and accounted for as investment property.
(c)  when classification is difficult (see paragraph 14), the criteria it uses to distinguish investment property 
from owner-occupied property and from property held for sale in the ordinary course of business.
(d)  [deleted]
(e)  the extent to which the fair value of investment property (as measured or disclosed in the financial 
statements) is based on a valuation by an independent valuer who holds a recognised and relevant 
professional qualification and has recent experience in the location and category of the investment 
property being valued. If there has been no such valuation, that fact shall be disclosed.

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
69A
(f)  the amounts recognised in profit or loss for:
 (i)  rental income from investment property;
 (ii)  direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising from investment property 
that generated rental income during the period;
 (iii)  direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising from investment property 
that did not generate rental income during the period; and
 (iv)  the cumulative change in fair value recognised in profit or loss on a sale of investment property 
from a pool of assets in which the cost model is used into a pool in which the fair value model is 
used (see paragraph 32C).
(g)  the existence and amounts of restrictions on the realisability of investment property or the remittance 
of income and proceeds of disposal.
(h)  contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for repairs, 
maintenance or enhancements.
 
Fair value model
76  In addition to the disclosures required by paragraph 75, an entity that applies the fair value model in 
paragraphs 33–55 shall disclose a reconciliation between the carrying amounts of investment property at 
the beginning and end of the period, showing the following:
(a)  additions, disclosing separately those additions resulting from acquisitions and those resulting from 
subsequent expenditure recognised in the carrying amount of an asset;
(b)  additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations;
(c)  assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group classified as held for sale in accordance 
with SLFRS 5 and other disposals;
(d)  net gains or losses from fair value adjustments;
(e)  the net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements into a different 
presentation currency, and on translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency of the 
reporting entity;
(f)  transfers to and from inventories and owner-occupied property;and
(g)  other changes.
77  When a valuation obtained for investment property is adjusted significantly for the purpose of the financial 
statements, for example to avoid double-counting of assets or liabilities that are recognised as separate assets 
and liabilities as described in paragraph 50, the entity shall disclose a reconciliation between the valuation 
obtained and the adjusted valuation included in the financial statements, showing separately the aggregate 
amount of any recognised lease obligations 
 liabilities that have been added back, and any other significant 
adjustments.
78  In the exceptional cases referred to in paragraph 53, when an entity measures investment property using the 
cost model in LKAS 16 or in accordance with SLFRS 16, the reconciliation required by paragraph 76 shall 

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
70A
disclose amounts relating to that investment property separately from amounts relating to other investment 
property. In addition, an entity shall disclose:
(a)  a description of the investment property;
(b)  an explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably;
(c)  if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie; and
(d)  on disposal of investment property not carried at fair value:
 (i)  the fact that the entity has disposed of investment property not carried at fair value;
 (ii)  the carrying amount of that investment property at the time of sale; and
 (iii)  the amount of gain or loss recognised.
 Cost model
79  In addition to the disclosures required by paragraph 75, an entity that applies the cost model in paragraph 
56 shall disclose:
(a)  the depreciation methods used;
(b)  the useful lives or the depreciation rates used;
(c)  the gross carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation (aggregated with accumulated 
impairment losses) at the beginning and end of the period;
(d)  a reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment property at the beginning and end of the period, 
showing the following:
 (i)  additions, disclosing separately those additions resulting from acquisitions and those resulting 
from subsequent expenditure recognised as an asset;
 (ii)  additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations;
 (iii)  assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposalgroup classified as held for sale in 
accordance with SLFRS 5 and other disposals;
 (iv)  depreciation;
 (v)  the amount of impairment losses recognised, and the amount of impairment losses reversed, 
during the period in accordance with LKAS 36;
 (vi)  the net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements into a different 
presentation currency, and on translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency 
of the reporting entity;
 (vii)  transfers to and from inventories and owner-occupied property; and
 (viii) other changes.
 

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
71A
(e)  the fair value of investment property. In the exceptional cases described in paragraph 53, when an 
entity cannot measure the fair value of the investment property reliably, it shall disclose:
 (i)  a description of the investment property;
 (ii)  an explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably; and
 (iii)  if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie.
Transitional provisions
 Fair value model
80  An entity that has previously applied LKAS 40  and elects for the first time to classify and account for some 
or all eligible property interests held under operating leases as investment property shall recognise theeffect 
of that election as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for the period in which the 
election is first made. Inaddition:
(a)  if the entity has previously disclosed publicly (in financial statements or otherwise) the fair value of 
those property interests in earlier periods (measured on a basis that satisfies the definition of fair value 
in SLFRS 13), the entity is encouraged, but not required:
 (i)  to adjust the opening balance of retained earnings for the earliest period presented for which 
such fair value was disclosed publicly; and
 (ii)  to restate comparative information for those periods; and
(b)  if the entity has not previously disclosed publicly the information described in (a), it shall not restate 
comparative information and shall disclose that fact.
81  This Standard requires a treatment different from that required by LKAS 8. LKAS 8 requires comparative 
information to be restated unless such restatement isimpracticable.
82  When an entity first applies this Standard, the adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings includes the 
reclassification of any amount held inrevaluation surplus for investment property.
 Cost model
83  LKAS 8 applies to any change in accounting policies that is made when an entity first applies this Standard and 
chooses to use the cost model. The effect of the change in accounting policies includes the reclassification of any 
amount held in revaluation surplus for investment property.
84  The requirements of paragraphs 27–29 regarding the initial measurement of an investment property 
acquired in an exchange of assets transaction shall be applied prospectively only to future transactions.
 Business Combinations
84A  Improvements to SLFRSs issued in September 2014 added paragraph 14A and a heading before paragraph 
6. An entity shall apply that amendment prospectively for acquisitions of investment property from the 
beginning of the first period for which it adopts that amendment. Consequently, accounting for acquisitions 
of investment property in prior periods shall not be adjusted. However, an entity may choose to apply the 
amendment to individual acquisitions of investment property that occurred prior to the beginning of the 

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.09.2016
72A
first annual period occurring on or after the effective date if, and only if, information needed to apply the 
amendment to those earlier transactions is available to the entity.
 SLFRS 16
84B  An entity applying SLFRS 16, and its related amendments to this Standard,for the first time shall apply the 
transition requirements in Appendix C of SLFRS 16 to its investment property held as a right-of-use asset.
Effective date
85  An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2012. Earlier application is 
encouraged. If an entity applies this Standard for a period beginning before 1 January 2012, it shall disclose that 
fact.
85A  [deleted]
85B  [deleted]
85C  SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended the definition of fair value in paragraph 5,amended paragraphs 26, 29, 
32, 40, 48, 53, 53B, 78–80 and 85B and deleted paragraphs 36–39, 42–47, 49, 51 and 75(d). An entity shall apply 
those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.
85d  Annual Improvements to SLFRSs - 2014 issued in September 2014 added headings before paragraph 6 and after 
paragraph 84 and added paragraphs 14A and 84A.An entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 July 2014. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an 
earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
85e  SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amendedparagraphs 3(b), 9, 67 and 70. 
An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.
85F  SLFRS 16, issued in April 2016, amended the scope of LKAS 40 by defining investment property to include both 
owned investment property and property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset. SLFRS 16 amended paragraphs 5, 
7, 8, 9, 16,20, 30, 41, 50, 53, 53A, 54, 56, 60, 61, 62, 67, 69, 74, 75, 77 and 78, added paragraphs 19A, 29A, 40A 
and 84B and its related heading and deleted paragraphs 3, 6, 25, 26 and 34. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 16.
09–680
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.