

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1768$17 – 2012 cQ,s 25 jeks nodod – 2012'07'25
No. 1768/17 – WEDNESDAY, JULY  25, 2012
1A - G16358-360(2012/07)
My No.: CI/05. 
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, No. 21, Sri Razik Fareed Mawatha, (Formerly Bristol
Street), Colombo 01 of the one part and the Ceylon  Bank Employees' Union, No. 20, Temple Road, Colombo 10 of the other part on 12th
day of January 2012,  regarding the Executive Assistants and Allied Grades  is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the I ndustrial
Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
M. D. CHANDANI AMARATHUNGA,
Acting Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
12th July, 2012.
Collective Agreement No. 03 of 2012
COMMERCIAL BANK OF CEYLON PLC, COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
JUNIOR EXECUTIVE ASSISTANTS AND ALLIED GRADES
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made on this 12th day of January, 2012, between Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC, a Bank duly
registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered office at 21, Sri Razik Fareed Mawatha (Formerly Bristol Street).  Colombo 01. (hereinafter
referred to as ‘the Bank’),
of the One Part
AND
The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union, a Trade Union duly registered in Sri Lanka and having its registered Office at 20, Temple Roa d,
Colombo 10, (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’)
of the Other Part.
WITH a view to a revision of the terms and conditions of the Junior Executive Assistants and Allied Grades employed by the Bank  an
agreement has now been reached between the said two parties for the purpose of ensuring better employee terms and conditions, cooperation

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
between the Bank, the Union and the employees and maintaining and efficient and productive working environment and  the matters agreed
upon are set out hereunder ;
1. Parties to be Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC (the Bank), The
Ceylon Bank Employees Union (the Union) and members of the Union employed on permanent monthly contracts of employment by the
Bank in the grade of Junior Executive Assistants for whom  salary ranges have been prescribed in this agreement in the  Schedule (1) hereto
(hereinafter referred to as the employees). Subject to the provisions of clauses 5, 6 hereof.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be in force the 1st January 2012 and shall continue until either party
terminates it by written notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act but no such notice shall be given before the 31
st December 2014. The
Union shall, however, have the right to commence negotiations for a revised Collective  Agreement at any time on or after 1st April 2014.
3. Earlier Agreements.– This Agreement shall supersede any other Collective Agreement  entered into or binding on the parties
hereto and such earlier Agreements including the Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC Collective Agreement  for Junior Executive Assistants
entered into on 31st March 2009 between the parties hereto ( Agreement No. 28 of 2010) shall stand repudiated.
4. Matters Covered and Bound.–
(a) This Agreement shall be in full and final settlement of all matters covered herein as well as of all the matters raised by the
Union and in respect of which negotiations took place between the parties before the conclusion of this Agreement and
the Union agrees that it will not during the continuance in force of this Agreement raise any of the matters which were
discussed and negotiated between the parties preceding this Agreement except to the extent agreed.
(b) The Union and its members shall not during the continuance in force of this Agreement seek to very, alter or add to all or
any of the terms and conditions of employment or benefits presently applicable or enjoyed as provided for in this
Agreement other than by mutual agreement with the Bank.
5. Consolidated Salary.– Employees covered by this Agreement in service as at the  date of this Agreement shall, from the 1
st
January 2012 be placed on the salary ranges set out in the Schedule I hereto, subject to the applicability or otherwise of a pe nsion to and
employee in the manner set out in clause 6 (i) and (ii) hereof.
The employees entitled to a salary revision with effect from the date of this Agreement will receive such revision with effect from
1st January 2012 along with EPF and ETF payments
6. Immediate Increase and Conversion to Salaries.–
For the placement of an employee on the salary ranges applicable in the First Schedule, the following provisions shall apply.
(i) (a)  in the first year of operation of this Agreement, Employees who are in the non-pensionable categories, as set out in Schedule
I hereto, and whose salaries are below the minimum setout therein shall be first placed at the minimum rate of Rs. 34,000/= per
mensem with effect from 1st January 2012.
(b) The minimum salary of all employees who come to this category from 2nd January 2012 will be placed at Rs. 30,000/= per
mensem and such salary will be increased to Rs. 34,000/= upon confirmation in the Grade.
(ii) A sum equal  to 8% of the gross salary paid as at December 2011 or as adjusted in accordance with(i) (a) above shall be added
to the salaries of such employees with effect from 1st january 2012.
(iii) In addition, all employees covered under this Agreement will be entitled to a service increment as follows.
No. of completed years as at 01/ 01/ 2012 Amount (Rs.)
in the Junior Executive Assistant Grade
1 Year 500/=
2 Years 1,500/=
3 Years 3,000/=
4 Years 3,500/=
5 Years and above 5,000/=
(iv) Every employee in employment as at the date of this Agreement shall also receive a further 7% increase calculated on the gross
salary as at December 2012  with effect from the 1st January 2013, and thereafter placed within the salary ranges applicable
to him as set out in  Schedule I.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
3A
(v) Every employee in employment in a grade covered by this Agreement and having served in such grade for a period of not less
than twelve (12) completed months shall also receive a further 7% increase calculated on the gross salary as at December 2013
with effect from the  1st January 2014, and thereafter placed within the salary ranges applicable  as set out in the Schedule I.
(vi) Employees will not be entitled to receive any payments by way of a cost of living allowance.
7. Allowances.–
(a)
TRAVELLING  ALLOWANCE .– Each employee shall be entitled to receive a travelling allowance of Rs 2,000/- per mensem.
(b) HOLIDAY  ALLOWANCE .– Each employee shall be entitled to receive a holiday allowance of Rs 18,000/- on account of
expenses incurred on a holiday during not less than ten consecutive days of annual leave taken in any year.
(c) DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCE.– An employee who will be required to report to work at the following times will be entitled
to a Disturbance Allowance as follows..
Before 4.00 a.m. Rs. 600 / =
Before 5.00 a.m. Rs. 525 / =
Before 6.00 a.m. Rs. 475 / =
Before 7.00 a.m. Rs. 265 / =
Before 7.30 a.m. Rs. 180 / =
8. Increments / Incremental Date .–
(a) The annual increments due to an employee will be determined in terms of the relevant grading in the annual performance
appraisal applicable to such employees and the increment granted shall be as follows ;
(i) Satisfactory performance - Rs. 350/-
(ii) Good performance - Rs. 450/-
(iii) Superior performance - Rs. 550/-
(iv) Outstanding performance - Rs. 650/-
The increment of Rs. 350/- will be granted unless it is otherwise withheld on account of disciplinary reasons.
(b) The effective dates of annual increments of employees subject to the period during which their annual increment falls due will
be as follows ;
(i) 1st January
(ii) 1st  April
(iii) 1st  July
(iv) 1st  October
9. Career Progression Scheme for Secretarial Assistants.–
1. Promotion from Grade I to Grade II
(a) A Secretarial Assistant who completes 7 years in Secretarial Assistant Grade I or a combination of 7 years as a Stenographer
and a Secretarial Assistant , provided she has a minimum of 4 years experience as a Secretarial Assistant, shall be promoted
to Grade II after an application made by the employee. However, that promotiom to Grade II will not be automatic but will
depend on a consistently good record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality, or
(b) Employees who sit and successfully pass the examination of the Academy for administrative Professionals or the Internal
Efficiency bar/ aptitude test will be considered for placement of Grade II, subject to the conditions referred to at (i) and (ii)
hereunder, provided, however, that their past record of overall performance, attendance and conduct as assessed by the
Bank justifies such consideration.
(i) on successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice conducted by the Academy for
Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/ Aptitude Test set by the Bank plus five completed years of
service in the Secretarial Assistant grade I, or
(ii) on successful completion of the part II of the Examination of the Diploma in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage
II conducted by the  Academy for Administrative Professionals plus four completed years of service in the Secretarial
Assistant grade I.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
(c) On promotion to Grade II an employee shall receive not less than the value of two increments in Grade I entitled for
“Satisfactory” rating when placed in Grade II.
2. Promotion from Grade II to III. -
The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a Secretarial Assistant from Grade II to III after an application made
by the employee. However, that promotion to Grade II will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good record of
work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
(a) Any Secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven years in Grade II shall be placed on Grade III or,
(b) on successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage I conducted by the Academy
for Administrative Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/ Aptitude Test set by the Bank plus five completed years of
service in the Secretarial Assistant grade II, or
(c) on successful completion of the Diploma in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage II conducted by the  Academy for
Administrative Professionals plus four complete years of service in the Secretarial Assistant grade II.
(d) On promotion to Grade III an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value
of two increments in Grade II, entitled for “Satisfactory” rating.
3. Promotion from Grade III to IV. -
The following principles shall apply to the promotion of a Secretarial Assistant from Grade III to IV after an application
made by the employee. However, that promation to Grade IV will not be automatic but will depend on a consistently good
record of work, conduct, attendance and punctuality.
(a) Any Secretarial Assistant who shall have completed seven years in Grade III shall be placed on Grade IV or,
(b) On successful completion of the Diploma in Secretarial Administrative Practice Stage II conducted by the  Academy for
Administrative Professionals plus four complete years of service in the Secretarial Assistant grade III or.
(c) On successful completion of the Certificate Course in Secretarial Administrative conducted by the Academy for Administra-
tive Professionals or passes the Efficiency Bar/ Aptitude Test set by the Bank. Plus five years of services in grade III.
(d) On promotion to Grade IV an employee will be placed on a point which will result in an increase of not less than the value
of two increments in Grade III, entitled for “Satisfactory” rating.
10. Re-designation of Secretarial Assistants to Junior Executive Assistant Grade.–
A Secretarial Assistant shall be considered for re-designation as Junior Executive Assistant provided he/she possesses the
following eligibility requirements:
(a) Three years combined service  in both Typist and Secretarial Assistant Grades and passing the Intermediate / Certificate in
Banking and Finance Examination of the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka.
(b) On completion of the Final Examination -Diploma in Banking and Finance of the Institute of Bankers of Srilanka.
(c) Six years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial Assistant Grades and the relevant qualification for entry as a Junior
Executive Assistant.
(d) Six years combined service in both Typist and Secretarial Assistant Grades without the requisite qualification for entry as a
Junior Executive Assistant but subject to success at a written examination and IT practical test conducted by the Bank or on
confirmation from the respective Branch Managers / Heads of Department that the employee concerned is suitable for re-
designation and has been performing duties of a Junior Executive Assistant for four (4) consecutive years and the successful
completion of the practical test and interview conducted by the Bank.
Provided that where an employee is promoted as a Junior Executive Assistant under sub-clause (a) above,  he/ she shall have
three (3) years service and the required qualifications or have six (6) years service as a Junior Executive Assistant to be
considered for promotion thereafter.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
5A
11. Provident Fund.–
(a) RATE OF CONTRIBUTION . -
The rates of contribution to the Provident Fund by the Bank shall be :
Bank’s contribution - 12% (twelve per cent) of salary
Employee’s contribution - 8% (eight per cent) of salary
Provident Fund contribution shall be on the consolidated salary referred to at Clause 5 hereof subject to the Rules of the Provident Fund.
(b) INTEREST ON PROVIDENT FUND CONTRIBUTION HELD  BY THE BANK.– Where Provident Fund monies are invested in the
Bank, the Bank shall continue to pay the rate of interest paid or 12 months’ fixed deposits for a sum of Rs. 100,000/= published
by the N.S.B. prevailing as the 1st January for the first half of the year and on the rate prevailing on the 1st July for the second
half of the year on the net Provident Fund monies invested at the Bank.
(c) DEFICIENCY IN BANK’S CONTRIBUTIONS TO PROVIDENT FUND TO AN EMPLOYEE NOT ENTITLED TO A PENSION .–
Where an employee shall cease to be employed by the Bank and such employee is not entitled to  a pension or payment in lieu of
pension as the case may be, such employee shall be entitled to the difference between the Bank’s contributions made to the  Fund
during his period of service and the employer’s minimum rate of contribution he would have been entitled to, in terms of the
Employees’ Provident Fund Act and its amendments from time to time as a contribution to the Fund by the employer on behalf
of such employee. Such deficiency will be the difference between the following minimum rates of contribution under the Act and
10% of basic salary actually contributed by the Bank up to 31 st March 1992.
From 01.01.1971 to 31.12.1980 - 9% of gross salary
From 01.01.1981 onwards - 12% of gross salary
Prior to 31.12.1970 the employer’s minimum rate of contribution was 6% of total earnings (gross salary) which was less than
10% of basic salary and therefore no deficiency arises.
12. Terminal Benefits.–
(a)
PENSIONS.– An employee entitled to a pension in expressed terms of his/ her letter of appointment to the position of
junior Executive Assistant with the Bank, shall, upon reaching the retirement age of the Bank and who is in the permanent
employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed not less than 10 years of actual continuous service
(excluding absence/ leave without pay), be entitled to a monthly pension computed on the following basis :
(i)  Employees opting to retire at 55 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years
          55
(ii)  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years
60
(b)
PREMATURE RETIREMENT ON MEDICAL GROUNDS /  DISABILITY.– An employee entitled to a pension in expressed
terms of his letter of appointment to the position of Junior Executive Assistant with the Bank and who is found to be unable
to continue to perform his duties as a result of infirmity/ disability, as certified by the Bank's Doctor/ Medical Specialist/
Government Medical Board, and who is in the permanent employment of the Bank at such time, and shall have completed
not less than 10 years of actual continuous service (excluding absence/ leave without pay) shall be entitled to a pension
computed on the same basis referred to at clause 11 (a) above. Provided, however, that where an employee is entitled to
compensation by the Bank under any laws in force at the time or An Award of Court, such employee shall only be entitled
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
°
°

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
to a pension or such compensation as opted by him, but not to both. Provided further that in the case of an employee whose
premature retirement occurred in consequence of an accident which entitled him to compensation, the pre - acceptance of
pension as provided herein will not restrict the right of such employee in subsequently claiming any balance compensation
under any written law.
(c)
LUMP SUM GRATUITY IN LIEU OF PENSION RIGHTS.– An employee who is entitled to receive a pension in expressed
terms of (a) or (b) above may at his discretion opt for the payment of a lump sum gratuity in lieu of his pension and any other
payments arising therefrom. The payment will be computed on the following basis :
(i) Employees opting to retire at 55 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 35 years) plus 5 years
(ii)  Employees opting to retire at 60 years
Number of completed years of
pensionable service (subject to a
maximum of 40 years) plus 5 years
The above payment shall constitute a settlement in full and final satisfaction of all claims against the Bank on account of the cessation of
employment in respect of gratuity, pension, deficiency (if any), in the Bank's contribution to Provident Fund to an employee not paid a pension
in terms of Clause 11.
(d)
DEATH GRATUITY .– On the death of an employee who has been confirmed and is in the permanent employment of the
Bank, the Banks will make a compassionate payment of two Months gross salary for each year of completed service subject
to a minimum of nine month’s gross salary to the legitimate dependents of the deceased employee, as may be determined by
the Bank at its sole discretion on the basis of information supplied to them. In the case of the death of an employee who is
not confirmed in employment the amount payable will be 50% of that payable to a confirmed employee provided that in the
case of an employee who has not been confirmed consequent upon a promotion to a higher grade, the gratuity payable will
be calculated as in the case of a confirmed employee. The gross salary for this purpose shall be the last drawn salary.
Provided, however, that in the event of death arising out of and in the course of employment, the dependents shall be entitled
to and receive either the death gratuity referred to herein or payment by way of compensation under any laws in force at the
time on account of Employees’ Compensation or under any other law or an Award of Court, whichever is higher. Provided
further that in the case of an employee whose death occurred in consequence, the pre-acceptance of death gratuity as
provided herein shall not restrict the right of such dependents in subsequently claiming any balance compensation due to
them under any written law.
(e)
GRATUITY ON RESIGNATION/ TERMINATION PRIOR TO RETIREMENT. – An employee shall, upon  resignation/
termination of employment prior to retirement in circumstances which do not entitle him to the terminal benefits referred to
at the aformentioned Clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) be entitled to a gratuity computed in terms of the Payment of Gratuity Act
(1983), which shall be paid within 30 days of the cessation of employment.
The salary for this purpose shall comprise the salary referred to at Clause 5.
(f) Completed years of actual service shall include only actual continuous service worked excluding absence/ leave without
pay, but subject  to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act (1983) and Clause 22 thereof.
(g)
COMMUTED PENSION.–
(i) An employee entitled to a pension in terms of (a) and (b) above, may at the time of retirement exercise the option to
accept a sum of 25% of his monthly pension multiplied by one hundred and twenty (120) by way of a lump sum.
(ii) Where an employee commutes his monthly pension in the manner aforesaid, the monthly pension payable to him during
the first ten years of retirement will be 75% of the monthly pension he would have been entitled to at the time of
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
Monthly  Gross salary
payable for  the month
of Retirement
°
°

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
7A
retirement if he had not so commuted his pension. After the expiry of the ten years the amount of the monthly pension
so commuted will be restored and added to the monthly pension then being paid.
(h) ALTERNATE TERMINAL BENEFIT PLAN.–
(i) An employee who opted for the Alternate Terminal Benefit Plan under the Re-structured Pension Scheme offered by
the Bank will not be entitled to a monthly pension on reaching the agreed retirement age nor will such employee be
entitled to any statutory gratuity which is built-in to the terminal benefits lump-sum payable under the re-structured
scheme at the time of retirement/separation.
(ii) Further, as per the Re-structured Pension Scheme, in the event of early separation prior to retirement (excluding death)
an employee will be entitled to withdraw the accumulated amount in the Defined Contribution Fund Account, subject
to rules of the Fund on forfeiture.
(iii) However, in the event of death of an eligible employee whilst in service, the full accumulation will be released to the
nominated party/parties or legal heirs.
13. Medical Scheme.–
(i) REIMBURSEMENT OF MEDICAL EXPENSES FOR NON-HOSPITALISATION EXPENSES.–  The Bank will reimburse an
employee up to a maximum of Rs. 16, 500/ =  in respect of medical expenditure incurred by him on his own behalf, on behalf
of his spouse or unmarried legitimate children under the age of 18 in respect of routine non-hospitalisation/ non - surgical
and specialist treatment, and subject to the following :
(a) All medical claims shall be supported by valid and relevant prescriptions, bills and receipts.
(b) Prescriptions or Doctor’s bills are from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(c) The unutilised portion of the allocation for the year could be utilised during a period of three years subject to valid bills
being submitted as aforesaid.
An employee who has a differently abled child/children is entitled to receive Rs. 30,000/= per annum as medical
expenses in addition to the amount specified above, subject to the recommendation of the Medical Board and registra-
tion with the Compensation and Benefits Unit of the Bank.
(ii) SPECIAL NON - HOSPITALISATION AND NON - SURGICAL EXPENDITURE.–  The Bank will reimburse an employee
on a non - cumulative basis a further sum as given below per annum on account of special non - hospitalisation and non -
surgical expenses covering the following items only incurred on behalf of the employee and not on behalf of his family
members in keeping with existing practice.
(a) Spectacles - Rs. 12,500/-
(b) Dentures/ Nerve Filling/ Roof Filling - Rs. 8,500/-
(c) Hearing Aids - Rs. 12,500/-
Subject to valid documentation as in the case of (i) above and subject to the provisions that no claim is made in relation to
any particular item more than once in three years other than in the case of employees over the age of 45 years who will be
entitled to reimbursements on account of spectacles once in two years. In respect of spectacles, it must be supported by a
prescription from a medical eye specialist.
(iii) SURGICAL AND HOSPITALISATION EXPENDITURE .–  Employees will be reimbursed on account of surgical and
hospitalisation (whether Government or Private) expenses incurred on behalf of the employee, his spouse and unmarried
legitimate children under 21 years of age subject to the production of valid documentation covering every claim or
expenditure, up to  the following limits per annum :
(a) Hospital or Nursing Room Charges:
Daily Limit - Rs. 6,000/-
Government Hospital Allowance - Rs. 1,000/-
The Bank will reimburse the actual room charges in the event the patient has undergone intensive care treatment.
(b) Emergency Treatment Travel expenses (maximum) - Rs. 2,500/-
The rate is Rs. 30/- per kilometer
(c) Overall Limit for any one year - Rs. 165,000/-

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
Where the employee is aged 40 years or above, expenses he/she incurs on account of full body medical checkups,
without being admitted to a hospital will be reimbursed up to a maximum of Rs. 12,000/- per annum under this
entitlement.
(iv)
GENERAL .–
If both husband and wife are employees, and the bill exceeds the limit of one employee, the balance to be paid from of the
spouse's entitlement subject to a maximum of 50% of the full entitlement/ available limit.
Normal child birth will be included for reimbursement under medical expenses subject to the above limits up to times (2) two
The Schedule II hereto sets out the terms on which reimbursement of medical expenditure will be effected.
14. Retirement.–
(a) The age of retirement shall be 60 years, or any other age mutually agreed to between the Bank and its employees, and on
reaching the age of 60, or any other age mutually agreed upon, an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed
by the Bank and there shall be no obligation on the Bank to give such employee any notice of such retirement.
(b) An employee may also be retired within a period of 05 years prior to his retirement age and be eligible for retirement
benefits if he has(10) or more years of service, subject to mutual agreement between the employee, his Union and the
employer that he should be given such concession and subject to the condition that the refusal by any party to agree to
such premature retirement shall not constitute an industrial dispute.
15. Bonus.– Without prejudice to the claim of the Bank that bonus payments are ex-gratia , the Bank will each year pay to every
employee covered by this Agreement a bonus of two months’ salary as drawn by such employee for the month of December in respect of
one complete year of service meaning January to December and proportionately for service less than one year at the rate of one-twelfth of
such entitlement in respect of each complete month of service.
16. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Bank will serve a period of six months probation subject to the right of the Bank
to extend the period of probation by a period of three months.
17. Release of Parent Union Office Bearers.–
An office bearer of the Union shall be released for Union work without payment of any salary, allowance or any other
payment of whatever nature on the following basis:
(a) The total number of Office Bearers so released shall not exceed one
(b) No employee shall be released for more than two years on a single occasion during a period of six (6) years.
(c) On resumption of work by an Office Bearer who has been released for Union work, he shall receive incremental credit
for the period of his absence from work and such absence shall not affect his rights under Clause 11 hereof.
18. Concessions to Branch Union Office Bearers and General Councillors.–
(a) The Bank shall at its discretion permit the release of not more than two Branch Union Office Bearers at any one given
occasion  without loss of pay exclusively to enable such Branch Union Office Beareres to be present at inquiries before
the Labour Department, Labour Tribunal, Arbitrations, Industrial Courts, and with the Bank Management - exclusively
on matters pertaining to the Bank.
(b) It is agreed that General Council Members of the Union will be permitted to leave at 12.00 noon. on 12 days in a year for
General Council meetings. In the case of outstation General  Council Members, they would be permitted leave for the whole
day for 12 General Council Meetings in a year. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30)
miles from Colombo.
(c) It is agreed that a day’s paid leave shall be granted on two occasions per year to General Councillors to attend Parent Union
General Council meetings.
(d) It is agreed that Executive Committee members will be released at 3.00 p.m. for meetings of the Executive Committee of
the Union. These meetings will not usually be more than on a monthly basis.
(e) it is agreed that the Bank will release without loss of pay up to a maximum of one day, once in two years, all employees
in the membership of the Central Committee of the Union and the union Branch Delegates in the Bank, to attend the
National Delegates Conference of the Union provided however, that the Bank is given two weeks written notice of the
Conference and not more than one employee attached to any single branch/ department of the Bank is so released.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
9A
19. Special Leave to Visit Outstation Branches.– The Bank shall permit office bearers of the Union employed by the Bank paid leave
to visit outstation branches calculated on the basis of a day’s leave available for each such branch, i.e., if there are X branches the total number
of days paid leave available shall also be X. For this purpose an outstation Branch is one situated more than thirty (30) miles from Colombo.
20. Special Payments.–
(a) OUT OF POCKET ALLOWANCE.–
An employee required to work outside normal working hours on a weekday will be entitled to an Out of Pocket Allowance of
Rs. 175/= per each completed hour up to a maximum of 4 hours.
An employee, working on a weekday after 8.30 p.m. shall be entitled to a Dinner Allowance of Rs. 200/=.
(b) WORK ON HOLIDAYS
An employee will be entitled to an Out of Pocket Allowance of Rs. 200/= per hour during work on holidays, provided such
employee has completed a minimum of 3 hours of work. This entitlement is available up to a maximum of 10 hours.
No employee will be entitled to a separate Meal/ Dinner Allowance for work on holidays.
(c) MINICOM CENTERS/ SATURDAY BANKING/ 365 DAYS BANKING
An employee will be entitled to an Out of Pocket Allowance of Rs. 250/= per hour during work on holidays, provided such
employee has completed a minimum of 3 hours of work. This entitlement is available up to a maximum of 10 hours.
In the event a branch not carrying out Saturday or 365 day Banking, is directed by the Bank to be opened for business on a
holiday, employees who report at the Branch on account thereof will also be entitled to claim Out of pocket Allowance as
specified above.
In respect of staff working at Minicoms the maximum number of hours for the purpose of this allowance shall be eleven (11)
instead of ten (10) hours referred to above.
No employee will be entitled to a separate Meal/ Dinner Allowance for work on weekends/ holidays.
(d) IT STAFF SHIFT ALLOWANCE
Weekdays (additional shift)
An employee having to work additional hours on weekdays will be entitled to a Shift Allowance of Rs. 200/= per hour
An employee working on a weekday after 8.30 pm shall be entitled to a Dinner Allownce of Rs. 200/-
No other allowance will be applicable in addition to the above payment.
Holidays (day shift)
An employee having to work on holidays will be entitled to a Shift Allowance of Rs. 230/= per hour.
No other allowance will be applicable in addition to the above payment.
Holidays (night shift)
An employee will be entitled to a Shift Allowance of Rs. 250/= per hour during night work on holidays,
Night Shift Allowance (Weekdays/ Weekends).–
Any employee is required to work during nights, will be entitled to a Night Shift Allowance of Rs. 400/- per night in addition
to the above.
21. Professional Association Membership.–
(i) In respect of full membership in the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka or the Indian Institute of Banking & Finance, the Bank
will reimburse the employee the sum paid by way of annual subscription.
(ii) Provided also, in the event of the Bank requiring an employee to obtain any qualifications of a recognised professional
organization, other than Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka, and the employee fulfils such requirement, the Bank shall pay
subject to the recommendation of the respective Deputy General Manager and the approval of Deputy General Manager -
Human Resource Management the cost of such course/ examination as well as annual subscription as relevant on behalf of
such employee to such professional organization.
2A – G16358

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
22. Leave.- An employee will be entitled to leave as applicable to the Executive staff of the Bank. i.e. 7 days of Casual Leave, 24 days
of Medical Leave and one calendar month (30 days) of Annual Leave, subject to the procedure of granting of the said leave.
(a) ANNUAL LEAVE.–
(i) ENTITLEMENT.– In respect of each year of employment (which means the period January to December) during
which an employee has been in continuous employment he shall be entitled to take in the following year up to one
calendar month of paid leave. He shall avail himself of at least 10 days out of the calendar month on successive days
and shall in respect of each year avail himself of not less than 14 days out of the said calendar month.
(ii) At the end of the first year of employment the employee qualifies for proportionate leave as follows :
(a) The full annual holiday of one calendar month if his employment commenced on or after 1st January but
before 1 st April.
(b) A holiday of 21 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 1st April but before 1st July.
(c) A holiday of 15 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 1st July but before 1st October, and
(d) A holiday of 08 calendar days if his employment commenced on or after 1st October.
(iii)
AVAILMENT. –
The Availment of all  Annual leave shall be by prior authorization of the Bank upon the employee’s application,
giving sufficient notice to the Bank, so as to ensure availment at times mutually convenient.
(iv) ACCUMULATION.–
Annual leave may be accumulated by an employee at the rate of 10 days per annum exclusively for purposes referred
hereunder up to a maximum period of 90 days:
(a) For availment in full, immediately preceding retirement by mutual arrangement with the Bank.
(b) For the purpose of attending on a family member who is seriously ill.
(c) For travel abroad for which purpose one month’s prior notice shall be given.
(d) For marriage of the employee
(e) On account of the death of a family member provided that the employee has exhausted his current year’s
leave.
(f) For purpose of nursing third and fourth children beyond the Maternity Leave entitlement.
(g) Prolonged illness of the employee
(v) Any annual leave not utilized by an employee up to a maximum of 10 days per year in excess of the number of 90
days accumulated as provided herein may be encashed by the employee on request at an amount equal to one day’s
salary per each day unavailed of.
(vi) Provided that in the case of (iv)(b)to (f) the approval of such leave shall be at the discretion of the Management.
(vii) Family member for purposes of (b) and (e) above shall mean spouse, children or parents.
(b)
MEDICAL LEAVE.–
(i) ENTITLEMENT .–
An employee shall be entitled to not less than twenty four (24) days leave exclusive of weekly or other holidays in
any one year, in case of sickness on full pay, subject to the conditions in sub-clause (ii) hereof.
(ii) The Bank will be entitled to refuse to grant pay for any days of absence on grounds of sickness not supported by
a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner.
(a) Where such period of absence exceeds two consecutive days including weekly or other holidays, or
(b) Where the number of days already allowed on full pay on grounds of sickness, uncertified by a Medical
Practitioner, is in excess of twelve (12) days in any one year.
(iii) ACCUMULATION .–
An employee who takes less than his entitlement in any one year as prescribed above shall be entitled to avail himself
of the balance of his entitlement for such year in any succeeding year or years, subject to the following provisions;

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
11A
(a) In no case shall the entitlement to medical leave on full pay, by reason of such accumulation, exceed ninety
(90) days, and
(b) The accumulated medical leave may only be availed of on account of prolonged illness, hospitalization or
similar circumstances, supported by a Certificate from a Registered Medical Practitioner,
(c) Where an employee has exhausted his current year’s sick leave as a result of prolonged illness such as an
infectious disease or prolonged hospitalizations, the employer may permit him to  set off any further absence on
grounds of ill health against such accumulated sick leave up to the extent of the leave taken for such earlier
prolonged illness.
(iv) The Bank will be entitled, after inquiry and advising the employee concerned, to refuse to pay and / or take any action
as appropriate in situations where the absence on grounds of sickness not supported by a Certificate from a Registered
Medical Practitioner, occurs in the following circumstances :
(a) Where the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and / or reason for absence
of  an employee, or
(b) Where the absence of the employee on grounds of sickness immediately follows or precedes any weekly or
other holiday and the Bank has reasonable cause to suspect the bona fides of the application and/or reason for
absence of the employee.
(c) CASUAL LEAVE.– An employee shall be entitled to a maximum of seven (7) days casual leave in each year of
employment where of not more than two (2) days shall be taken at any one given time and such leave shall not
precede or follow any period of annual leave. All casual leave shall be by prior approval of the Bank, unless
the reason for such absence is justified to the satisfaction of the Bank as being in circumstances that could not
have been foreseen by such employee.
23. Suspension. –
(i) Where an employee is suspended pending a  disciplinary inquiry on investigations, he will, subject to the provisions of Sub-
clauses (ii) and (iii) below, receive half his salary from the date of suspension up to six months and full pay thereafter,
subject to the condition that the delay was not due to the employee concerned.
(ii) Where the suspension is on account of charges involving financial dishonesty such as fraud or misappropriation, the
employee will not be entitled to any salary during the period of suspension unless the inquiry is not concluded within six
months of the date of suspension in which event he will receive half his salary during his suspension beyond the said six
months period. Provided that if the delay beyond six months is due to the employee’s own conduct or due to the employee
being in custody or remand thereby making it impossible for the Bank to hold or conclude the inquiry, half such salary as
aforementioned will not be payable.
(iii) In cases not involving financial dishonesty as aforementioned, where the employer is prevented from concluding the inquiry
within six months of suspension for reasons beyond the employer’s control such as where the employee makes repeated
requests for postponements or where he is remanded or in police custody or where the matter is under investigation by the
Police, the employee will continue to receive half his salary and will not receive full pay in these circumstances.
24. Disciplinary Procedure. – Where the Bank proposes to take disciplinary action against an employee except, however, in the case
of oral warning, letters of advice, caution or warnings for minor offenses, the following procedure shall apply ;
(a) Irrespective of whether such employee has been suspended, the employee shall be furnished with a show cause letter which
shall set out the particulars of the charges against such employee and such show cause letter shall give the employee not less
than ten (10) calendar days within which to tender his explanation in writing to the charges preferred.
(b) Within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the show cause letter the employee shall tender in writing to the Bank his
explanation to the aforesaid charges provided however that if in the circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may request
the Bank for an extension of time within which to tender the written explanation and where such request is made, the Bank
shall normally grant such request for such further period of time as is considered necessary by the Bank in the circum-
stances.
(c) If where the employee tenders his explanation within the period of time allowed to the employee to show cause and the Bank
is satisfied with such explanation, the Bank shall withdraw the charge/s against the employee and if the employee is under

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
suspension, the Bank shall forthwith reinstate the employee and shall pay to such employee his salary and entitlements in
respect of the period of such suspension.
(d) Where the employee tenders his explanation within the time allowed to him to show cause and the Bank is not satisfied with
such explanation, the Bank shall, subject to sub - clause (k) (iii) hereof, hold an inquiry into the charges against such
employee.
(e) The Bank shall commence an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) hereof within 21 working days from the date of
receipt by them of the written explanation to the show cause letter unless it is not possible to do so for reasons beyond
the Bank’s control, or by reason of the employee’s own conduct or seeking, or by reason of unforeseen circumstances.
(f) The Bank will permit a member of the Branch Union of the same Grade or of a Higher Grade than the accused employee
or an office bearer of the Branch Union irrespective of grade (in which case the Bank reserves to itself the right to prevent
the person carrying on the defence for unacceptable conduct) to defend the accused employee at a domestic inquiry
provided the defending employee has not obtained a legal qualification. The defending employee will not suffer any loss
of salary for absence from work on this account. The Bank will further allow another member of the Branch Union to be
present at the inquiry as an Observer without loss of salary for absence from work. The accused employee shall submit
to the Bank in writing the name of the Defending Employee and Observer not less than 48 hours before the time appointed
for the commencement of the inquiry. The Defending Employee shall be entitled to examine the witnesses for the accused
employee and cross examine witnesses for the Bank. The inquiring Officer will be entitled to require a Defending
Employee or Observer who obstructs the inquiry to withdraw therefrom and the Defending Employee or Observer shall
forthwith comply with such requirement. The absence of a Defending Employee or Observer from the whole or any part
of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, not the proceedings thereat, nor the findings
pursuant thereto. The Observer shall not be entitled to participate in the proceedings but he may answer any question
which the inquiring Officer may ask him.
(g) The Union will be entitled to a copy of the proceedings of the inquiry conducted subject to the Observer and the accused
employee signing proceedings as a correct record. After the proceedings have been certified and a copy issued to the
accused employee for all purposes thereafter the proceedings shall be taken as a true copy of such proceedings before the
inquiring Officer.
(h) The Inquiring Officer shall maintain his impartiality and shall not attempt to act the role of the prosecution as well.
(i) Within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of the inquiry the Bank shall inform the employee, in writing, of the
findings in respect of the charges and of the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer.
(j) Where the Bank fails to inform the employee as aforesaid within the said period of thirty (30) working days except for
reasons beyond the control of the Bank or by reason of the conduct of the employee, such employee shall not be punished
thereafter in respect of such charges and no inference adverse to the employee shall be drawn in respect of such charges.
(k) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, the Bank shall not be required to hold a domestic inquiry in any of the
following circumstances :
(i) Where the employee fails to tender his written explanation before the expiry of the time allowed to show cause in
which event the Bank shall be entitled to take disciplinary action on the basis that such employee had no cause to
show.
(ii) where the employee makes a written admission of the charges against him.
(iii) where the Bank proposes to warn an employee, but without prejudice to the Union’s right to request the Employer
thereafter to hold an inquiry, in which event the fact that the inquiry did not commence within twenty one (21)
working days after receipt of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(l) The findings of a domestic inquiry and the punishment if any imposed by the Bank shall be final and binding on the Bank
and the employee and the Union, unless the employee or the Union shall within three (3) months from the date on which
the Bank had notified such employee of the findings or punishment, raises a dispute in respect of such findings and/ or
punishment.
(m) Where an employee is under suspension and the Bank makes order that -
(i) the employment of the employee shall be terminated, then the termination of such employment shall take effect as from
the date of suspension or such later date as the Bank may determine ; provided further that the Bank shall not be entitled

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
13A
to recover from the employee any payment made in respect of salary to the employee in respect of such period of
suspension, if any such payment has been made.
(ii) the employment of the employee shall not be terminated, then the employee shall be employed forthwith and shall
be paid the entirety of his salary in respect of the period of suspension without prejudice to the right of the Bank to
impose such other punishment other than termination, which may include the whole or part of the period of
suspension pending inquiry, on the basis of the findings of the inquiry.
(n) The observance by the Bank of sub-clauses (e), (i) and (j) shall not be necessary where an inquiry is not held in view of
the fact that the matter under inquiry is being referred, or has been referred, to the Police or other authorities for
investigation or inquiries or in view of the fact that criminal charges are pending against the employee.
25. Technology.–
(i)  Schedule III hereto contains matters relating to new Computer Based Banking Technology agreed upon between the
parties.
(ii) The Bank will furnish the Union on request information relating to new computer hardware to be introduced by the Bank,
i.e., published manufacturer’s specifications relating to equipment. The Bank will be under no obligation to provide
information relating to software.
(iii) The Union will be free to make representations on matters relating to the introduction of new Computer Based Banking
Technology in the Bank other than on matters covered in this Agreement and subject to sub-clause (ii) above.
(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of (iii) above, the Union will not be entitled to raise any industrial dispute on matters
relating to Computer Based Banking Technology, will not resort to any industrial action in that regard and any represen-
tations/ dispute in that connection shall not fall within the meaning of an industrial dispute under the laws of Sri Lanka.
(v) It is agreed that any matter raised by the Union relating to the adverse effects of the use of computers shall be referred to
the Monitoring Committee set up under the Collective Agreement for resolution. In the event of the Monitoring Commit-
tee not being able to satisfy the Union, such matter shall be referred to the Department of Health and Safety of the Labour
Department and the recommendation given by the Doctor-in-Charge shall be accepted by both parties and where changes
are necessary in terms of such recommendation the Monitoring Committee shall prevail on the Bank concerned to
 implement such changes.
26. Trade Union Action.–
(a)
MATTERS RELATED AND COVERED IN THE AGREEMENT :
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during
the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action
including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of
any dispute related to this Agreement.
(b)
MATTERS NOT RELATED AND NOT COVERED IN THIS AGREEMENT :
The Union and its members covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Bank that during
the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union action
including go-slow, boycott or demonstrations or picketing or any form of collective action against the Bank in respect of
any dispute that may arise on any matter not related to this Agreement until –
(i) The Branch Union of the Bank has exhausted all forms of conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the
Bank, at which stage the Branch Union shall notify the Bank in writing of its intention to refer such matter to the
Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union)
(ii) The Parent Union (the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union) has intervened in the matter and has exhausted all forms of
conciliation to resolve such dispute amicably with the Bank and/ or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon.
(iii) In the event of there being no settlement at the level of conciliation aforesaid, the Parent Union has to give notice in
writing of not less than fourteen (14) days of the fact that there has been no satisfactory settlement of the dispute and
that it wishes to resort to trade union action. Such notice shall be given to the Bank, the Employers’ Federation of
Ceylon and to the Commissioner of Labour.
3A – G16358

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
27. Union Check-off Facilities.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement and provided the Union has not less than forty
(40) per cent membership among the employees covered by this Agreement the Bank shall continue to grant check-off, provided, however,
that the Bank reserves the right to stop, suspend, or discontinue such facility in the event of the Union violating any of the provisions of this
Collective Agreement in relation to the Bank.
28. Implementation and Interpretation of this Agreement.–
(i) Where either the Union or the Bank are dissatisfied with the manner in which the Collective Agreement is being implemented
or where there is a complaint regarding the adverse effects of computer technology change such matter shall be dealt with by
a Monitoring Committee set up by the Bank consisting of two representatives from the Bank and two representatives from the
Union. The Bank or the Union may request that a matter be placed before the Monitoring Committee by communication
addressed to the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon setting out the cause of complaint.
(ii) Any dispute over the interpretation of the Agreement shall be settled by voluntary arbitration under Section 3 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1950.
29. Consequences of Termination of Agreement.–
 On the termination of this Agreement all terms, conditions, benefits, facilities
and concessions enjoyed by the Union and/ or its members shall ipso facto cease.
30. Definitions.– In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words and phrases shall have the following
meanings.
Bank Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
Employee an employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
Employer Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC.
Parent Union/Union The Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union
Branch Union The Branch Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at Commercial Bank of
Ceylon PLC.
Dispute A dispute shall have the same meaning as an Industrial Dispute in the Industrial
disputes Act and shall include any dispute arising between the Bank and the Branch
Union of the Ceylon Bank Employees’ Union at such respective Bank.
Salary Shall mean the consolidated salary as defined in Clause 5.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
 words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
15A
IN WITNESS HEREOF PARTIES HA VE SET THEIR HANDS HEREUNTO ON THIS 12TH DAY OF JANUARY 2012

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
SCHEDULE I
JUNIOR EXECUTIVE ASSISTANTS
SALARY RANGES
(a)  Pensionable Category
Rs. 32,000/- per mensem Rs. 66,000/= per mensem
(b)  Non Pensionable Category
Rs. 34,000/- per mensem Rs. 70,000/= per mensem
Annual increments in accordance with Clause 8 of the Collective Agreement.
 SCHEDULE II
1. The benefits of the Scheme will accrue to the employee but will cover those persons specified in clause 18 (iii) of the
Agreement. It shall be the duty of the employee to enroll members of his family immediately on becoming eligible to be
included in this scheme.
No reimbursements will be made in respect of members of the family who have not been enrolled.
2. Reimbursements will only be effected on hospitalization involving at least one night’s stay in a hospital. Provided however,
where the employee is aged 40 years or above expenses he/ she incurs on account of full medical checkups, without being
admitted to a hospital will be reimbused up to a maximum of Rs. 12,000/= per annum.
3. The Bank must be notified promptly, and in any event not later than on the first business day following admission to hospital .
4. The Bank will be entitled to take out Insurance Policies covering reimbursements under this scheme and the employee shall be
required to make declarations (including completion and signing of Insurance Proposal forms) and submit documentation
required by Bank/ Insurers in a proper form and timely manner to enable to the Bank to obtain reimbursement from the
Insurance Companies. The Bank will advise by internal circular issued from time to time the documentary requirements and
time limits within which documents should be submitted. Where an employee does not comply, he will not be entitled to
benefits under this scheme.
5. Employees shall uphold the principle of uberima fides when making declarations and submitting claims under this scheme and
any deviation would disqualify the employee from receiving any benefit under this scheme. In addition, the employee will be
liable to disciplinary action in accordance with provisions set out in this agreement.
6.  (a) The Bank will circulate by internal circular published from time to time a list of Hospitals/ Nursing Homes, expenses
incurred at which, will be eligible for reimbursement under the scheme. Additions and / or deletions to this list will also be
made by internal circular.
(b) If for reasons of geographical location of any employee believes he may not be in a position to use any of the Institutions
given in the list, he may apply to the Bank in writing within 30 days of publication of the list of amendments to the list
referred to in the preceding sub-paragraph, requesting special dispensation to use a named institution or Institutions and the
Bank shall  consider such applications on a case by case basis and, where deemed appropriate, will grant such special
dispensation, provided however, that the decision of the Bank on this matter shall be final and conclusive.
7. Exclusions  .–
 The scheme shall not cover benefits / expenses :
(a) Occasioned by or happening through,
(i) The participation by employee or other eligible family members in War, Invasion, Act of Foreign Enemy, Hostilities
(whether war be declared or not), Civil War, Rebellion, Revolution, Insurrection, Mutiny or Usurped Power, Military,
Popular Rising or while serving as a member of any Defence, Police, Security Force, Home Guard, etc.
(ii) Attempted suicide, Alcoholism, or any self inflicted injury/sickness.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
17A
(iii) Normal child birth or pregnancy subject to clause 13 (iv). Provided that if an employee has been employed for a
continuous period of twelve months, the Bank will pay the medical expenses incurred for any abnormality of
maternity which is in excess of what a normal child birth would have cost. The responsibility for furnishing the Bank
with the required proof of the extra cost involved, such as a letter from the Doctor/ Hospital, will be on the employee who
makes the claim.
(iv) Earthquake, Volcanic Eruption or Tidal Wave
(b) Incurred whilst travelling in an aircraft other than as a ticket holding passenger in a fully licensed standard type of civil
aircraft operated by a recognized airlines on a regular route or in a fully licensed standard type of civil aircraft having two
or more engines operated by a recognized Air Charter Company or owned by a Commercial or Industrial firm and piloted
by a Pilot holding a Commercial Pilot’s License.
(c) In respect of Eye Tests or Dental Treatment.
(d) Arising from any physical defect or infirmity which existed prior to confirmation in the Bank’s service.
8. The benefits under this scheme shall not be cumulative and the words “any one Year” in clause 13 (iii) of the Agreement shall
be deemed to be the period 1 st January to 31 st December. In the case of employees who join during the course of a year the
overall limit and event limit up to the period ending the next 31st December will be pro-rated to the number of full months of
service up to 31st December.
9. In respect of claims for hospitalization which span the end of any year, reimbursement will be made out of the entitlement of
either or both years, as applicable.
SCHEDULE III
The parties agree to the following conditions in relation to the introduction of new Computed Based Banking Technology by the
Bank covered and bound by this Agreement.
1. Wherever practical, the Bank will endeavour to ensure that jobs are designed to include a mix or  VDU/ non VDU tasks which
seek to provide variation in visual and in mental demands upon the operator.
2. The workload of operators of VDUs will be regularly reviewed by Management for the purpose of ensuring proper safety and
effectiveness of the operations.
3. The Banks agree to provide VDU operators with adequate training within the parameters of their job description to  ensure the
safety and health of employees.
4. (a) In selecting VDUs, the Bank will attempt to obtain equipment, which will ensure the following :
(i) Screens that give clear stable images.
(ii) Proper sitting of keyboards so as to ensure the reduction of stress and improved maneuverability.
(iii) Equipment which is quiet in operation so that the level of noise is kept to a reasonable limit.
(b) The Bank will undertake proper servicing and maintenance to ensure optimum functioning of the VDUs.
(c) The Bank will pay attention to the proper positioning of screens, keyboards and provide facilities for placing documents
and ancillary equipment in a manner to facilitate the work of employees.
(d) The Bank will endeavour to provide lighting facilities to minimize visual fatigue in the operation of VDUs.
(e) Employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU, will be
permitted to visit, at the cost of the Bank, an Optician selected by the Bank to have his eyesight examined prior to his
commencing employment on a VDU. In the event of an adverse report being obtained from the Optician, the employee
should inform the Bank immediately.
(f) Where an employee whose main or primary function, as decided by the Managment of the Bank, is the operation of a VDU,
and he is already using spectacles, when he is called upon to operate a VDU for the first time, he will be permitted, at the

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'25
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2012
expense of the Bank, to be examined by an Optician nominated by the Bank for the purpose of obtaining an opinion as to
whether any modification is necessary to his lenses. The cost of such examination and modification to the lenses if necessary,
will be borne by the Bank on the following basis.
(i) The cost of the examination will be met by the Bank outside the limits prescribed by the Medical Assistance Scheme
herein.
(ii) The cost of modification of the lenses will be met within the Medical Assistance Scheme, but if such cost should exceed
the limits prescribed by the scheme, the Bank will bear such additional cost as well.
5. Accepting the fact that continuous work at a terminal by a Data Entry Operator causes a certain amount of strain, the Bank is
agreeable to a reasonable pause in entering information at or about the end of each period of 2 hours so long as there is no disruption
of the smooth flow of work and so long as such pause does not exceed 10 minutes.
6. The provisions of this Agreement will apply to employees whose main or primary function, as decided by the Management of the
Bank, is operating a VDU. Provided however the Union will be entitled to make representations as to whether the main or primary
function is the operation of a VDU subject to there being no industrial dispute being raised on this issue.
7. The Bank agrees that they will not seek to retrench employees who become redundant solely and exclusively in consequence of the
introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. Instead, the Bank may avail itself of any one or more of the following
options:
(a) The aforementioned excess employees may be transferred to other sections / Departments to perform work which is within
their skill and capacity without reduction in salary and allowances which are in force at such time in relation to such
employees. This option refers to a transfer other than within the scope of employment, which the Bank would under normal
circumstances be entitled to effect.
(b) The Bank may, on a transfer within the scope of (a) above, re-train an employee if the employer considers it necessary.
(c) The Banks will be entitled to negotiate with employees who are redundant for the reasons contemplated in this Agreement,
with a view to achieving a cessation of employment on terms mutually agreed upon and this will not amount to retrenchment
within the meaning of this schedule.
8. For the purpose of this Agreement, retrenchment will mean an involuntary termination of the employees made redundant conse-
quent upon the introduction of new Computer Based Banking Technology. It will not include a situation where such redundant
employees voluntarily leave the service of the employers on terms mutually agreed upon.
08-280
ERRATA
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT CHAPTER 131
‘‘Collective Agreement No. 11 of 2011’’
 for
The Executive Grades for Sri Lanka
Insurance Corporation and insurance Employees Union and Sri lanka Freedom Employees Union published in Gazette Extraordinary of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1713/17 of 07.07.2011 should be corrected as.
‘‘Collective Agreement No. 12 of 2011’’ for the Executive grades for Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation and Insurance Employees
Union and Sri Lanka Freedom Employees Union
K. D. MANOJ PRIYANTHA,
Commissioner of Labour,
(Labour Relations)
for commissioner-General of Labour
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo -5
19th July, 2012.
08-282
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA