

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2061$21 - 2018 ud¾;= ui 06 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2018'03'06
No. 2061/21  -  TUESDAY   MARCH   06,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
CF 1/64
THE  PUBLIC  SECURITY  ORDINANCE  (Chapter 40)
REGULATIONS  made by the President under Section 5 of the Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40).
MAITHRIPALA SIRISENA,
President.
Colombo,
06th March 2018.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A - G22804 — 367 (03/2018)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
2A
Regulations
1.These regulations may be cited as the Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions and Powers)
Regulations, No.1 of 2018.
PART  I
GENERAL
2. (1) In any emergency regulation, unless any other definition is expressly provided therein or
unless it is otherwise expressly provided therein or the context otherwise requires:-
"Attorney-General" in relation to any emergency     regulation, includes the Solicitor-General,
Senior Additional Solicitor General, Additional Solicitor General, Senior Deputy Solicitor General,
and Deputy Solicitor General, Senior State Counsel, State Counsel or any Attorney-at-Law
authorized by the Attorney 
General in that behalf for the purpose of such regulation;
"competent authority" in relation to any emergency regulation means, unless otherwise provided
for in such regulation, any person appointed by name, or by office by the President to be a
competent authority for the purpose of such regulation;
"emergency regulation" means any of these regulations or any other regulation made under the
Public Security Ordinance;
"essential service" means any service which is of public utility or essential for national security or
preservation of public order or to the life of the community and includes any Department of
Government or branch thereof;
"Inspector General of Police" shall include any Senior Deputy Inspector-General and Deputy
Inspector-General of Police;
"land "includes land covered with water and parts of   houses or buildings;
"Police Officer" means a member of any Police Force established under the Police Ordinance;
"public officer" shall have the same meaning as in the Constitution;
"Sri Lanka" includes the territorial waters and territorial airspace thereof.
(2) The Interpretation Ordinance shall apply to the interpretation of an emergency regulation and
of any orders and rules made thereunder, as it applies to the interpretation of an Act or Ordinance or Law.
(3) Any reference in any document or any other written law to any emergency regulation shall,
unless the contrary intention appears, be construed as a reference to that regulation, as amended by any
subsequent regulation made under the Public Security Ordinance.
(4) Where any emergency regulation requires or enables a period to be specified in any direction
or order made under such regulation and such direction or order does not specify any such period, such
period shall be deemed to be the period during which the regulations under which such direction or order
is given or made remains in force.
Short title
Interpretation

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
3A
3.  Save as otherwise expressly provided, the powers conferred by any emergency regulation shall in
addition to, and not in derogation of any other rights or powers which by law are vested in or conferred
on the President or any other authority or person.
4.  Any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on the President by any emergency regulation
may be exercised, performed or discharged by any Minister who is authorized in that behalf by the
President.
5. (1) The President may appoint, by name or by office, any person as Competent Authority for the
purposes of any emergency regulation made or may be made generally or specially for the whole of Sri
Lanka or for any area or place specified in writing by which such person is appointed, and may be limited
to such of those purposes as may be specified in writing:Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions
of this paragraph shall be deemed to preclude the appointment of two or more persons to be competent
authorities for any of the purpose of any regulation or for any specified area or place.    (2)  Where the
holder of a designated office had been appointed to be a competent authority, then, unless express
provision is made to the contrary, the appointment shall be deemed to extend to the person for the time
being performing the duties of the office designated.
6.  Without prejudice to any special provisions contained in any emergency regulation, a notice to be
served on any person for the purpose of any emergency regulation may be served by handing over such
notice or by sending it by post addressed to that person at his last or usual place of abode or place of
business.
7.  Any power conferred by any emergency regulation to make any order or rule shall be construed as
including a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like conditions, if any, to revoke or
vary the order or rule.
8. (1) The President may by order appoint any person by name or by office to be the Commissioner-
General of Essential Services for the whole of Sri Lanka.  It shall be the duty of the Commissioner-General
of Essential Services to execute and coordinate all activities relating to the supply and maintenance of
essential services.
(2) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may appoint, by name or by office, such
Additional or Deputy Commissioners or Assistant Commissioners as may be necessary for the performance
of his duties under these regulations.
(3) The Commissioner-General of Essential Services may delegate to any Additional or Deputy
Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner appointed under paragraph (2) any power, duty or function
conferred or imposed on, or assigned to such Commissioner-General by or under these regulations.
 (4) For the purpose of the performance of duties under these regulations, the Commissioner-
General of Essential Services may exercise any power conferred on any authority or officer to whom any
power under these regulations have been delegated.
(5)  The Commissioner-General of Essential Service may give to –
(a) any authority or officer, to whom any power has been delegated under these regulations;
and
(b) any 
coordinating officer appointed under these regulations,
Emergency
powers to be in
addition to other
powers
Delegation of
powers of the
President to any
Minister
Appointment of
Competent
Authority
Service of Notice
Revocation and
variation of order
Appointment of
Commissioner
General of
Essential
Services

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
4A
such directions as may be necessary for ensuring the maintenance of essential services, and it shall be
the duty of such authority, officer or co-ordinating officer as the case may be, to comply with every such
direction.
9. (1) The President may by Order published in the Gazette, declare any service to be an
essential service, if it appears to be so necessary for the maintenance and preservation of public order
and for the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.
(2)  Any person engaged or employed in any work, in connection with a service declared to be an
essential service by the President in terms of paragraph (1), who –
(a)  fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of such
Order, to attend at his place of work or employment or such other place as may from time
to time be designated by his employer or a person acting under the authority of his
employer, or who fails or refuses without lawful excuse to work or keeps away from
work, without working during the full period or any part of the normal working  day as
is required by him in accordance with the terms and conditions of his employment in
such service; or
(b)  fails or refuses without lawful excuse after the lapse of one day from the date of such
Order to perform such work as he may be directed by his employer or a person acting
under the authority of his employer, to perform; or
(c)   being a person engaged or employed in a specified service, fails or refuses without lawful
excuse to perform such work as he may from time to time be directed by his employer  or
a person acting under the authority of his employer, to perform at such time or place or
within such periods as may be specified by such employer or such person for the
performance of such work (whether such time or place or period is within or outside
normal working hours or on holidays) he shall, notwithstanding that he has failed or
refused to so attend  or to so work in furtherance of a strike or other organized action-
(i) be deemed for all purposes to have forthwith terminated or vacated his
employment notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law or the
terms and conditions of any contract governing his employment; and
(ii) in addition, be guilty of an offence.
In this paragraph "specified service" means any essential service which is declared to be a
specified service by the President under paragraph (1) being an essential service, in which a person
employed or engaged in any work in connection with such service, may be required to work outside
normal working hours or on holidays.
(3)  Where any service is declared to be an essential service by the President, by Order
published in the Gazette –
(a)  any person who , in any manner whatsoever –
(i) impedes, obstructs, delays or restricts the carrying on of that service;
(ii) impedes, obstructs or prevents any other persons employed in, or in connection
with the carrying on of that service to refrain from attending at his place of work;
Essential
Services

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
5A
(iii) incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in, or in connection with the
carrying on of that service to refrain from attending at his place of work;
(iv) compels, incites, induces or encourages the establishment or maintenance of any other
service in lieu of, or parallel with that service, being a government department or branch
thereof;
(v) compels, incites, induces or encourages any other person employed in, or in connection
with, the carrying on that service, to surrender or depart from his employment (whether
or not such other person does so surrender or depart in consequence); or
(vi) prevents any other person from offering or accepting employment in, or in connection
with, the carrying on of that service;
(b) any person who, by any physical act or by any speech or writing incites, induces or encourages
any other person to commit an act specified in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph (whether
or not such other person commits in consequence any act so specified),commits an offence
and shall on conviction by the High Court be liable to imprisonment of either description for
a term not more than three years.
(4)   Every person who is deemed to have terminated or vacated his employment by reason of the
operation of the provisions of paragraph (2) of this regulation shall vacate any quarters provided to him,
by or on behalf of the government, within three days of such termination or vacation.  Any person who
fails to vacate such quarters within such period commits an offence under these regulations.
In this paragraph "quarters" means any building or room or other accommodation occupied or
used for the purpose of residence and includes any land or premises in which such building, room or
other accommodation is situated.
(5)   Where any person is convicted by any court of any offence under this regulation, then, in
addition to any other penalty that the court shall impose for such offence –
(a) all property movable or immovable, of that person shall, by virtue of such conviction, be
deemed to be forfeited to the Republic; and
(b) any alienation or other disposal of such property effected by such person after the date of
the coming into force of these regulations shall be deemed to have been and to be, null and
void.
(6)  Where any service is declared to be an essential  service, by the President, by Order published
in the Gazette, the services of any officer, servant, employee  or agent employed in or belonging to any
such service declared to be essential may, wherever deemed to be necessary, be requisitioned by the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Defence or any officer authorized by
him in that behalf, in consultation with the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom the
relevant subject has been assigned.
PART  III
RIGHTS  OF  ENTRY,  &  C.
10. (1) If a competent authority is of opinion that special precautions should be taken to prevent the
entry of unauthorized persons into any area, place or premises wholly or mainly  occupied or used for
the maintenance of essential services, that competent authority may by order provide that no person
Prevention of
unauthorized
entry

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
6A
shall, subject to such exemptions as may be specified in the order enter or remain upon that area or place
or those premises without the permission or such authority or person as may be specified in the order.
(2) If any person, is in any area, place or premises in contravention of an order made under this
regulation, then without prejudice to any other proceeding that may be taken against him, he may be
removed there from by any police officer or any member of Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy or the Sri
Lanka Air Force or by any other person authorized in that behalf by a competent authority.
(3)  In this regulation, "Competent Authority", in relation to any essential service, means any
person appointed by name or by office, to be a competent authority for the purpose of that service by
the President.
PART  IV
SEARCH  AND  ARREST
11.  (1)  Any police officer, or any member of the Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy or the Sri
Lanka Air Force, may search, detain for purposes of such search, or arrest without warrant, any person
who is committing or has committed  or whom he has reasonable grounds for suspecting to have been
concerned in or to have committed an offence under any of these regulations or any offence in terms of
Sections 354, 355, 356, 357, 358, 359, 360, 360A, 360B,  360C and Sections 364, 365, 365A and 365B and
Section 427 to 446 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), and may also search, seize, remove and detain an
vehicle, vessel, article, substance or thing whatsoever used in, or in connection with, the commission of
the office.
 (2)  Any person arrested by a member of the Armed Forces under paragraph (1) shall, within
twenty-four hours, be handed over to the nearest police station.
 (3)  Any person arrested by a Police officer shall be taken to the nearest police station.
 (4) Any person conducting a search under paragraph (1) of this regulation may question any
other person present in the premises, place, vehicle or vessel searches, or the person who is searched,
in regard to any matter connected with or relating to the purpose of the search.
(5) Every person who is questioned under paragraph (3) of this regulation shall furnish such
information as is within his knowledge in regard to the matter in respect of which he is questioned.
(6) The person residing in or in charge of any premises, place, vehicle or vessel which is to be
searched under this regulation, shall, on demand of the person conducting the search allow him free
ingress thereto and afford all reasonable facilities for a search therein.
(7) A person conducting a search under this regulation may, in order to effect an entrance into the
premises, place, vehicle or vessel to be searched, open or break open any outer or inner door or window.
(8)  Whenever it is necessary to cause a female to be searched, the search shall be made by
another female.
(9) It shall be the duty of the arresting officer causing the arrest of any person within twenty four
hours of the arrest to report the arrest made under paragraph  (1), where the arresting officer is a police
officer, to the officer in charge  of a police station in the area in which the arrest was made and where the
arresting  officer is a member of the armed forces, to the Commanding Officer of the area within which
the arrest is made.
Search and
arrest for
offences

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
7A
(10) Where any property is seized or detained under the provisions of this regulation a person
effecting the seizure or detention shall issue a receipt in respect of such property to the person from
whose custody such property was seized or detained.
(11)  The President may, from time to time by order, prohibit the holding of public processions or
public meetings, as may be specified in that order in any area in Sri Lanka for such period and, subject
to such exemptions as may be specified in that order.
(12) The Inspector General of Police may, in respect of any area in Sri Lanka, by order direct that,
subject to such exemptions as may be specified in such order that, no person in that area shall between
such hours or during such period as may be specified in the order, be on any public road, railway, park,
recreation ground or any other public place, except under the authority of a written permit granted by
officer-in-charge of a police station.
PART  V
OFFENCES  AND  PENALTIES
12. (1) Any person who –
 (a) does, any act which causes the destruction of, or damage to property, whether movable
or immovable, or any such change in any such property, as would destroy or diminish
its value or utility ; or
(b) causes or attempts to cause death or injury to any person; or
(c ) commits criminal intimidation or assault on any other person; or
(d) commits any offence under sections 345, 354, 355, 356, 357, 358, 359, 360, 360A, 360B,
360C, 364, 365 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19); or
(e) commits theft, extortion or robbery of any property; or
(f) commits any offence under any of the sections 427 to 446 of the Penal Code (Chapter
19) or illegally removes, or attempts to remove, any goods or articles from any such
premises; or
(g) commits any offence under any of the sections 427  to 446 of the Penal Code (Chapter
19) or illegally removes, or attempts to remove, any goods or articles from any such
premises,
shall be guilty of an offence and, notwithstanding anything in the Penal Code (Chapter 19) or in these
regulations shall, on conviction thereof before the High Court, be liable to suffer life imprisonment or a
term of imprisonment of either description twenty years.
(2) Section 96 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) which relates to the right of private defence of
property and prescribes the circumstances in which death or other harm can be caused to a wrongdoer
in the exercise of such right shall have effect as though there were added at the end of that section the
following:-
"Fifthly-any offence under regulation 10 of the Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions
and Powers) Regulations.".
Offences

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
8A
(3) (a) An indictment in respect of any offence under this emergency regulations may be
forwarded by the Attorney – General, if he is satisfied that the offence was committed in furtherance of
or in connection with or in the course of a civil disturbance or racially motivated riots prevailing at or
about the time of the commission of the offence:
Provided that,  having regard to the circumstances relating to the commission of any offence,
the Attorney-General may authorize the Inspector General of Police to institute proceedings in respect
of such cases or such category of cases as he may specify in the Magistrate’s Courts and thereupon
such proceedings may be instituted with the written authority of the Inspector –General of Police, and
the provisions of Chapter XVII of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, relating  to the trial
in respect of such offences, shall mutatis mutandis, apply.
(b)  Where the proceedings are instituted in a Magistrate’s Court, the offence shall be punishable
with the punishment provided for in those regulations.
13. No person shall –
(a) endeavour to cause disaffection among persons who are –
(i) public officers; or
(ii) engaged in the service of the Republic; or
(iii) engaged in the performance of essential services;   or
(b) endeavour to induce any person referred to in paragraph (a) to do or omit to do anything in
breach of his duty as a public officer or as a person as aforesaid would constitute such a
contravention.
14.  No person shall affix in any place visible to the public, distribute among the public any posters,
hand bills or leaflets, the contents of which are prejudicial to public security, public order or the
maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community.
15.  No person shall, by word of mouth or by any other means whatsoever including through digital and
or social media communicate or spread any rumour or false statement or any information or image or
message which is likely to cause public alarm or public disorder, racial violence or incite the committing
of any offence.
16.   Any person who –
(a)  in answer to any request made in pursuance of any emergency regulation or any order made
under any such regulation makes any statement or furnishes any information which he knows or
has reasonable cause to believe to be false in a material particular; or
(b)  makes such a statement as aforesaid in any account, declaration, estimate, return or other
document which he is required by any emergency regulation or by order under any emergency
regulation to make,commits an offence.
17. (1) Any person arrested in terms of these regulations may be detained for the purpose of
investigations in terms of an order issued by a Deputy Inspector General of Police.  Such person shall
be detained in accordance with the conditions stipulated in such order for a period not exceeding
fourteen days.
Prevention of
disaffection
Distribution of
leaflets & c.
Communicating
or spreading or
rumors or false
statements
False statements
Detention for the
purpose of
investigation

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
9A
(2) Any person arrested in terms of the preceding regulations shall soon as possible be brought to
a Police Station and detained therein for a period not exceeding twenty four hours and be produced
before a Magistrate, unless, an order for his detention has been made by a Deputy Inspector General in
terms of those regulations.
18. (1) No person shall, attend at or near a house or place where any other person resides or works
or carries on business or happens to be in, such manner as to be calculated to intimidate any person in
that house or place or to obstruct the approach thereto or egress there form, or to lead to a breach of the
peace.
(2)  In this regulation, the expression "intimidate" means to cause in the mind of a person a
reasonable apprehension of injury to him or to any member of his family or to any of his dependents or
of violence or damage to any person or property and the expression "injury" includes injury to a person
in respect of his business, occupation, employment or other source of income, and includes any actionable
wrong.
19.  No person shall resist or obstruct any other person in the exercise or discharge of any power
of duty conferred or imposed on that other person by or under any emergency regulation.
20.   No person shall without lawful authority cause any obstruction or damage to any public road,
bridge or culvert, or to any railway, of any public road, transport vehicle.
21. Any person who –
(a) attempts to commit or does any act preparatory to the commission of; or
(b) aids or abets another person to commit; or
(c) conspires with another person, in the commission of,
an offence under any emergency regulation shall himself be guilty of that offence and shall accordingly
be tried in like manner and be punished with the same punishment as is prescribed for such offence
under the emergency regulation.
22.  No person knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that any other person is guilty of an
offence under any emergency regulation shall give that other person any assistance with intent thereby
to prevent, hinder or interfere with the apprehension, trial or punishment of that person for the said
offence.
23.  Where an offence under any emergency regulation is committed by a  body of person, then –
(a) if that body is a body corporate, every director of that body corporate; and
(b) if that body is a firm, every partner of that firm,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent that commission of the offence.
Prevention of
intimidation
Resistance to or
obstruction of
persons in
authority
obstruction or
damage to roads,
railways & c.
Obstruction or
damage to roads,
railways & c.
Attempt to
commit offences
Assisting an
offence
Offences by
bodies of persons

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
10A
24.  (1)  If any person contravenes or fails to comply with any emergency regulation, or any
order or rule made under any such regulation or any direction given or requirement  imposed under any
such regulations, he shall commits an offence, and subject to any special provisions contained in such
regulation, shall on conviction after trial by High Court without a jury or by a Magistrate, be liable to
rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than three months and not exceeding five years and to a fine
of not less than five hundred rupees and not exceeding five thousand rupees.
(2)  Where no punishment is prescribed in any emergency regulation for an offence under that
regulation a person who commits an offence shall, on conviction after trial without a jury by the High
Court or by a Magistrate, be liable to a term of imprisonment not exceeding seven years.
(3)    Sections 303 and 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not apply to
any person convicted of an offence under any emergency regulation.
PART  VI
INVESTIGATION,  TRIAL  &  C.
25. (1) Whoever becomes aware of an intention of an attempt or a preparation to commit, or the
Commission of an offence under any emergency regulation shall forthwith give information thereof to
the nearest Grama Niladhari or to the Officer-in-charge of the nearest police station.
(2)  Any person who willfully fails to give the information referred to in paragraph (1) commits an
offence.
(3)  Any Public Servant or Grama Niladhari who receives any information relating to an offence
under an emergency regulation shall forthwith transmit such information to the officer in charge of the
nearest police station.
26.  Any police officer investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation may –
(a) orally examine any person suspected to be acquainted with the facts and the circumstances of
the offence and may reduce into writing any statement so made:
Provided that such statement shall, after it is reduced into writing be signed by both the
person making the same as well as the police officer recording the same:
Provided further that if any person refused to sign the statement after it is reduced into
writing, such refusal shall be recorded by the police officer;
(b) obtain specimen handwriting, photographs, fingerprints and other identifying features of such
person;
(c) search such person or enter and search the dwelling house or the place of work of such person;
(d) enter and search any place, building, vehicle or vessel concerned in or connected with or
suspected to be concerned in or connected with, any such offence; and
(e) inspects and takes possession of any movable property whatsoever including any telegraph
message, postal document or other book or document in any bank:
 Provided, however, that before any book or document is sought to be obtained from any bank, or
post office, the manager or officer-in-charge of such bank or post office, as the case may be, shall be
furnished with prior written information by a Police Officer not below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent that such book or document is required for the purpose of such investigation.
Penalties
Duty to disclose
information
Power of Police
officers to
investigate

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
11A
27.  Any book, document or paper found in the possession, custody or control of a person suspected
to be concerned in any offence under any emergency regulation shall be relevant in any proceedings
against such person in respect of such offence and the contents of such book, document or paper shall
be admissible in evidence, against such person without proof thereof.
28. (1) A police officer or a person duly authorized under the emergency regulations investigating
into an offence under any emergency regulation shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law, have –
(a) the right to question any person, including person detained or held in custody under any
emergency regulation and to take such person from place to place for the purpose of such
investigation during the period of such questioning; and
(b) the right to take charge from any person so questioned any article or other thing including a
document necessary for the purpose of such investigation.
(2)  It shall be the duty of every person to give all assistance to a Police Officer or other person
duly authorized, investigating into an offence under any emergency regulation, and every person
questioned under subparagraph (i) of paragraph (1) of this regulation shall-truthfully answer all questions
put to him and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law shall disclose all information
including the contents of any document, touching the subject matter of the investigation, irrespective
of the capacity in which such person has received such information or knowledge of the contents of
such document.
(3)  It shall be the duty of every person questioned under paragraph (1) of this regulation to
deliver to the police officer or a person duly authorized, investigating into a offence under any emergency
regulation any article or other thing including a document in the custody or possession of such person
when directed so to do by such police officer or person duly authorized.
(4)  A contravention of any of the provisions of this regulation or the breach of any duty imposed
thereunder shall be an offence under these emergency regulations.
29.  During the period that any person is held in detention or custody, a police officer investigating
into an offence under any emergency regulation shall have a right of access during reasonable hours to
any such person for the purpose of such investigation.
30.  The powers of a police officer under any emergency regulation shall be in addition to, and not in
derogation of, his powers under any other written law.
31.  The proceedings in any court in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by a
person under any emergency regulation shall be taken up before any other business of the court.
32.  (1) Save as otherwise herein provided and notwithstanding any other written law the proceedings
in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by a person under any emergency regulation
may be taken before the appropriate court in Sri Lanka having jurisdiction over the place where that
person is in for the time being.
(2) The Attorney-General may decide in which court –
Documents of
suspected
persons in
possession
The right to
make inquiries
and the duty to
give assistance
Right of access to
police officer
Powers of police
officer to be in
addition to other
powers
Priority for
Court
proceedings
Inquiries and
trials

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
12A
(a) offences alleged to have been committed by persons under the emergency regulations; or
(b) offences alleged to have been committed by persons under any other written law where the acts
or commissions constituting such offences were consequent on, or arose out of, or were done
or omitted to be done in, whether directly or indirectly, the exercise or performance, or the
supposed exercise or performance, of any power or duty under such regulations,
shall be inquired into or tried.  Such court shall be a court, which would have had jurisdiction to inquire
into or try such offences.  If such offences had been committed within the local limits of the jurisdiction
of such court.
 (3)  Where at least one of the charge is for an offence referred to in subparagraph (b) of paragraph
(2) the Attorney-General may, notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law, forward an
indictment directly to the High Court and the accused shall be tried upon the indictment so preferred
without a jury.
(4)   Where the Attorney-General decides, under paragraph (2) of this regulation the court by
which any offence shall be inquired into or tried, he shall be his fiat in writing designate such court as
the court by which such offence shall be inquired into or tried and accordingly such inquiry or trial shall
be held by such court on the authority of such fiat, which shall be filed of record with the proceedings
of such inquiry or trial.
(5)  A decision of the Attorney-General under paragraph (2) of this regulation may be made
applicable to –
(a) all offences alleged to have been committed by persons under the emergency regulations
throughout Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or
(b) all such offences alleged to have been so committed by persons of any particular class or
description in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or
(c) all such offences of any particular class or description alleged to have been so committed by
persons throughout Sri Lanka or in any particular area in      Sri Lanka; or
(d) all such offences of any particular class or description alleged to have been committed by
person of any particular class or description, or any particular person, throughout Sri Lanka or
in any particular area in Sri Lanka; or
(e) any particular offence alleged to have been committed by any particular person throughout
Sri Lanka or in any particular area in Sri Lanka
 (6)  During the continuance in force of this regulation, section 47 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of
1978, which empowers the Attorney-General to transfer and inquire into (or trial of) any criminal offence
from any court or place to any other court or place or shall have effect as if subsection (2) of that section
were not in force.
33. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3) of regulation 16 no prosecution shall be instituted in
the Magistrate’s Court –
(a)  for an offence against any emergency regulation ; or
(b)  for an offence against any other written law where the act or omission constituting such
offence was consequent on, or arose out of, or was done or committed to be done in, whether
Sanction of the
Attorney-General

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
13A
directly or indirectly, the exercise or performance, of any power or duty under such regulation
except by or with the written sanction of the Attorney-General.
 (2)  The President may by order declare that the provisions of paragraph (1) of this regulation shall
not apply in respect of any offence against any such emergency regulation as may be specified in the
order and accordingly, so long as such order remains in force, that paragraph shall not apply to any such
offence.
34. (1) Notwithstanding any emergency regulation or other written law the trial, including a trial at
bar, for any offence under the emergency regulations, may be held upon indictment by the Attorney-
General and thereupon the person charged shall be tried without a preliminary inquiry before the High
Court at bar, as the case may be, without a jury;
Provided that where the Attorney-General being of opinion that evidence recorded at a preliminary
inquiry will be necessary for preparing an indictment, may direct the holding of a preliminary inquiry.
The provisions of Chapter XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall mutatis
mutandis, apply to such preliminary inquiry.
(2)  No person suspected or accused of having committed an offence in terms of those regulations
be admitted to bail except under exceptional circumstances.
(3)  A trial before the High Court under these regulations, including a High Court at Bar, shall be
held as speedily as possible and in the manner provided under any other written law for other trials
before the High Courts, or the High Court at Bar, as the case may be, without a jury.
35.  The provisions of Chapter XI of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not
apply to any investigations conducted under any emergency regulation.
PART VII
MISCELLANEOUS
36.  (1)  During the continuance in force of this regulation any police officer of a rank not below
that of a Sergeant, any member of the Sri Lanka Army of a rank not below that of a Corporal, any member
of the Sri Lanka Navy of a rank not below that of a Leading Seaman, or any member of the Sri Lanka Air
Force of a rank not below that a Corporal, may order any person or persons in or about any public road,
railway, public park, public recreation ground or other public ground, seashore, or in or about, or in the
vicinity of, the premises of any public building or Government Department, to remove himself or
themselves from that place and it shall be the duty of such person, or each such person, as the case may
be, to comply with such order.
(2)  If, upon the issue of an order under subparagraph (b) of paragraph (1) of this regulation by any
officer empowered to issue such order, any person does not comply with the order or conducts himself
in such a manner as to show a determination not to comply with the order such officer with such
assistance as may be necessary, may proceed to give effect to such order by force including armed
forces and may cause such person to be removed or arrested and confined.
(3)  During the continuance in force of this regulation, section 306(1), (2) and (4) of the Code of
Criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not apply to or in relation to any person who is charged
with, or is convicted of, any offence under any emergency regulation.
Trials before
High Court
Provisions of
Chapter XI of the
Code of Criminal
Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979
not to apply
Miscellaneous
powers

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
14A
37.  (1)  Notwithstanding anything in any other law to the contrary, a person taken into custody
and detained under any emergency regulation may, during the period of such custody and detention, be
questioned by any Police officer, or any other officer authorized by the Commissioner of the Army,
Commander of the Navy or Commander of the Air Force and it shall be the duty of the person so
questioned to answer the question addressed to him.
(2)  For the purpose of questioning any person taken into custody and detained under paragraph
(1) or for any other purpose connected with such questioning, any officer referred to in paragraph (1) of
this regulation may remove such person from any place of detention or custody and keep him in the
temporary custody of such officer for a period not exceeding seven days at a time.
38.  (1)  Without prejudices to any special provisions contained in these regulations, any
person shall, on being specified so to do by or on behalf of a competent authority, furnish or produce to
such authority or person as may be so specified, being information or an article which the authority or
person making the request is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient to obtain or examine in the
interests of the national security or the maintenance of public order, or for the purposes of any emergency
regulation and if any person fails to furnish or produce any information or article in his possession in
pursuance a request duly made to him under this regulation, commits an offence.
(2)  In this regulation, "article" includes any book, account or document.
39.  A member of the Sri Lanka Army, the Sri Lanka Navy, or the Sri Lanka Air Force shall, when he is
driving any motor vehicle when authorized so to do by the Competent Authority, for the purpose of the
preservation of public order, by exempt for such of provisions of the Motor Traffic Act and the regulations
made thereunder as are specified in Schedule A to the Motor Traffic (Exemption of Her Majesty’s
Forces) Regulations, 1955, published in Gazette No. 10, 815 of 08
th July, 1955.
40.  (1)  The President may, by order, appoint any person, by name or by office, to be the
Co-ordinating Officer for any area in Sri Lanka specified in the order.
 (2)  Where a Co-ordinating Officer is appointed by the President by order for any area in Sri
Lanka, such officer shall exercise, perform or discharge in that area all the powers, duties or functions
conferred or imposed on a Government Agent under any written law or otherwise, and for that purpose
every reference shall in its application in the case of that area, be constructed as a reference to such Co-
ordinating Officer.
(3)  President may, by order, appoint any person, by name or by officer, to be a Co-ordinator-in-
Chief to exercise supervision over co-ordinating Officers appointed under paragraph (1) for any such
areas as are specified in the order.
(4)  The President may appoint, by name or by office, such Deputy Co-ordinators-in-Chief, as may
be necessary to assist the Co-ordinator-in-Chief for the performance of his duties under these regulations.
(5)  The Co-ordinator-in-Chief may delegate to any Deputy appointed under paragraph (4) any
power, duty or function, conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such Co-ordinator-in-Chief or under
these regulations.
(6)  Any Co-ordinator-in-Chief appointed under paragraph (3), or any Deputy Co-ordinator-in-
Chief appointed under paragraph (4) and to where any power, duty or function of a Co-ordinator-in-
Chief has been delegated under paragraph (5), may –
Duty to answer
questions.
Power to obtain
information or
examine articles.
Exemption of
members of the
armed forces
from certain
provisions of the
Motor Traffic Act.
The powers,
duties and
functions of a
government
Agent, may be to
a Government
Agent in such
written Law
exercised or
performed by a
Co-or.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.03.2018
15A
(a) exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on
any Co-ordinating Officer by this regulation and over whom he exercises supervision;
and
(b) give special or general directions to any Co-ordinating Officer over whom he exercises
supervision, as to the exercise, performance or discharge by such Co-ordinating Officer,
of any power, duty or function conferred or imposed in such Co-ordinating Officer by
this regulation.
41.  It shall be the duty of all Public Servants, Police Officers, Members of the Armed Forces and
employees of statutory boards and authorities to take steps in good faith to enforce the provisions of
these regulations in good faith, impartially and comprehensively and prevent a violation of any of the
regulations contained herein to the best of their ability.
Duty of Public
Servants & etc.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.