

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
707
wxl 1"769 - 2012 cQ,s 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'07'27
No. 1,769  – FRIDAY , JULY 27, 2012
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... ––
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 708
By-Laws ... 709
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
707
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th August, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd
August, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
N.B.— Parts I(III) and  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,768 of 20.07.2012 were not published.
The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in July–September, 2008 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
708
HAKMANA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Accepting Sub Statutes
AS per the powers vested in this Pradeshiya Sabhas by Sections
Nos. 122 and 126 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and as
per Section 2(3) of Local Government (related procedures) Act,
No. 12 of 1989 prepared by Hon. Minister of Local Government
under Section 02 (Sub Statute) of Local Government Act, No. 06 of
1952, published in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 520/07 dated
23.08.1988 and accepted by Southern Provincial Council by the
notice published in the Gazette No. 1,162 dated 08.12.2000.
It is hereby notified that at the meeting held on 27.03.2012
under decision No. 12-1 it was proposed by Hon. Chairman C. P .
H. Halpage to accept businesses mentioned in the following schedule
of Sub-statute Schedule and to take effect from the date of publishing
in the Gazette and it was seconded by Hon. Deputy Chairman
W. S. P. K. Amarasekara.
C. G. H. H
ALPAGE,
Chairman,
Hakmana Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of Hakmana Pradeshiya Sabha,
09th April, 2012.
01. Maintenance of a metal quarry or matle crusher operated by
machines.
02. Maintenance of a place of crushing and selling metal.
03. Maintenance of a rice mill.
04. Maintenance of a place of storing and selling petrol, diesel or
kerosene oil.
05. Maintenance of a blacksmith's workshop.
06. Maintenance of a coconut oil mill/place of storing coconut
oil.
07. Maintenance of a press (digital).
08. Maintenance of a press operated by hand machines.
Local Government Notifications
09. Maintenance of a place of storing timber.
10. Maintenance of a motor vehicle garage.
11. Maintenance of a motor vehicle service center.
12. Maintenance of a service center of motor cycle and three
wheelers.
13. Maintenance of a storing and selling LP gas.
14. Maintenance of a place of storing and selling agro chemicals
and fertilizer.
15. Maintenance of a place of gem mining or mining.
16. Maintenance of a lathe machine.
17. Maintenance of a welding workshop.
18. Maintenance of a welding workshop operated by gas.
19. Maintenance of a place of grinding, packing or selling spices
operated by machines.
20. Maintenance of a carpenter workshop operated by machines.
21. Maintenance of a carpenter workshop.
22. Maintenance of a place of producing, processing and selling
copra.
23. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing boxes of matches.
24. Maintenance of a place of cutting and selling glasses.
25. Maintenance of a place of storing and selling piants, varnish,
distemper.
26. Maintenance of a place of storing and selling asbestos sheet.
27. Maintenance of a place of weaving cloths by machines.
28. Maintenance of a place of storing tea powder at whole sale
level for selling.
29. Maintenance of a place of collecting rubber latex or fumigating
room.
30. Maintenance of a place of raring animals.
31. Maintenance of a place of raring chicks.
32. Maintenance of a place of storing perishable food item for
whole sale.
33. Maintenance of a place of manufacturing furniture.
34. Maintenance of a place of vulcanizing tyre and tubes.
35. Maintenance of a place of producing cool drinks.
36. Maintenance of a place of producing ice cream or packets of
drinks.
07-757
URBAN  COUNCIL  – KEGALLE
Act, No. 17 of 1975 for issue of license for a Social Club
IT is hereby informed that I have received an application to conduct a Social Club at the premises and the person mentioned below in the
Sub-schedule for the year 2013, under Section 06 of the Act, No. 17 of 1975.
It is further informed that if any objections to issue a license to conduct such a Social Club at the said premises proposed, such
objections by the neighbours or who lives near should be sent to me in writing with duplicate within a period of four (04) week s time of
the publication of this gazette notification.
G . K. SAMARASINGHE,
Chairman,
Urban Council, Kegalle.
Urban Council Office, Kegalle,
09th July, 2012.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
709
SUB SCHEDULE
Name of the Applicant Social Club President/ Name of the Club Place/Authority of the new activities of
and Address Secretary the Social Club
Vidana Henayalage Cyril, President Blue Light Traders and No. 152, Kalugalla Mawatha, Kegalle
No. 167/28, Olagama, Restaurant
Kegalle.
07-758
By-laws
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower, Law and Order,
Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment of the Eastern
Province do hereby grant approval to the By-law on Solid Waste
Management of the Thirukkovil Pradeshiya Sabha under and by
virtue of power vested in me under Section 123(1) and (2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with the Provincial
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and order
publish effective from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee.
On this 25th day of June Two Thousand and Twelve.
Thirukkovil  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control
of segregation, storage, collection, transfer, transportation,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Thirukkovil Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under resolution
No. 06/07 resolved at the meeting of the Thirukkovil Pradeshiya
Sabha held on 28th December, 2011 in terms of Section 122 and
126(ix) item (b) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read
with Section 2(1) of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)
Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transfer, transportation, processing, treatment and disposal
of "solid waste" generated in public places, private premises,
on streets, thoroughfares within Thirukkovil Pradeshiya
Sabha limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of
waste and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for
collection, transport and remove the waste within the
premises or cause to do so in accordance with the provision
of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid
waste generated within his premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other
method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall
be in accordance to the standard and specification
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
and maintain them in good condition and not put for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
710
by prolonged exposure to misture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to
owners or occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and19 shall pay their Service
Searches as described under Schedule hereof as follows :
(a) On or before 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly,
(b) On or before 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-laws No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-laws No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises :
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in items ( a) and (b) of Sub-section

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
711
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in item ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices :
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d
) in Sub-section (i) of this By-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office.
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129).
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels :
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
712
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires,
"Hotel" means a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores :
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Vegetable and fruit store" means an place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg stalls :
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in item (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) T
ypes of waste specified in items ( a) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not so handed over, together
with type of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law, shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Fish or egg stall" means a place where such items are
sotred for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking :
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this By-law and require the licensed pavement hawker
to pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya
Sabha taking the days of business and the volume of
waste to be generated.
(iii) At the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
713
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this By-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Pavement Hawker" means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item (d) of Sub-section (i) this By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection License issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Factory" has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
"Every person engaged in an act of excavation,
construction or demolition" includes any person engaged
for such service by an Employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applicant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
714
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in items (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially
made for that purpose, and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to the Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector.
In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires –
“Hospital” means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
medical centre, medical laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
“Hazardous healthcare waste” means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughterhouses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this
By-law shall specify the slaughter house permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a license has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual wastes.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of Sub-section (iii) of this by-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items ( a), ( b) and ( c) of
Sub-section (iii) of this by-law, may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed
over, shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha
Collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Slaughterhouse" means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272) ;
"Meat stall" means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social. cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special, arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
715
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this by-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha Waste
Collector subject to a service charge as determined by
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area ;
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places ;
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events ;
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents ;
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the preceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha. It may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places, and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha Waste
Collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
716
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this by-law, as approved by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste created as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits,
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit,
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this by-law in event of non-compliance of the
provision of Sub-section (i) of this by-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these by-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
717
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
cntravenes or violates any provisions provided under
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by microorganisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neigther re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on
or in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or
plants. Removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” waste which is not regulated hazardous
waste, which has physical or chemical characteristics
or both, that are different from municipal, demolition,
construction and wood wastes and which potentially
requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Thirukkovil Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
718
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special Waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
trnasferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges :
Classification of owner of occupier Category of owner or
under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Description of Service Category of owner Category of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
Charge or occupier under or occupier under occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-law 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *–
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *–
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *–
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
*– Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on average basistaking the volume of waste disposed of .

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
719
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and planning, Local Government,
Rehabilitation, Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower,
Law and Order, Regional Administration, Tourism and
Environment of the Eastern Province do hereby grant approval
to the By-law on Solid Waste Management of the Sammanthurai
Pradeshiya Sabha under and by virtue of power vested in me
under Section 123(1) and (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.
15 of 1987 read with the Provincial Councils (Consequential
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and order publish effective
from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee.
On this 25th day of June 2012.
Sammanthurai  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and
control of segregation, storage, collection, transfer,
transportation, processing, treatment and disposal of "solid
waste" generated in public places, private premises, at streets,
thoroughfares within Sammanthurai Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under
resolution No. 01 resolved at the 07th meeting of the
Sammanthurai Pradeshiya Sabha held on 24th October, 2011
in terms of Section 122 and 126(ix) item (b) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with Section 2(1) of Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection, transfer,
transportation, processing, treatment and disposal of "solid
waste" generated in public places, private premises, on streets,
thoroughfares within Sammanthurai Pradeshiya Sabha limits and
all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of waste and
in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area of
the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for collection,
transport and remove the waste within the premises or cause to
do so in accordance with the provision of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid waste
generated within his premises daily or in lesser intervals if
required, by sweeping or using any other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the preceding
sub-section of this By-law in accordance with the provisions
of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner or
occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for collection
under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall be in accordance
to the standard and specification approved by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time and maintain them in good condition
and not put for collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken
or softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any
other reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to owners or
occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost in part or in
full according to a decision made by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected in
the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in accordance
with the collection system and the time Schedule, operated
in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as determined and publicly notified
from time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose of
waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to health of
occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the sanitary conditions
in that area.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of
these By-laws ;
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who
have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted
families by the Divisional Secretary of the
division and assisted by the Government under
the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/1
––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
720
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and19 shall pay their Service
Searches as described under Schedule hereof as follows :
(a) On or before 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly,
(b) On or before 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-laws No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-laws No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shal be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his cntrol to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or diposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in terms ( a) and (b) of Sub-section
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in term (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in item ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :
(a
) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
721
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to reqquire
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in terms ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with ttypes of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this by-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) in Sub-section (i) of this by-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this by-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office.
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129).
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this by-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires,

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
722
"Hotel" means a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this by-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals - other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this by-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Vegetable and fruit store" means an place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg stalls
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in item (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this by-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not so handed over, together
with type of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (i) of this by-law, shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this by-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Fish or egg stall" means a place where such items are
sotred for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this by-law and require the licensed pavement hawker to
pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya Sabha
taking the days of business and the volume of waste to
be generated.
(iii) At the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this by-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
723
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Pavement Hawker" means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item (d) of Sub-section (i) this By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection License issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Factory" has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
"Every person engaged in an act of excavation,
construction or demolition" includes any person engaged
for such service by an Employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, waster,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applciant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as following :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(
c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be depsited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in items (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
724
made for that purpose and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (i) shall be haned over to an authorized collector
or to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
In this By-law, unless the context othewise requires ;
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
modical centre, medcial laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
"Hazardous healthcare waste" means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughterhouses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-
law shall specify the slaughterhouse permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a license has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of sub-section (iii) of this By-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (iii) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Slaughterhouse" means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272).
"Meat stall" means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social. cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
725
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the proceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha. it may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
726
(q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this By-laws, as approved by the
Pradeshiy Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a santiary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste ereated as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit.
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this By-law in event of non-compliance of the
provisions of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness in the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
contravenes or violates any provisions provided under
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
727
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by microorganisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neigther re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on
or in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or
plants. Removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” waste which is not regulated hazardous
waste, which has physical or chemical characteristics
or both, that are different from municipal, demolition,
construction and wood wastes and which potentially
requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Sammanthurai Pradeshiya
Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the Authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
728
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special Waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
trnasferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges :
Classification of owner or occupier Category of owner or
under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Description of Service Category of owner Category of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
Charge or occupier under or occupier under or occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-law 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *–
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *–
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *–
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
*– Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on average basis taking the volume of waste disposed o f.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these By-laws ;
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted families by the Divisional
Secretary of the division and assisted by the Government under the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/2

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
729
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower, Law and Order,
Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment of the Eastern
Province do hereby grant approval to the By-law on Solid Waste
Management of the Addalaichenai Pradeshiya Sabha under and by
virtue of power vested in me under Section 123(1) and (2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with the Provincial
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and order
publish effective from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee.
On this 25th day of June Two Thousand and Twelve.
Addalaichenai  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control
of segregation, storage, collection, transfer, transportation,
processing, treatment and disposal of “solid waste” generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Addalaichenai Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under resolution
No. 73 resolved at the meeting of the Addalaichenai Pradeshiya
Sabha held on 24th November, 2011 in terms of Section 122 and
126(ix) item (b) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read
with Section 2(1) of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)
Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transfer, transportation, processing, treatment and disposal
of “solid waste” generated in public places, private premises,
on streets, thoroughfares within Addalaichenai Pradeshiya
Sabha limits and all other incidental activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of
waste and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for
collection, transport and remove the waste within the
premises or cause to do so in accordance with the provision
of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid
waste generated within his premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other
method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall
be in accordance to the standard and specification
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
and maintain them in good condition and not put for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened
by prolonged exposure to misture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to
owners or occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and19 shall pay their Service
Searches as described under Schedule hereof as follows :
(a) On or before 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly,
(b) On or before 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
730
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-laws No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-laws No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his cntrol to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or disposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises :
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in terms ( a) and (b) of Sub-section
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in item ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(
c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to reqquire
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
731
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices :
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) in Sub-section (i) of this By-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
“Occupier” means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office.
“Office” has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129).
“Shop” means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels :
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c
) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires,
“Hotel” means a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim’s rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
732
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores :
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable wastes ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Vegetable and fruit store" means an place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg Stalls :
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in item (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not so handed over, together
with type of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law, shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Fish or egg stall" means a place where such items are
sotred for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking :
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this By-law and require the licensed pavement hawker
to pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya
Sabha taking the days of business and the volume of
waste to be generated.
(iii) At the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this By-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
733
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Pavement Hawker" means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item (d) of Sub-section (i) this By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection License issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Factory" has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
"Every person engaged in an Act of excavation,
construction or demolition" includes any person engaged
for such service by an Employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applicant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as following :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a
), (b) and (c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in items (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially
made for that purpose and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
734
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized collector
or to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires ;
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
modical centre, medical laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
"Hazardous healthcare waste" means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughterhouses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-
law shall specify the slaughterhouse permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a license has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of sub-section (iii) of this By-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (iii) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Slaughterhouse" means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272).
"Meat stall" means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social, cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c
) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
735
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the proceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha. it may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
736
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this By-laws, as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste created as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit.
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this By-law in event of non-compliance of the
provisions of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
contravenes or violates any provisions provided under

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
737
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by microorganisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neither re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on or
in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or
plants. Removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” waste which is not regulated hazardous
waste, which has physical or chemical characteristics
or both, that are different from municipal, demolition,
construction and wood wastes and which potentially
requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Addalaichenai Pradeshiya
Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
738
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special Waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
trnasferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any step or process to reduce the
potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges
Classification of owner of occupier Category of owner or
under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Description of Service Category of owner Categor of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
Charge or occupier under occupier under occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-law 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
* Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on averagebasis taking the volume of waste disposed of.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these By-laws –
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted families by the Divisional
Secretary of the division and assisted by the Government under the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/3

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
739
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower, Law and Order,
Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment of the Eastern
Province do hereby grant approval to the By-law on Solid Waste
Management of the Karaitivu Pradeshiya Sabha under and by virtue
of power vested in me under Section 123(1) and (2) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and order pubilsh
effective from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee.
On this 25th day of June 2012.
Karaitvu  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control
of segregation, storage, collection, transfer, transportation,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Karaitivu Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under resolution
No. 29/03 resolved at the meeting of the Karaitivu Pradeshiya
Sabha held on 28th October, 2011 in terms of Section 122 and
126(ix) item (b) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read
with Section 2(1) of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)
Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transfer, transportation, processing, treatment and disposal
of "solid waste" generated in public places, private premises,
on streets, thoroughfares within Karaitivu Pradeshiya Sabha
limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of
waste and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for
collection, transport and remove the waste within the
premises or cause to do so in accordance with the provision
of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid
waste generated within his premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other
method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall
be in accordance to the standard and specification
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
and maintain them in good condition and not put for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened
by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to
owners or occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18, 19 and 20 shall pay their Service
Searches as described under Schedule hereof as follows :–
(a) On or before the 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly ;
(b) On or before the 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
740
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-laws No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-laws No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises :
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in terms ( a) and (b) of Sub-section
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in term (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in item ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(
c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
741
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the erquirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in terms ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with ttypes of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices :
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) in Sub-section (i) of this By-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office.
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129).
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels :
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d
) Special waste.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the cntext otherise
requires –
"Hotel" means a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food or beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
742
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores :
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals - other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Vegetable and fruit store" means place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg stalls :
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in item (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not so handed over, together
with type of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law, shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Fish or egg stall" means a place where such items are
sotred for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking :
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this By-law and require the licensed pavement hawker
to pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya
Sabha taking the days of business and the volume of
waste to be generated.
(iii) At 
the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this By-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
743
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Pavement Hawker" means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item (d) of Sub-section (i) this By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection License issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Factory" has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
"Every person engaged in an act of excavation,
construction or demolition" includes any person engaged
for such service by an Employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, waster,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applciant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as following :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (
c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be depsited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in items (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially
made for that purpose and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
744
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized collector
or to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires ;
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
modical centre, medical laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
"Hazardous healthcare waste" means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughterhouses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-
law shall specify the slaughterhouse permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a license has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of sub-section (iii) of this By-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (iii) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Slaughterhouse" means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272).
"Meat stall" means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social. cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c
) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector subject to payment of a service charge as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
745
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the proceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha. it may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
746
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this By-laws, as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste ereated as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit.
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this By-law in event of non-compliance of the
provisions of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
cntravenes or violates any provisions provided under
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
747
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by micro-organisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neither re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on or
in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or
plants. Removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radio active or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” means waste which is not regulated
hazardous waste, which has physical or chemical
characteristics or both, that are different from
municipal, demolition, construction and wood wastes
and which potentially requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Pottuvil Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
748
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special Waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
trnasferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges :
Description of Service Classification of owner or occupier Category of owner or
Charge under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Category of owner Category of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
or occupier under occupier under occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-laws 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *–
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *–
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *–
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
*– Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on average basis taking the volume of waste disposed o f.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these By-laws –
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted families by the Divisional
Secretary of the division and assisted by the Government under the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/4

<!-- page 43 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
749
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower, Law and Order,
Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment of the Eastern
Province, do hereby grant approval to the By-law on Solid Waste
Management of the Dehiyathakandiya Pradeshiya Sabha under and
by virtue of power vested in me under Section 123(1) and (2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, read with the Provincial
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and order
publish effective from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man Power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee,
On this 25th day of June Two Thousand and Twelve.
Dehiattakandiya  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control
of segregation, storage, collection, transfer, transportation,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Dehiattakandiya Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under resolution
No. 10/03/i resolved at the meeting of the Dehiattakandiya
Pradeshiya Sabha held on 30th March, 2012 in terms of Section
122 and 126(ix) item ( b) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987 read with Section 2(1) of Provincial Councils (Consequential
Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transfer, transportation, processing, treatment and dispsal
of "solid waste" generated in public places, private premises,
on streets, thoroughfares within Dehiattakandiya Pradeshiya
Sabha limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of
waste and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for
collection, transport and remove the waste within the
premises or cause to do so in accordance with the provisions
of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid
waste generated within his premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other
method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall
be in accordance to the standard and specification
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
and maintain them in good condition and not put for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened
by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to
owners or occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and19 shall pay their Service
Searches as described under Schedule hereof as follows :
(a) On or before 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly,
(b) On or before 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.

<!-- page 44 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
750
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-laws No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-laws No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or diposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises :
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in items ( a) and (b) of Sub-section
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in items ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c
) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such

<!-- page 45 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
751
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices :
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) in Sub-section (i) of this By-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office.
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129).
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels :
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii)
Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherise requires –
"Hotel" means a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 46 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
752
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores :
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
“Vegetable and fruit store” means an place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg Stalls :
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in items (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not so handed over, together
with type of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law, shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
“Fish or egg stall” means a place where such items are
sotred for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking :
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this By-law and require the licensed pavement hawker
to pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya
Sabha taking the days of business and the volume of
waste to be generated.
(iii) At the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this By-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.

<!-- page 47 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
753
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
“Pavement Hawker” means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item (d) of Sub-section (i) this By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection License issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
“Factory” has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
“Every person engaged in an act of excavation,
construction or demolition” includes any person engaged
for such service by an Employer.
“Waste” includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, waster,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applciant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as following :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (
c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in items (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially
made for that purpose and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

<!-- page 48 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
754
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized collector
or to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
In this By-law, unless the context othewise requires ;
“Hospital” means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
modical centre, medcial laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
“Hazardous healthcare waste” means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughter houses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-
law shall specify the slaughterhouse permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a license has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of sub-section (iii) of this By-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (iii) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
“Slaughterhouse” means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272).
“Meat stall” means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social, cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c
) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the

<!-- page 49 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
755
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the preceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha, it may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,

<!-- page 50 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
756
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this By-laws, as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste ereated as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit.
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this By-law in event of non-compliance of the
provision of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
contravenes or violates any provision provided under
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an

<!-- page 51 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
757
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate’s Court.
(a) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by microorganisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neither re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on or
in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or plants
removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” waste which is not regulated hazardous
waste, which has physical or chemical characteristics
or both, that are different from municipal, demolition,
construction and wood wastes and which potentially
requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Dehiattakandiya Pradeshiya
Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.

<!-- page 52 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
758
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special Waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
trnasferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges :
Classification of owner or occupier Category of owner or
under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Description of Service Category of owner Category of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
Charge or occupier under or occupier under or occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-law 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
* Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on average basis taking the volume of waste disposed of .
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these By-laws ;
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted families by the Divisional
Secretary of the division and assisted by the Government under the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/5

<!-- page 53 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
759
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower, Law and Order,
Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment of the Eastern
Province do hereby grant approval to the By-law on Solid Waste
Management of the Alayadiwembu Pradeshiya Sabha under and by
virtue of power vested in me under Section 123(1) and (2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with the Provincial
Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and order
publish effective from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister’s Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee.
On this 25th day of June 2012.
Alayadiwembu  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control
of segregation, storage, collection, transfer, transportation,
processing, treatment and disposal of “solid waste” generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Alayadiwembu Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under resolution
No. 06 resolved at the meeting of the Alayadiwembu Pradeshiya
Sabha held on 24th November, 2011 in terms of Section 122 and
126(ix) item (b) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read
with Section 2(1) of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)
Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transfer, transportation, processing, treatment and disposal
of “solid waste” generated in public places, private premises,
on streets, thoroughfares within Alayadiwembu Pradeshiya
Sabha limits and all other incidental activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of
waste and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for
collection, transport and remove the waste within the
premises or cause to do so in accordance with the provision
of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid
waste generated within his premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other
method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall
be in accordance to the standard and specification
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
and maintain them in good condition and not put for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened
by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to
owners or occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and19 shall pay their Service
Searches as described under Schedule hereof as follows :
(a) On or before 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly,
(b) On or before 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.

<!-- page 54 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
760
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-laws No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-laws No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shal be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his cntrol to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or disposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises :
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in terms ( a) and (b) of Sub-section
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in term (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in item ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to require

<!-- page 55 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
761
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the requirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in terms ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices :
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) in Sub-section (i) of this By-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
“Occupier” means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office.
“Office” has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129).
“Shop” means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels :
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii)
Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires,
“Hotel” means a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim’s rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 56 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
762
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores :
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other biodegradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals - other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Vegetable and fruit store" means an place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg stalls :
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in item (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
together with type of waste specified in items ( c) and
(d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law, shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Fish or egg stall" means a place where such items are
sotred for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking :
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this By-law and require the licensed pavement hawker
to pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya
Sabha taking the days of business and the volume of
waste to be generated.
(iii) At the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this By-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.

<!-- page 57 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
763
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Pavement Hawker" means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item (d) of Sub-section (i) this By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection License issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Factory" has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
"Every person engaged in an act of excavation,
construction or demolition"
includes any person engaged for such service by an
Employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, waster,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applicant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as following :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be depsited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in items (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially
made for that purpose and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

<!-- page 58 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
764
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (i) shall be haned over to an authorized collector
or to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
In this By-law, unless the context othewise requires ;
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
medical centre, medcial laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
"Hazardous healthcare waste" means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughterhouses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-
law shall specify the slaughterhouse permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a license has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of sub-section (iii) of this By-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (iii) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Slaughterhouse" means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272).
"Meat stall" means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social, cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c
) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the

<!-- page 59 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
765
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the proceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha. it may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,

<!-- page 60 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
766
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this By-laws, as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a santiary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste ereated as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit.
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this By-law in event of non-compliance of the
provisions of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
cntravenes or violates any provisions provided under
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an

<!-- page 61 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
767
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by microorganisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neigther re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on
or in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or
plants. Removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” waste which is not regulated hazardous
waste, which has physical or chemical characteristics
or both, that are different from municipal, demolition,
construction and wood wastes and which potentially
requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Alayadiwembu Pradeshiya
Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.

<!-- page 62 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
768
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
transferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges :
Classification of owner of occupier Category of owner or
under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Description of Service Category of owner Category of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
Charge or occupier under or occupier under or occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-laws 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
* Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on average basistaking the volume of waste disposed of.
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these By-laws ;
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted families by the Divisional
Secretary of the Division and assisted by the Government under the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/6

<!-- page 63 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
769
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower, Law and Order,
Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment of the Eastern
Province do hereby grant approval to the By-law on Solid Waste
Management of the Pottuvil Pradeshiya Sabha under and by virtue
of power vested in me under Section 123(1) and (2) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and Order publish
effective from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee,
On this 25th day of June Two Thousand and Twelve.
Pottuvil  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control
of segregation, storage, collection, transfer, transportation,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Pottuvil Pradeshiya Sabha Limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under resolution
No. 89/2011 resolved at the meeting of the Pottuvil Pradeshiya
Sabha held on 24th November, 2011 in terms of Section 122 and
126(ix) item (b) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read
with Section 2(1) of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions)
Act, No. 12 of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transfer, transportation, processing, treatment and disposal
of "Solid Waste" generated in public places, private premises,
on streets, thoroughfares within Pottuvil Pradeshiya Sabha
Limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of
waste and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for
collection, transport and remove the waste within the
premises or cause to do so in accordance with the provision
of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid
waste generated within his premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other
method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding Sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall
be in accordance to the standard and specification
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
and maintain them in good condition and not put for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened
by prolonged exposure to misture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to
owners or occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and 19 shall pay their Service
Searches as described under Schedule hereof as follows :
(a) On or before 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly,
(b) On or before 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.

<!-- page 64 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
770
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-law No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his cntrol to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or disposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises :
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in terms ( a) and (b) of Sub-section
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carecasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in item ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(
d) Special waste.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such

<!-- page 65 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
771
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the erquirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in terms ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with types of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices :
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) in Sub-section (i) of this By-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbours
or persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office ;
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129) ;
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels :
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d
) Special waste.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherise requires –
"Hotel" means, a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food or beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 66 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
772
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores :
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals. Other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Vegetable and fruit store" means a place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg Stalls :
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in item (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not so handed over, together
with type of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law, shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Fish or Egg Stall" means a place where such items are
sotred for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking :
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this By-law and require the licensed pavement hawker
to pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya
Sabha taking the days of business and the volume of
waste to be generated.
(iii) At the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this By-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.

<!-- page 67 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
773
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Pavement Hawker" means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item ( d) of Sub-section (i) of this
By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection Licence issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Factory" has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
"Every person engaged in an act of excavation,
construction or demolition" includes any person engaged
for such service by an Employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applciant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as following :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c
) of
Sub-section (i) shall be depsited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in item (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially
made for that purpose and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection Licence issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

<!-- page 68 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
774
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (i) shall be haned over to an authorized collector
or to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
In this By-law, unless the context othewise requires ;
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
modical centre, medcial laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
"Hazardous healthcare waste" means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughterhouses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every licence issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-
law shall specify the slaughterhouse permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a licence has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of sub-section (iii) of this By-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (iii) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Slaughterhouse" means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272).
"Meat stall" means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social. cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section (i)
shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c
) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the

<!-- page 69 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
775
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the proceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha. it may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a licence or Environmental Protection
Licence in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the licence or
Environmental Protection Licence to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,

<!-- page 70 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
776
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this By-law, as approved by the Pradeshiy
Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection Licence,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a santiary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste ereated as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit.
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this By-law in event of non-compliance of the
provisions of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness in the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
cntravenes or violates any provisions provided under
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a
) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).

<!-- page 71 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
777
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by micro-organisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neigther re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on
or in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or
plants. Removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” waste which is not regulated hazardous
waste, which has physical or chemical characteristics
or both, that are different from municipal, demolition,
construction and wood wastes and which potentially
requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Pottuvil Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in

<!-- page 72 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
778
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special Waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
transferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges :
Classification of owner or occupier Category of owner or
under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Description of Service Category of owner Category of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
Charge or occupier under or occupier under or occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-laws 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
* Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on average basis taking the volume of waste disposed of .
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these By-laws ;
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted families by the Divisional
Secretary of the division and assisted by the Government under the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/7

<!-- page 73 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
779
EASTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Sivanesathurai Santhirakanthan, the Chief Minister and the
Minister of Finance and Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Manpower, Law and Order,
Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment of the Eastern
Province do hereby grant approval to the By-law on Solid Waste
Management of the Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha under and by virtue
of power vested in me under Section 123(1) and (2) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 and order publish
effective from the date hereof.
S
IVANESATHURAI SANTHIRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Local Government, Rehabilitation,
Resettlement, Rural Development, Man power,
Law and Order, Regional Administration,
Tourism and Environment of the
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister's Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Varothayanagar,
Trincomalee.
On this 25th day of June Two Thousand and Twelve.
Nintavur  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY-LAWS ON SOLID W ASTE MANAGEMENT
A By-law for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control
of segregation, storage, collection, transfer, transportation,
processing, treatment and disposal of "solid waste" generated in
public places, private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within
Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
In order to fulfill its duty as required by Section 93 of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, the Pradeshiya Sabha
formulated these By-laws and have passed same under resolution
No. 27 resolved at the meeting of the Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha
held on 22nd March, 2012 in terms of Section 122 and 126(ix) item
(b) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with Section
2(1) of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12
of 1989.
General  :
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to Solid Waste
Management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision,
inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection,
transfer, transportation, processing, treatment and disposal
of "solid waste" generated in public places, private premises,
on streets, thoroughfares within Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha
limits and all other incidential activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of
waste and in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. Owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area
of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store for
collection, transport and remove the waste within the
premises or cause to do so in accordance with the provision
of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall collect solid
waste generated within his premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other
method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be
segregated the waste collected in accordance with the
preceding sub-section of this By-law in accordance with
the provisions of By-law No. 8 to 21.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner
or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall
be in accordance to the standard and specification
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time
and maintain them in good condition and not put for
collection, if they are torn, punctured, broken or softened
by prolonged exposure to misture or if for any other
reason, they are likely to collapse or spilt when
reasonably handled.
(iv) Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles to
owners or occupiers if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected
in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in
accordance with the collection system and the time
Schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as
determined and publicly notified from time to time by
the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose
of waste materials that are detrimental or injurious to
health of occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the
sanitary conditions in that area.
(vii) The owners or occupiers described under By-laws 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 15, 18 and19 shall pay their Service Searches
as described under Schedule hereof as follows :–
(a) On or before 15th of the following month, those
who pay monthly ;
(b) On or before 28th of February of the respective
year, those who pay yearly in advance.

<!-- page 74 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
780
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road,
thoroughfare, lane, avenue, or any other public place or
premises, or a drain or a waterway, water reservoir or
the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste in an open space within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area and thereby pollute the
environment.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission
in terms of the provisions of By-laws No. 7 to discharge,
treat, process or dispose of any type of waste, he may
hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) Waste not processed, treated or disposed of under the
provisions of By-laws No. 7 or any type of waste not
collected by an authorized collector under the provisions
of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of By-laws Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the
waste within such premises except –
(a) In areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited
by the Pradeshiya Sabha ; or
(b) Certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste
in an incinerator or burner constructed in accordance
with a plan and standards approved by the Secretary of
the Pradeshiya Sabha or treat, process or bury waste in
the manner approved by the Secretary.
(iii) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or
treat the solid waste collected within that premises in a
manner approved by the Secretary as far as practicable.
Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector any solid waste on payment of a
Service Charge specified as determined by the Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the
nature of the waste disposed.
(iv) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant within
his premises, by the roadside of a street or thoroughfare
shall by prior arrangement with the Secretary hand over
that waste to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on
the payment of a Service Charge as determined by the
Secretary considering the volume of waste to be removed
of.
(v) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal
under his cntrol to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare
or in a public place. If excreta are passed, that person
shall be responsible for cleaning up the excreta and
disposing of it in accordance with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vi) No person shall discharge or disposit any types of waste
from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public
place within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(vii) Any application to Pradeshiya Sabha for construction
or renovation of a house or any other premises shall
include in that application the details of solid waste
generated during the construction and the programme of
storing, treating or processing of discharged materials.
8. Residential Premises :
(i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the
wastes collected by sweeping or by other method as
follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste
into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place
them in an area reserved for that purpose until removal.
The waste specified in terms ( a) and (b) of Sub-section
(i) shall be kept in a receptacle made of an impermeable
material which will be properly closed preventing the
entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector without delay.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector
types of waste specified in term (a) and (b) of paragraph
(i). If failed to do so, he shall together with the type of
waste specified in tem ( c) and ( d) hand over to the
Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-
storied building with a number of tenements, shall
segregate their waste as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph
(i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in
accordance with standards and specifications approved
by the Secretary and shall maintain them in  a clean and
sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in
Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of
Sub-section (ii) the Secretary has the power to require
the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such

<!-- page 75 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
781
bins or receptacles on or before a notified date and it is
the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance
with the erquirements of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put
segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove
types of waste specified in terms ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed,
together with ttypes of waste (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
10. Shops and Offices  :
(i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall
segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or
receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand
over types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and
(d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law to an authorized
waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex
with several stories and floors shall provide the required
number of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or
office in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary for depositing or collecting segregated waste
from such shops or offices.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in
Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste
into separate bins or receptacles.
(vi) Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an
authorized waste collector the types of waste specified
in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) in Sub-section (i) of this By-
law and that are not collected by an authorized collector
shall be handed over byt he owner or occupier as the
case may to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any
shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins
or receptacles specified in this By-law so as not to cause
any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbors or
persons engaged in services in such shop or office.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires –
"Occupier" means the owner of a shop or occupier or
caretaker of a business or an office ;
"Office" has the same meaning given in the Shops and
Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129) ;
"Shop" means a place where goods are kept for wholesale
or retail and includes a place where food or beverages
are kept for sale and a place where a barber shop or
beauty salon is operated.
11. Hotels :
(i) Any owner or any person authorized shall segregate
waste collected at the hotel premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c
) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him shall
put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste
and store in a suitable place until removal from the
allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person shall pack in a bin or other
receptacle made of plastic or metal properly secured
with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste
preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) Types of waste specified in items ( a), (b), (c) and (d) in
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv)
of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i)
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the cntext
otherwise requires –
"Hotel" means a place with or without sleeping facilities
where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for
consumption on payment of money and it includes a
restaurant, guesthouse, lodging house, rest house,
pilgrim's rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and
any other premises in which a business is carried out
in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 76 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
782
12. Vegetable and Fruit Stores  :
(i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit
store shall segregate the waste collected within his own
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Types of waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made
of impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured
properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or
any other animals - other waste shall be put into any
suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of
Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over shall
be handed over to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Vegetable and fruit store" means an place where vegetable
and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
13. Fish, Poultry and Egg stalls :
(i) The owner or person who carries out the business of a
stall for the sale of fish or poultry or egg shall segregate
their waste as follows :–
(a) Carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable
for human consumption ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Segregated waste specified in item (a) shall be placed in
a separate bin or other receptacle, types of waste specified
in item (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law
shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and
shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent
pollution.
(iii) Types of waste specified in items ( a) and ( b) of Sub-
section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
together with type of waste specified in items ( c) and
(d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law, shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Fish or egg stall" means a place where such items are
stored for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
14. Pavement Hawking :
(i) No hawker shall carry out a pavement business other
than a written permission obtained from the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(ii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the purpose of
issuance of a temporary license under Sub-section (i) of
this By-law and require the licensed pavement hawker
to pay a service charge in advance to the Pradeshiya
Sabha taking the days of business and the volume of
waste to be generated.
(iii) At the expiry of the licensed period the Secretary shall
refund the balance money after having set off the actual
service charge against the advance paid by the licensed
hawker as per Sub-section (ii).
(iv) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which
generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for
such waste, in accordance with the standards to be
approved by the Secretary. No such waste shall be put
on the pavement or highway or in a public place.
(v) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other
receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of
vehicles or pedestrians.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated
by reason of his business as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste (plastics, glass, tin,
paper) ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(vii) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other
receptacle. The waste specified in item (a) of Sub-section
(vi) of this By-law shall be placed inside a secured
receptacle preventing the entries of insects, rats or animals
and shall be kept closed except when required to place
additional waste inside.
(viii) Every pavement hawker shall hand over daily such types
of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Sub-
section (vi) of this By-law to an authorized collector or
together with such types of waste to the a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.

<!-- page 77 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
783
(ix) No pavement hawker shall keep the receptacles with
waste shall not be kept on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Pavement Hawker" means a person who sells goods or
provides a service on the pavement or roadside
temporarily.
15. Factories :
(i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect
waste generated by such factory within the factory
premises and segregate them as follows :–
(a) Bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to
an authorized collector. Any waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector, except item (d) of Sub-section (i) this By-law.
(iii) Hazardous waste as specified in item (d) shall be removed
according to the conditions set out in the Environmental
Protection License issued under the National
Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires ;
"Factory" has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
16. Excavation, Construction and Demolition  :
(i) Every person who excavates any street, road or any
public place or constructs or demolishes any structure
for providing gas, electricity, water, telephone facilities
or any other public amenities shall store such waste so
generated within the premises or in a place approved by
the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(iii) The waste referred to in Sub-section (i) of this By-law
may be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector on a payment of a service charge to the Secretary
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time.
In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires for
the purpose of this By-law ;
"Every person engaged in an act of excavation,
construction or demolition" includes any person engaged
for such service by an Employer.
"Waste" includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in
construction from the use of building materials and waste
generated during demolition or any construction.
17. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public
place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, waster,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities by
making an application shall obtain prior approval from
the Secretary for the purpose of this By-law and the
Pradeshiya Sabha shall taking, the arrangements made
by the applicant for the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in
a public place after completion of the proposed job and
the cost of removal of such waste into consideration
determine a sum of money being the waste disposal
deposit which the applicant to pay to the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall, if the applicant neglects to do so
prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applciant shall be required to pay an amount equivalent
to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is
granted.
(iii) Where any person fails or neglects to remove the entire
quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of
waste shall be removed in a manner to be decided by the
Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be
set off from the waste disposal deposit.
18. Hospitals :
(i) Every hospital shall be registered with the Pradeshiya
Sabha and the owner of the hospital shall segregate or
cause to be segregated waste generated within the
premises as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Hazardous healthcare waste.
(ii) Types of waste as specified in items ( a
), (b) and (c) of
Sub-section (i) shall be depsited in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal. Types of
waste as specified in items (d) of Sub-section (i) shall be
deposited in a bin or any other receptacles specially
made for that purpose and kept in a place set apart for
that purpose and shall be treated and/or removed in
accordance with the conditions set out in the
Environmental Protection License issued to that hospital
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980.

<!-- page 78 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
784
(iii) The waste as specified in items ( a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (i) shall be haned over to an authorized collector
or to the Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
In this By-law, unless the context othewise requires ;
"Hospital" means any premises (howsoever described)
used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing
and treatment of persons or animals suffering from any
illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic,
modical centre, medcial laboratory, maternity home and
veterinary hospital.
"Hazardous healthcare waste" means clinical waste, body
parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste
and sharps.
19. Slaughterhouses and sale of meat :
(i) No person shall slaughter animal and carry on trade of a
butcher unless issued a license by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose in accordance to the provisions provided
under the Butchers Ordinance (Chapter 272).
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-
law shall specify the slaughterhouse permitted to
slaughter animals, type of animals that can be
slaughtered, the manner in which the slaughter house
shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning
and removal of blood, intestines and other parts not
taken for human consumption and other conditions the
Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) Every person to whom a license has been issued under
Sub-section (1) or person authorized (hereinafter the
licensee) shall segregate their solid wastes as follows :–
(a) Offal, hair, hoofs, bones, undigested materials ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual wastes.
(iv) Segregated wastes shall be placed in a separate bin or
other receptacles, types of wastes specified in items (a),
(b) and ( c) of Sub-section (iii) of this By-law shall be
placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be
secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats,
insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(v) Types of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-
section (iii) of this By-law, may be handed over to an
authorized collector. Any such waste not so handed over,
shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector.
(vi) Waste water generated through the operations of the
slaughterhouses and meat stall shall be treated as per the
provisions of the National Environment Act, No. 56 of
1980.
For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context
otherwise requires.
"Slaughterhouse" means as provided in the Butchers
Ordinance (Chapter 272).
"Meat stall" means a place where such items are stored
for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
20. Other Premises :
(i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in
By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and
operates with the participation of the public, a religious,
social. cultural or educational activity or due to
maintenance of such an establishment as follows :–
(a) Food waste and other bio-degradable waste ;
(b) Reusable and recyclable waste ;
(c) Residual waste ;
(d) Special waste.
(ii) Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section
(i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that
special arrangements may be made to collect the waste
from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may
be subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles
and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) Types of waste as specified in items (a), (b), (c
) and (d)
of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to
an authorized collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector subject to a service charge as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
21. Streets and Public Places :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
take steps to plan, supervise, control and administer the
following :–
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the
streets, public places, thoroughfares, public drains,
watercourses and public markets situated within the
Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient
number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or
roads and in all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in public places,
at festivals, special events or any other event as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the

<!-- page 79 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
785
Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a
request from the organizers of such festival on special
events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste
bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and
remove the waste deposited therein before it becomes
a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e) to investigate any complaint received in respect of
the activities specified in the proceding sections and
take action forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial,
institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
22. Duties of the Pradeshiya Sabha :
(i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and
subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall
plan, supervise, control and administer followings :–
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle
waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programmes or propaganda
through media in relation to segregation, collection,
storage, discharge and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged
in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction,
reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge
systems,
(f) to issue the bag, sack, bind or other receptacle to
the owner or occupier in compliance to the standard
and specification that have been approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha according to the requirements in
order to ensure that effective and efficient
segregation, collection and store of waste,
(g) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out
collection days, times, methods and service charges
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha for different
types of waste in different areas of Pradeshiya
Sabha. It may include conditions for collection on
public holidays and make people aware,
(h) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to
authorized collectors separately, on time and
according to schedule,
(i) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste
and any other waste, that has not been handed over
to authorized collectors in compliance to provisions
of law,
(j) to hand over to an authorized collector waste
collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains
and the cleaning the public places and waste
collected from public bins and waste collected by
Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the
Secretary,
(k) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated
waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors, including arrangement for the processing
and treatment of part or all food and other bio-
degradable, reusable and recyclable waste as much
as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from
such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(l) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner
approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the
Central Environmental Authority,
(m) to obtain a license or environmental protection
license in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 and
subject to the conditions specified in the license or
environmental protection license to burn waste or
to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(n) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth
covers and boots to every employee engaged in
sweeping, collection, segregation, transportation,
transfer and disposal of waste,
(o) to check and approved details of the manner of
disposal of solid waste generated on construction
or renovation and the manner of storage, process
and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the
completion of the specified works where an
application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha
for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises,
(p) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for
the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(
q) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management
Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy
of Solid Waste Management and relevant legislation
which covers at least each calendar year in detail
and three years ahead for final disposal and such
plan shall be approved annually by the Pradeshiya
Sabha,

<!-- page 80 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
786
(r) to investigate any complaint received by the
Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities
referred to in items ( a) to (p) within three days for
any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for
any other complaint and take action forthwith.
23. Permits :
(i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person
who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures
compost, biogas or any other product where any
person –
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in
terms of this By-law, as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License,
issued in accordance with the provisions of the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) designates storage place for collected waste
constructed in accordance with the standards
approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected
waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Pradeshiya Sabha and without causing nuisance to
people,
(e) agrees to hand over residual or reject waste or any
other waste created as by products during
processing or treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment
of a service charge to the Secretary for collection of
such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time, where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits.
(f) where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to
issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in
writing of the reasons of such refusal or rejection
within thirty days of receipt of the application for
the permit.
(g) the Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period
of validity, the type or types of waste permitted
to be collected, the permitted area for collection of
such waste and other appropriate conditions,
(h) the Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under
this By-law in event of non-compliance of the
provisions of Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(ii) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit
is revoked under the provision of (h). In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity through media
in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation
of such permit.
24. Waste Disposal Areas :
(i) No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit,
disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a
waste disposal area reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
for that purpose to deposit any prohibited refuse which
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to
certain specified conditions.
(ii) No person shall provide, operate or use any land or
facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place
outside the land or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha
limits except with the prior written approval of the
authorized officer and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
25. Others :
(i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in
writing shall have the power at all reasonable times to
enter any premises and inspect as to whether the owner
or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of
these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager or any person
residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the
information required by the Secretary or any authorized
officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized
officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of
his powers under these By-laws.
(iv) Any authorized officer or any assistant of the authorized
officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may
be offered incentives according to the decisions made
by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(v) Any person who contravenes any provisions of these
By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
26. Violations and Penalties :
(i) If any person within the limits of the Pradeshiya Sabha
cntravenes or violates any provisions provided under
this By-laws from 3 to 20 and from 23 to 25 shall be an
offence punishable with fines as described hereunder
after the service of a written notice from the Secretary
and conviction thereof by a Magistrate's Court.
(a
) For any one of such contravention or violation the
penalty of a fine shall be Rupees Seven Hundred
and Fifty (Rs. 750).

<!-- page 81 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
787
(b) In the case of continuing contravention or violation,
an additional fine Rupees Two Hundred and Fifty
(Rs. 250) for every day during which the
contravention or violation is continued.
27. Interpretation :
Unless context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these
By-laws :–
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a
permit from the Secretary to collect and receive waste
under the provision of these By-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means a person who has been
authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or
carry out such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or
other container used for waste storage, discharge,
collection or transportation that complies with the
requirements set out in these By-laws.
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded
or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized
collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for
transportation for re-using, recycling, processing,
treatment or disposal facilities.
“Compost” means the final product of the degradation of
waste by microorganisms and it is a humus that could
be functioned as soil conditioner.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced
by a person or premises and put out for collection
either within or outside their premises or given to
authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collectors.
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is
neigther re-used, recycled, processed nor treated, on
or in land where it is intended to stay permanently.
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha
from time to time.
“Food Waste” means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetable, fruits
and other edible materials that cannot be used for
consumption.
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or
plants. Removed from a home garden.
“Hazardous Waste” means waste that is poisonous,
corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or
infectious in nature.
“Infectious waste” means equipment, instruments,
utensils and disposable things that may carry
communicable diseases including pathological
specimens.
“Special waste” waste which is not regulated hazardous
waste, which has physical or chemical characteristics
or both, that are different from municipal, demolition,
construction and wood wastes and which potentially
requires special handling.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises
or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf
of the owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to
manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or
recipient of rent and does not include a manager who
acts under the order of another person.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means Nintavur Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area” means the area declared under
the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
“Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector” means an employee
engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping,
collection, receipt or removal of waste from bins or
receptacles or a person who has entered in to a contract
with the Pradeshiya Sabha to perform such duties.
“Public place” means a road, ground, public land, road
reservation, playground, public building, cemetery,
bus stand, railway station, river, canal, stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway,
sea, beach or any other places commonly used by the
public.
“Recyclable waste” means by-waste that can be used to
produce new goods by changing their form in the
process so that they are no longer recognizable as
waste.
“Residual waste” means waste not considered as
biodegradable and re-usable/recyclable wastes.
“Reusable waste” means waste that can be utilized after
washing disinfection or cleaning by other means.
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a
ground in accordance with the accepted standards in
Sri Lanka to minimize the associated social, health
and environmental impacts.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha
constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15
of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha and any person
appointed to act as such Secretary or any officer of
such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this

<!-- page 82 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'27
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.07.2012
788
Act, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the
extent to which such officer is so empowered.
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types
according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Service charge” means fees to be charged to users of the
waste management services of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Solid waste” means  substances which have no consumer
value to person who abandoned them and includes
rubbish, garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain
cleanings and ash.
“Special Waste” means wastes that may pose danger to
the environment and may require special handling,
transportation, treatment and disposal.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an
owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public
collection point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is
trnasferred from smaller to larger vehicles for the
purpose of improving the transportation efficiency
of the waste from the transfer station to any recycling,
processing, treatment or disposal facility.
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection
point to processing, treatment or disposal facilities
using some form of human or animal or mechanically
powered vehicle.
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce
the potential harm or damage they may cause to people
or the environment.
S
CHEDULE I
Service Charges :
Classification of owner or occupier Category of owner or
under By-laws 8 and 9 occupier under By-laws
Description of Service Category of owner Category of owner Category of owner 10, 11, 12, 13, 15,
Charge or occupier under or occupier under or occupier under 18 and 19
By-law 8 By-law 9 By-laws 8 and
9 (Samurdhi)
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Service Charge for one month 50 75 30 *
Service Charge for one year 600 900 360 *
10% discount in cash of paying 540 810 325 *
Service Charge for whole year
before March of the
respective year
* Pradeshiya Sabha shall from time to time determine the service charge on average basis taking the volume of waste disposed of .
Unless the context otherwise requires, for the purpose of these By-laws ;
“Samurdhi” means and includes the families who have been categorized under Samurdhi assisted families by the Divisional
Secretary of the division and assisted by the Government under the poverty alleviation programme.
07-644/8