

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 403
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 396
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"110 – 2019 fmnrjdß ui 08 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'02'08
No. 2,110 –  FRiday ,  FEbRuaRy 08, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st March, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th February, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
393-b 81493- 5,403 (02/2019)
N. B.–   the list of Jurors in Kegalle district Jurisdiction areas in year 2019 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala, tamil 
and English languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
394
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
395
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
396
Posts – vacant
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Land Commissioner General's Department
REcRuitMENt oN oPEN baSiS to thE PoSt oF LEGaL oFFicER (GRadE iii oF ExEcutiVE GRadE)
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the citizens of Sri Lanka who have possessed following qualifications for the post 
of Legal Officer in the Land Commissioner General's Department.
1. Method of Recruitment. – candidates; who secure highest marks on the results of a structured 
interview conducted by an interview board appointed by the Public Service commission, out of 
the candidates who have possessed the qualification prescribed in the notification shall be recruited 
depending on the number of vacancies, for this purpose, a structured interview shall be conducted in 
accordance with the marking scheme (mentioned under No.06 below) approved by the Public Service commission.
2. Required Qualifications :
 (i)  Educational /Professional qualifications.– Shall have possessed a degree in law from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission or taken oaths as an attorney at Law at the Supreme court.
  (ii)  experience.– Shall have possessed an active professional experience of not less than three years after taking 
oaths as an attorney at Law of the Supreme court
 (iii)  Physical Fitness.– Every candidate shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and 
to perform the duties in the post.
 (iv)  Other :
 • Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 • Shall be of an excellent moral character
 • Shall have satisfied all the qualifications each and every way required for recruitment to the post as at the 
closing date of application.
3. Conditions for engagement in service and service conditions :
 i. this post is permanent 
 ii. this post is pensionable and shall be subjected to any policy decision that will be taken by the government 
in respect of the pension scheme entitled to you. Further, you shall contribute to the Widow/ Widowers’ and 
Orphans' Pension Scheme. You shall contribute to that at such percentage as may be determined from time 
to time by the Government.
 iii.  The appointment shall be subjected to a probation period of three years. The officer shall pass the First 
Efficiency Bar Examination mentioned in the procedure of recruitment within three (03) years from the date 
of recruitment to Grade III of Legal Officer.
 iv. You shall acquire the language proficiency of relevant level within five (05) years from the date of 
recruitment to the post as per Public administration circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and circulars 
issued consequently.
 v.  this appointment shall be subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission, 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the 
Government and other departmental orders.
4. Age limit.– the candidates shall not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at the closing date of 
the application.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
397
5. Salary Scale.– this post is entitled to the monthly salary scale of Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170- 
110,895/- (SL-1-2016) as per the schedule i of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. your 
salary is paid in accordance with the provisions of the said circular as stated by its schedule ii.
06. The structured interview shall be on the basis of following marking scheme :
Subject Maximum Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications 
degree in Law from a university recognized by university Grants commission 
- First class
- Second class upper division
- Second class Lower division
First class division in the final year of Law College 
Second class division in the final year of Law College
Note-10 marks shall be allocated if the candidate has passed the final examination 
with a merit pass (Marks shall be allocated for the maximum qualification 
only - Either for Degree or Law College qualifications)
20
15
10
15
10
20
02 Additional Professional Qualifications
doctorate in Law
Post Graduate degree in Law with a duration not less than 1 year
Post Graduate Diploma with a duration not less than 1 year in relevant field awarded 
from a recognized institution or Post Graduate diploma in Law.
[Five (05) marks for each diploma - Maximum marks 15]
Diploma with a duration not less than 6 months in relevant field awarded from a 
recognized institution.
[three (03) marks for each diploma - Maximum marks 15]
Certificate course with a duration not less than 3 months in relevant field awarded 
from a recognized institution.
[two (02) marks for each course - Maximum marks 10]
15
10
15
03 Additional Experience
Experience as an attorney at Law in Public or Private sector
- Five (05)marks per each year - Maximum marks 30
- More than six (06) months and less than one (01) year - 02 marks
(Excluding the period of 03 years which shall be completed to obtain basic 
qualification as a lawyer)
(Additional experience shall be confirmed by a certificate obtained from an Attorney 
at Law or a President's counsel or a Judge possessing a service period of not less 
than 20 years, official frank shall compulsorily be placed)
30

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
398
Subject Maximum Marks
04 Knowledge in information technology
information technology shall have been studied as a main subject for a degree from 
a university recognized by the university Grants commission
diploma course in information technology from a recognized government 
institution of which the duration is not less than one year or 1500 hours
Certificate course in Information Technology from a recognized government 
institution.
- 06 months/720 hours
- 03 months/360 hours
(Marks shall be allocated for the maximum qualification only)
15
10
07
05
15
05 Proficiency in English Language
Post Graduate degree/degree/ Post Graduate degree in Law/ degree in Law followed 
in English medium.
(Shall have answered all the question papers in English medium)
a diploma course in English from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission or an institution recognized by the government. (duration- one year or 
1500 hours)
A certificate course in English from a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission or an institution recognized by the government
- 06 months/720 hours
- 03 months/360 hours
15
10
07
05
15
06 Competence proved at the interview 05
Total 100
07. Identity of Candidates.– only the candidates who have submitted applications complete in every aspect shall 
be called for the structured interview.
Originals of all the certificates and duly certified copies shall be submitted at the interview.
any of the followings shall be accepted to prove the identity at the interview:
1. National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons-
2. the valid Passport.
08. Submission of the Application :
 (a) the applications shall be sent by Registered Post on or before 08.03.2019 to reach the following address. 
the applications received after the said date will be rejected.
  Land Commissioner General,
  Land Commissioner General's Department,
  No. 1200/6, Rajamalwatta Road, 
  battaramulla

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
399
 (b) “The application for the post of Legal Officer in 
the Land commissioner General's Department ” 
shall be indicated on the top left-hand corner of 
the envelope enclosing the application. 
 (c)  The Candidate's signature in the application form 
shall be attested by a Principal of a Government 
School / Justice of Peace/ commissioner of oaths/ 
attorney-at-Law/ Notary Public/ commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces/ Police officer 
holding a post which was published in the gazette 
or an Officer holding a permanent post in the 
Public Service with a consolidated monthly salary 
of over Rs. 47,615.
 (d)  the candidates who are already in Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service shall forward their 
applications through the respective head of 
department.
 (e)  a  specimen of the application form which shall be 
submitted has been given at the end of the notice. 
applications shall be prepared by the candidate 
using an A-4 size paper with its first page from 
No.01 to 08, second page from No.09 to 13 and 
third page from No.14 to 15.2. the candidates 
shall complete the applications in their own hand 
writings.
09. Providing false information.– if any information 
stated in the application is found to be false and incorrect 
prior to recruitment, your candidature shall be cancelled. if 
such false or incorrect information is found after recruitment, 
you shall be dismissed from the service subject to relevant 
procedures.
10. The Public Service commission shall reserve the 
right to fill or not to fill the vacancies.
on the order of Public Service commission,
 Secretary, 
 Ministryof Lands and Parliamentary Reforms,
 battaramulla.
Specimen application 
recruitment for the poSt of legal officer in the land 
commiSSioner general'S department 
(For official use only)
01. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Mis.) :–––––––––––.
 in Sinhala :–––––––––––.
 in English :–––––––––––.
 01.1 Name denoted by initials (Write clearly) :
   in Sinhala :–––––––––––.
   in English :–––––––––––.
02. N. i. c. Number :–––––––––––.
03. date of birth : 
 y ear :–––––––––, Month :––––––––,  date :––––––––.
 03.1 age as at the closing date of application :
   y ear :––––––––,  Month :–––––––,  date :––––––.
04. Sex (Male - M/Female - F) :
05. Marital Status :–––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
07. t elephone Number :
 Land Line :–––––––––––.
 Mobile :–––––––––––.
08. Particulars about degree in Law : 
   (i) university :–––––––––––.
   (ii) date the degree was offered :–––––––––––.
09. date you gave oaths as an attorney at Law of the 
Supreme court :–––––––––––.
10. active experience as an attorney at Law (No. of years) 
:–––––––––––.
11. Qualifications as per No.06 of the notice to call 
applications :
  (i) ......................................................................
  (ii) ......................................................................
  (iii) ......................................................................
  (iv) ......................................................................
  (v) ......................................................................

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
400
12. have you ever been convicted by any offence in a court 
of law? :
 y es/No
 12.1. if "yes", give particulars :–––––––––––––.
13. Certification from Candidate :
(a) i declare that the information provided by me 
in this form is true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge.
(b) i am aware that my candidature shall be subjected 
to cancellation if any information stated in the 
application is found to be false prior to recruitment, 
and i shall be dismissed from the service if such is 
found after recruitment.
(c) No change shall be made to any particulars provided 
herein.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Candidate's Signature.
date :–––––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the Candidate's signature :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms. ................................... who 
is submitting this application is personally known to me, 
and he/She has placed his/her signature in my presence on 
...................... under the above paragraph No.13.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––––.
Name of attester :–––––––––––––. 
designation :–––––––––––––. 
address :–––––––––––––.
(Please confirm by official frank)
15. Recommendation of the head of the department (only 
for the candidates who are already in Public Service /
Provincial Public Service)
15.1. According to the personal file of the officer, his/
her duties, conduct, attendance are satisfactory/
not satisfactory within immediately preceding 05 
years from the closing date of application.
 all the salary increments have /have not been 
earned. any disciplinary action has/has not been 
taken against the said officer
15.2. If the said officer is selected to an applied post, 
he/she shall be/shall not be released from the 
present post. i recommend /do not recommend the 
application.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department
 & Official frank.
date :–––––––––––––.
02–260
–––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of CuLTuRAL AffAIRS 
Posts vacant
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the qualified 
candidates of Sri Lanka for the following vacant posts 
in the department of cultural affairs.
 Post  Number of vacancies
data Entry operator 04
Project coordinator 01
book Store Keeper 01
2. Terms of engagement and Conditions.– 
these posts are permanent and pensionable. you 
will be subject to a decision of the Government  
to be made in principle in future on the Pension Method 
entitled to these posts.
Salary Code: MN 01-2016
Salary Scale : Rs. 27,140 -10x300- 11x350- 10x495-
10x660- Rs. 45,540
3. Qualifications :
 i.  Educational Qualifications :
 (a) Should have passed the General Certificate 
of Education (ordinary Level) Examination 
in six subjects with credit passes for 
language medium (Sinhala/t amil/English), 
mathematics and other two subjects in one 
sitting.
  and
 (b) Should have passed at least one subject other 
than the common General test in General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
Examination.
  and

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
401
 (c) 1.  Project Coordinator.– Should have completed National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) level 04 with 
relevant to the field of employment or any other technical qualifications recognized by the Tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission as equal in every manner to the above mentioned technical 
qualifications, after consultation with the Ministry of Higher Education and the institutions which issue 
such technical qualifications, will be a special qualification.
  2.  Data Entry Operator.– Should have possessed certificates after completion of a computer course not less 
than 720 hours, from an institution recognized by the tertiary and V ocational Education commission.
 ii. Professional Qualifications.– having followed a course on word Processing/type writing/stenography, recognized 
by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission will be a special qualification.
 
 iii. Experience.–  Experience in the relevant field will be a Special qualification.
 iV .  Physical Qualifications.– Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka 
and to perform the duties in the post.
 V.   Other Qualifications : 1. candidates should be citizens of Sri Lanka.
   2. candidates should possess an excellent character.
04. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years. (the upper age limit is not applicable to the 
persons who are currently in public service)
05. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitments will be made on the recommendation of a board of interview to test the 
eligibility, as prescribed by the director of cultural affairs. Recruitments will be made to the existing vacancies in the order 
of merit based on the marks obtained at the interview, after examining the qualifications.
Interview to test the eligibility :
Headings of giving marks Maximum Marks Pass mark
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 15
Not applicable
2. Additional Professional Qualifications 20
3. additional Experience 30
4. computer Knowledge 15
5. English Knowledge 15
6. competency shown at the interview 05
total 100
06. Duly filled applications, prepared in A4 sheets (8.27x11.69) as per the specimen given below should be sent 
to reach the director, department of cultural affairs, 8th Floor, Sethsiripaya, battaramulla on or before 22.02.2019 by 
registered post. incomplete applications and those received after the closing date will be rejected. (the post applied should 
be clearly written on the top left hand comer of the envelope enclosing the application.)
director of cultural affairs, 
department of cultural affairs, 
08th Floor, Sethsiripaya, 
battaramulla.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
402
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN FoRM
(For Office use)
application for the poSt of  ................................ in the department of cultural affairS
 1.  Name with initials :–––––––––––––. 
 2. Name in full :–––––––––––––. 
 3. date of birth :–––––––––––––. 
 4. age as at 22.02.2019 : years :–––––––––––––.  Months :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––.
 5.  National identity card No. : 
 6.  Sex :–––––––––––––.
 7.  address :–––––––––––––. 
 8.  telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
 9.  Educational Qualifications :
  i.  G.c.E. (ordinary Level)
    y ear :–––––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
01. 06.
02. 07.
03. 08.
04. 09.
05. 10.
  ii.  G.c.E. (advanced Level)  : 
    y ear :–––––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01.
02.
03.
04.
 10.  Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
 11.  Experience :–––––––––––––.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. i am aware that if any information contained in the application is found to be incorrect i will be liable to 
disqualification if the inaccuracy is revealed before the selection and to dismissal if it is so revealed after the appointment.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
02–420

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
403
mINISTRy Of INTERNAL & hOmE AffAIRS 
AND PROvINCIAL COuNCIL AND LOCAL 
GOvERNmENT 
Written Examination to Test Computer Literacy 
and Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in 
Class III of Grama Niladhari Service-2019
it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination and 
a written test in computer skills for the officers in class iii 
of Grama Niladhari Service will be held by the department 
of Examinations Sri Lanka, in the month of May in 2019 as 
per the approved recruitment procedure of Grama Niladhari 
Service, and the applications are called for the Examination.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class III of the Grama 
Niladhari Service will be held only in colombo, Kandy,  
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, trincomalee, 
batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, badulla, Ratnapura 
and Killinochchi. Numbers relevant to each town is indicated 
in the below table. Examination will be held only in the 
towns determined for the purpose. the list of relevant towns 
and town numbers are given below. the relevant section of 
the application should be filled by referring to the table of 
towns and town numbers given below. it will not be allowed 
to change subsequently the town/ towns indicated. any 
centre mentioned above can be canceled due to insufficiency 
of candidates and the candidates can be directed to a nearby 
centre.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
details on the divisional secretariat and the included 
district are indicated in the Schedule 01. the applicants 
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Amendment made to the Division, the Post and the closing date of applications called, for the post of  
Registrar of Birth and Death, Tamil Medium in Registrar General's Department 
coLoMbo diStRict
i do hereby amend the division and the post appeared in the Gazette Notification No. 08 - 948 published by me in the 
Gazette No. 2086 and dated 31.08.2018, as thimbirigasya, divisional Secretariat and for the post of Registrar of birth and 
death (tamil Medium), as depicted in the schedule, hereunder. Further, i hereby extend the closing date for submission of 
application until 08.03.2019.
02. Please note that all other details stated in the said notification, shall remain unchanged.
  N. c. Vithanage, 
  Registrar General.
SchEduLE
District Divisional Secretariat Applicable Division and Post Address of applications to be submitted
colombo  thimbirigasyaya birth and death Registrar in 
the divisional Secretariat of 
thimbirigasyaya (tamil Medium)
district Secretary,
additional Registrar General,
district Secretariat, colombo.
02-184
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
404
should clearly indicate the divisional secretariat and the 
allocated number as well as the district and the allocated 
number in the relevant place of the application as speci ﬁ ed 
in the Schedule. Changing of such information at a later 
stage will not be allowed. No any request with regard to a 
loss caused to the applicant for incorrectly mentioning the 
said information will not be considered and the applications 
without the divisional secretariat and the division number 
mentioned will be rejected.
3.0 (i)  This examination will be conducted by the 
Commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.
 (ii)  The rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation. Candidates will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the Commissioner- 
General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
4.0 Eligibility.– Ofﬁ cers who have been recruited to 
Grade III of Grama Niladhari Service as per the Procedure 
of Recruitment effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to 
appear for this Examination.
5.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects :–
 Subject Subject Marks Duration
  No.
1. Ofﬁ ce systems and 01 100 2 hours
  Accounts
2. Subject Related 02 100 2 hours
  Professional Knowledge
3. Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hours
 5.1 Ofﬁ ce Systems, and Accounts (Subject No. 01)
  Ofﬁ  ce Systems
  It is intended to test the candidate’s ability to 
apply the basic knowledge on ofﬁ ce systems used 
in Grama Niladhari of ﬁ ce and other government 
ofﬁ ces, ability to understand of ﬁ cial letters 
and documents properly and to present his/ her 
opinions/ observations through brief notes and the 
ability to draft a report on subject related matters. 
  Accounts
  It is intended to test the candidates of their 
knowledge on basic accounts and accounts 
systems used in the duties related to Grama 
Niladhari Service and other government 
ofﬁ ces, functions of cash control accounts and 
procurement procedures.
  Part I- Consists of a short answer test. Questions 
should be answered in the paper itself. 
Should answer all questions (25 marks)
  Part II- A paper consisting of 03 structured essay 
type questions. All 03 questions should be 
answered. (75 marks)
  5.2 Subject related professional Knowledge (Subject 
No. 02)
   This paper is designed to test knowledge of 
Grama Niladhari on the duties entrusted to him 
by various acts and regulations, ministries, 
departments provincial councils and other 
statutory institutions of the government.
  
Part I - Consists of a short answer test. 
Questions should be answered in 
the paper itself. Should answer all 
questions (25 marks)
Part II-  A paper consisting of 03 structured 
essay type questions. All  03 questions 
should be answered. (75 marks)
  5.3 Computer Test (Subject No. 03)
   The objective of this is to test whether the 
candidates is having following skills.
  Basic concepts of Information 
Technology  
  Windows Operating System
  Folder Management
Word Processing File Management
 Basic skills, screen 
familiarization, editing texts,
 Aligning text, fonts and 
attributes, indenting 
paragraphs, change of line 
spacing,
 Tab setting, ﬁ nding and 
replacing text,  spelling and 
grammar, thesaurus, working 
with columns, page setup, 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
405
printing  documents, creating 
tables. Sorting texts, file  
management, mail merging, 
working with macros
Spreadsheets  basic skills, formatting, 
editing, columns and ranges, 
insertion and deletion, sorting 
data, creating charts, printing, 
@ function, working  with 
macros, file management
data base introduction, basic skills, 
designing data base and use
  Formats,
  Queries, pop up Forms,
  dialog and message boxes
  Sorting
  obtaining reports
  use of macro 
Presentation/  basic Skills, editing, 
illustrations  formatting
 applying designs, inserting 
images,
 clip art and Graphs
 Slide transition and effects,
 animations
 using Presentation tools
 Preparing Masters, Printing 
slides and notes
 
internet introduction to internet, world 
wide web, how to navigate, 
Practical internet
 
Email introduction, basic skills, 
receiving mail,  sending 
mail, responding to mails, 
working with attachments, 
creating and using nicknames, 
composing messages,
this paper consists of two parts.
 Part i - 40 Multiple choice Questions/ short 
answer questions time 45 Minutes                                    
(40 Marks)
 Part ii - 05 Semi Structured questions. time 45 
Minutes (60 Marks)
Note.- Officers those who have obtained computer 
operating license awarded by National apprentice 
and industrial training authority and those who 
have obtained certificates (of which the recognition 
is equivalent or higher to computer operating 
license) on theory and practical knowledge of 
computer technology issued by the institutions 
recognized by tertiary Education and V ocational 
Education commission as per para 08 of annex 2 
of Recruitment Procedure for Grama Niladharies 
dated 29.09.2010 shall be exempted from the 
requirement of passing this computer test. Further, 
officers who have obtained the certificate of 
computer application assistant (NVQ - Level 
3) offered by National apprentice and industrial 
training authority shall also be exempted from the 
written test. 
6.0 the examination will be held in Sinhala and 
tamil medium and candidates should answer question 
papers in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the relevant service or in an official 
language. in case of candidates who entered the service 
without a competitive Examination, both papers should be 
answered in the language medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the 
language medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
7.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject and at 
different occasions at their discretion. however, they should 
score at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each 
subject for a pass. the date on which the examination held 
for the candidate to complete all the subjects shall be treated 
as the date of passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
8.0 the results of the examination will be issued by 
the commissioner General of Examination to me and 
action will be taken to notify the applicants the names of 
the candidates who have passed the examination through 
district Secretaries and divisional Secretaries.
9.0 the application for this examination should be 
in the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/ her self. 
applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
divisional Secretariat of their division Secretariat division 
to reach the Commissioner- General of Examinations, 
Organization (Establishment & Foreign Examinations) 
branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.O 
box 1503, Colombo, on or before 11th March 2019. the 
name of the examination should be indicated at the top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected. 
incomplete applications, too, will not be accepted.
10.0 Identity of the Candidates.– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
406
this purpose one of the following documents, along with the 
admission card issued by the department of Examinations on 
which the signature has been certified should be submitted 
to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card,
 (ii) a valid Passport,
 (iii) a valid driving License.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner - General of Examinations.
11.0 Applications.- applications should be prepared in a 
paper of  a4  size using both sides of the paper in such a manner 
that Title Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appears on the first page and 5.0 to 
7.0 on the second page. the application could be typewritten 
but it should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s 
own handwriting. application should strictly conform to the 
specimen appended and candidates are advised not to send 
more than one application or photocopies. applications that 
do not comply with the specimen and that have not been 
perfected properly will be rejected without notice. Please 
indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen 
in English language as well, on both Sinhala and tamil 
application forms. it is the responsibility of the candidate 
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/her 
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice 
and further it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
completed application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the first 
time need not pay examination fees. however, for subsequent 
sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination or two (02) 
subjects and Rs. 250/= for only one subject should be paid 
at any Post/ Sub Post Office island-wide or to a District/
divisional Secretariat to be credited to revenue head 2003-
02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. the 
receipt obtained in favor of the applicant should be affixed 
to the relevant cage of the applications form. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. it will 
not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination 
in favor of another. Further, no stamps or money orders for 
the examination fee will be accepted.
13.0 on the presumption that only the candidates 
who fulfill the qualifications specified under the Gazette 
notification have applied, the Commissioner- General 
of Examinations will issue copies of the time table and 
admission cards to all candidates whose applications have 
been received. issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled 
the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should 
get their signature on the admission card attested in advance 
and surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
candidates without such admission card will not be allowed 
to sit the examination. A notification will be published by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in newspapers and 
in the departmental official website as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates. "if there is any candidate 
who is yet to receive the admission card even after two or 
three days of such notification", it should be inquired from the 
organizations (Establishment and Foreign Examinations) 
branch, department of Examinations of Sri Lanka as 
stipulated in the advertisement. When such an inquiry is 
made name of the examination applied for, full name of the 
applicant, National identity card No. and address should be 
clearly mentioned. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
it will be more effective to send a letter of request to the 
fax number mentioned in the said advertisement furnishing 
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent. 
it would be advisable to keep a copy of the application 
form kept at applicant’s possession, copy of the receipt of 
examination fees and the receipt of registering the letter, in 
order to prove certain matters inquired by the department of 
Examinations.
13.1 Candidate's signature in the admission card should 
have been attested by the head of Establishment 
or an officer delegated by him. A candidate shall 
appear for the examination under the assigned 
index number at the relevant examination hall. 
14.0 the heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling 
them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses 
will be paid.
15.0 the candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations on the conduct of the examination imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examination. the candidates 
are liable to be subjected to any punishments imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and my decision 
shall be the final, in respect of any matter not provided for 
in this notification.
16.0 in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 
h. t. Kamal pathmaSiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of internal and home affairs and 
 Provincial councils and Local Government. 
Ministry of internal and home affairs and 
 Provincial councils and Local Government,
independent Square,
colombo-07,
on 19th
   January, 2019.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
407
Specimen form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFiciENcy baR ExaMiNatioN aNd WRittEN 
ExaMiNatioN to tESt coMPutER LitERacy 
FoR oFFicERS iN cLaSS iii oF GRaMa 
NiLadhaRi  SERVicE - 2019
Town Town No.
First choice 1.
Second choice 2.
( indicate the name and the number of the town 
in which you wish to sit for the examination, 
in the order of your choice, as per the Para 
No .2.0 in the Gazette Notification.)
Medium of examination :
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(this cannot be changed subsequently)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full ( in English block capitals):–––––.
  (eg. hERath MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMa  GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 1.2 Last Name With initials at the end :––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
  (eg. GuNa WaRdhaNa, h.M.S.K.) 
 1.3 Name in full  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
 
2.0 2.1 address to which the admission card should be 
sent  :–––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
 2.2 district and the district number to which the 
officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English block 
capitals)
 2.3 d ivisional Secretariat and divisional Secretariat 
number to which the officer is attached                              
:––––––––––. 
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English block 
capitals) :–––––––––––.
 2.4 district and the divisional Secretariat to which 
the officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 National identity card No. :
 3.2 Sex :-
  Female  - 1
  Male  - 0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
 3.3 date of birth :-  
  y ear : Month : date :
 3.4 t elephone No. : 
4.0 Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 5.0 of 
the Gazette Notification):
  Index No. Subject Subject No.
   01.
   02.
   03.
5.0 5.1 Grade :––––––––.
 5.2 Post :––––––––.
 5.3 date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––.
6.0 N.B.- the receipt of the examination fee obtained from 
the Post/ Sub Post Office in favour of the applicant 
should be affixed here firmly : 
 
  Receipt No. :–––––––––.
  Post/Sub Post Office :–––––––––.
  date :–––––––––.
  amount Rs. :–––––––––.
7.0  i declare that the above particulars are true and that i am 
eligible to appear for the examination in the language 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
408
medium indicated above. Further, i agree to be bound by 
the rules and regulations issued by the commissioner-
General of Examinations regarding this examination. 
And I affirm that, I sit for the said examination as my 
first sitting/ I have paid the relevant examination fee and 
the receipt has been affixed hereto.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––.
 Certification of the Divisional Secretary
i certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ..............................................
. Grama Niladhari, who works at Grama Niladhari division 
of  ................................. in divisional Secretary’s division 
of .......................................................and
 (i) has placed his/her signature in my presence ;
 (ii) have checked the details provided above ;
 (iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination :
 (iv) the officer is exempted from the examination 
fee since the first sitting/the recepit of the 
prescribed examination fee is affixed here (Delete 
inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––,
designation :–––––––––,
address:–––––––––,
date:–––––––––.
SchEduLE i
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
colombo 1103
Kolonnawa 1106
Kaduwela 1109
homagama 1112
hanwella 1115 colombo
Padukka 1118
Maharagama 1121 0   1
Sri Jayawardanapura 1124
 Kotte
thimbirigasyaya 1127
dehiwala 1130 colombo
Rathmalana 1131
Moratuwa 1133 0    1
Kesbewa 1136
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Negombo 1203
Katana 1206
divulapitiya 1209
Meerigama 1212
Minuwangoda 1215 Gampaha
Wattala 1218
Ja-Ela 1221 0       2
Gampaha 1224
attanagalla 1227
dompe 1230
Mahara 1233
Kelaniya 1236
biyagama 1239
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Panadura 1303
bandaragama 1306
horana 1309
ingiriya 1310
bulathsinghela 1312 Kalutara
Madurawala 1315
Millaniya 1318 0     3
Kalutara 1321
beruwala 1324
dodangoda 1327
Mathugama 1330
agalawatta 1333
Palindanuwara 1336
Walallawita 1339
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
409
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
thumpane 2103
Poojapitiya 2106
akurana 2109
Pathadumbara 2112
Panwila 2115
ududumbara 2118
Minipe 2121 Kandy
Medadumbara 2124
Kundasale 2127 0      4
Gangawata Korale 2130
harispattuwa 2133
hataraliyadda 2134
yatinuwara 2136
udunuwara 2139
doluwa 2142
Pathahewaheta 2145
delthota 2148
udapalatha 2151
Gangaihala Korale 2154
Pasbage Korale 2157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Galewela 2203
dambulla 2206  
Naula 2209 
Pallepola 2212  
yatawatta  2215 Matale
Matale  2218 
ambangaga Korale 2221 0     5
Laggala Pallegama 2224 
Wilgamuwa 2227 
Raththota 2230
ukuwela 2233
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kothmale 2303 Nuwara
haguranketha 2306 Eliya
Walapane 2309 
Nuwara Eliya 2312 0     6
ambagamuwa 2315
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
benthota 3103
balapitiya 3106
Karandeniya 3109
Elpitiya 3112
Niyagama 3115
thawalama 3118
Neluwa 3121 Galle
Nagoda 3124
baddegama 3127 0      7
Welivitiya divithura 3130
ambalangoda 3133
hikkaduwa 3136
Gravets 3139
bope Poddala 3142
akmeemana 3145
yakkalamulla 3148
imaduwa 3151
Gonapeenuwala 3154
habaraduwa 3157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Pitabeddara 3203  
Kotapola 3206
Pasgoda 3209  
Mulatiyana 3212
athuruliya 3215
akuressa 3218
Welipitiya 3221 Matara
Malimbada 3224
Kamburupitiya 3227 0    8
hakmana 3230
Kirinda Puhulwella 3233
thihagoda 3236
Weligama 3239
Matara 3242
devinuwara 3245
dikwella 3248

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
410
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Sooriyawewa 3303
Lunugamwehera 3306
thissamaharama 3309
hambanthota 3312 hambanthota
ambalanthota 3315
angunakolapelessa 3318 0    9
Weeraketiya 3321
Katuwana 3324
okewela 3327
beliatta 3330
tangalle 3333
Walasmulla 3336
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kayts (island North) 4103
chankanei (Walikamum 
 West) 4106
Sandilipay (Walikamum 
 South West) 4109
thelippalei   
 (Walikamum North) 4112
uduvil (Walikamum   
 South) 4115
Kopai (Walikamum 
 East) 4118
Karaweddi   Jaffna
 (Wadamarachchi 4121
 South West)  1     0
Maruthankerny  
 (Wadamarachchi East) 4124
Point Pedro 
 (Wadamarachchi  4127
 North)
chawakachcheri  
 (thenmarachchi) 4130
Nallur 4133 
Jaffna 4136
Velanai (island South) 4139
delft 4142
Kareinagar 4145
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mannar 4203
Manthai West 4206 Mannar
Madu 4209
Nanaddan 4212 1     1
Musali 4215
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Vavuniya North 4303 Vavuniya
Vavuniya South 4306
Vavuniya 4309 1     2
Vengalacheddikulam 4312
 
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
thunukkai 4403
Manthai East 4406 Mullativu
Pudukuduirippu 4409
oddusudan 4412 1     3
Maritimepattu 4415
Welioya 4418
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Pachchilaipalli 4503 Kilinochchi
Kandawalai 4506
Karachchi 4509 1    4
Punakari 4512 
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Koralepattu North 5103
Koralepattu West 
 (oddamawadi) 5106 batticaloa
Koralepattu 
 (Valaichchenai) 5109 1    5
Eravurpattu 5112

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
411
Eravurpattu town 5115
Manmunei North 5118 batticaloa
Manmunei West 5121
Kaththankudi 5124 1    5
Manmuneipattu 5127
Manmunei South West 5130
Porativupattu 5133
Manmunei South 5136
Koralepattu South 5139
Koralepattu central 5142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
dehiaththakandiya 5203
Padiyathalawa 5206
Maha oya 5209
uhana 5212
ampara 5215
Nawindaweli 5216
Samanthurei 5218 ampara
Kalmuna-tamil 5224
Saindamarudu 5225 1    6
Karativu 5227
Nindavur 5230
addalachchena 5233
Eragama 5234
akkaraipattu 5236
alayadivembu 5239
damana 5242
thirukkovil 5245
Pothuvil 5248
Lahugala 5251
Kalmuna - Muslim 5254
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Padavi Sri pura 5303 t rincomalee
Kuchchaveli 5306
Gomarankadawala 5309 1   7
Morawewa 5312
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
town and Gravets 5315
thambalagamuwa 5318 t rincomalee
Kanthale 5321
Kinniya 5324 1   7
Muthur 5327
Seruvila 5330
Verugal/ 5333
 Echchalampattuwa
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Giribawa 6103
Galgamuwa 6106
Ehetuwewa 6109
ambanpola 6112
Kotawehera 6115
Rasnayakapura 6118
Nikaweratiya 6121
Mahawa 6124
Polpithigama 6127
ibbagamuwa 6130 Kurunegala
Ganewatta 6133
Wariyapola 6136 1      8
Kobeigane 6139
bingiriya 6142
bamunakotuwa 6149
Maspotha 6151
Kurunegala 6154
Mallavapitiya 6157
Mawathagama 6160
Rideegama 6163
Weerambugedara 6166
Kuliyapitiya East 6169
Kuliyapitiya West 6172
udubaddawa 6175
Pannala 6178
Narammala 6181
alawwa 6184
Polgahawela 6187
Paduwasnuwara East 6190
Paduwasnuwara West 6193
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
412
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kalpitiya 6203  
Wanathavilluwa 6206
Karuwalagaswewa 6209 
Nawagaththegama 6212
Puttlam 6215
Mundalama 6218 Puttlam
Mahakumbukkadawala 6221
anamaduwa 6224 1    9
Pallama 6227
arachchikattuwa 6230
chilaw 6233
Madampe 6236
Mahawewa 6239
Naththandiya 6242
Wennappuwa 6245
dankotuwa 6248
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Padaviya 7103
Kebithigollewa 7106
Medawachchiya 7109
Mahawilachchiya 7112
Nuwaragampalatha  7115
 central
Rambewa 7118
Kahatagasdigiliya 7121 a nuradhapura
horoupathana 7124
Galenbindunuwewa 7127 2    0
Mihinthale 7130
Nuwaragampalatha  7133
 East
Nachchaduwa 7136
Nochchiyagama 7139
Rajanganaya 7142
thambuttegama 7145
thalawa 7148
thirappane 7151
Kekirawa 7154
Palugaswewa 7157
ipalogama 7160
Galnewa 7163
Palagala 7166
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
higurakgoda 7203 
Medirigiriya 7206
Lankapura 7209 Polonnaruwa
Welikanda 7210 
dimbulagala 7212 2   1
thamankaduwa 7215 
Elahera 7218
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mahiyanganaya 8103
Rideemaliyadda 8106
Meegahakiula 8109
Kandaketiya 8112
Soranathota 8115
Passara 8118 badulla
Lunugala 8119
badulla 8121 2    2
hali Ela 8124
uwa Paranagama 8127
Welimada 8130
bandarawela 8133
Ella 8136
haputhale 8139
haldummulla 8142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
bibila 8203
Madulla 8206
Medagama 8209
Siyambalanduwa 8212
Monaragala 8215 Monaragala
badalkumbura 8218
buttala 8221 2    3
Wellawaya 8224
Kataragama 8227
thanamalwila 8230
Sewanagala 8233

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
413
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Eheliyagoda 9103  
Kuruwita 9106
Kiriella 9109  
Rathnapura 9112
imbulpe 9115
balangoda 9118 Rathnapura
opanayake 9121
Pelmadulla 9124 2    4
Elapatha 9127
ayagama 9130
Kalawana 9133
Niwithigala 9136
Kahawatta 9139
Godakawela 9142
Weligepola 9145
Embilipitiya 9148
Kolonna 9151
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Rambukkana 9203
Mawanella 9206
aranayake 9209
Kegalle 9212 Kegalle
Galigamuwa 9215
Warakapola 9218 2    5
Ruwanwella 9221
bulathkohupitiya 9224
yatiyanthota 9227
dehiovita 9230
deraniyagala 9233
02–251
–––––––––––––––––––––
JuDICIAL  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Open Written Competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade III of the Court Registrars’ Service of 
Sri Lanka in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service – 2018 (2019)
aPPLicatioNS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess the required qualifications for the Open Written 
competitive Examination for recruitment to Grade iii of the  court Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka.
01. Recruitments are made to Grade iii of the court Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka through this examination.
Written examination.- the examination consists of four (04) question papers as follows :
Subject 
No : Question Paper Time Total Marks Maximum marks 
required to pass
01. General knowledge and  intelligence Quotient test 02 hours 100 40
02. administration and Management 01 hour 100 40
03. English Language Proficiency 1 ½ hours 100 40
04. Substantive and Procedural Laws of Sri Lanka 01 hour 100 40
Date of the Examination.– the examination will be held in May 2019 at the examination centers located in the 
towns mentioned in Schedule 01 given below. the Secretary, Judicial Service commission reserves the right to postpone or 
cancel this examination subject to the instructions of the Judicial Service commission. 
the examination will be held only in the examination centers located in the towns mentioned in Schedule – i. 
the expected town to sit for the examination shall be selected as per said Schedule and the town expected to sit for the 
examination and the relevant number of the town should be mentioned correctly in the application form according to 
Schedule – i. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
414
applicants are not allowed to change the town which 
they have mentioned in the application form to sit the 
examination later. at the instances where the number of 
applicants apply for a certain town is not sufficient to hold 
an examination centre, they will be directed to the town 
which they have indicated as second preference or to an 
examination centre located in an adjoining town and in 
an instance where the number of applicants applied is not 
sufficient to hold examination centers in all or majority of 
proposed towns according to the number of applicants that 
have applied for the examination, the commissioner General 
of Examinations will proceed to conduct the examination 
only in colombo. 
Interview.– a number of applicants equal to the number of 
vacancies allocated for said examination may be appointed 
following descending order beginning from the highest 
scorer of marks amongst the applicants who have passed 
all the subjects of the examination after an interview for 
verification of qualifications. However, the Judicial Service 
Commission may determine not to fill a certain number of 
vacancies. 
02. Conditions of Service :-
 2.1 applicants shall be appointed to Grade iii of 
the court Registrars’ Service subject to general 
conditions governing the appointments in the 
Public Service, terms and conditions set out 
by the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service 
Minute published in the Gazette extraordinary 
of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
No : 2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, amendments 
already made and will be made thereto in due 
course to the said Service Minute, Provisions of 
Establishments code and Financial Regulations.
 2.2 this post is permanent and pensionable. 
though it has been stated above that the posts 
in the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service are 
pensionable, the officers that are to be recruited 
to Grade iii of the court Registrars’ Service 
in future will be subjected to decisions taken 
by the Government and / or Judicial Service 
commission in relation to the Pension Scheme 
applicable to them.
 2.3 this appointment is subject to a probation period 
of three years. The Efficiency Bar Examination 
shall be passed within 06 years after recruitment 
to Grade iii of the court Registrars’ Service of 
Sri Lanka as prescribed in 8:13 in the Service 
Minute.
 2.4 Proficiency in the relevant level of the other 
language prescribed for Grade iii of court 
Registrars’ Service should be achieved within 
05 years after appointment in terms of the 
Public administration circular 01/2014 and 
amendments done there to and Judicial Service 
commission circular No: 396 and amendments 
done there to. 
 2.5 the appointments of the applicants who fail 
to assume duties in the post to which they are 
appointed on the due date and / or applicants 
who refuse or neglect to assume duties in a post 
or in an area into which they are appointed, shall 
be cancelled at the discretion of the Judicial 
Service commission.
03. Monthly salary scale.– as per Judicial Service 
commission circular No : 386 dated 24/06/2016 issued 
subsequent to No : 03/2016 by the Judicial Service 
commission, the monthly salary scale applicable to 
Grade iii of the court Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka in 
the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service is (MN 7 – 2016) 
41,580- 11x755- 18x1,030 - 68,425 (initial salary step 
03 – Rs. 43,090/-) and you will obtain said salary from  
01.01.2020. Salary will be paid from the effective date of 
the appointment in terms of provisions set out in Schedule 
ii of above circular.
04. Recruitment Qualifications .– applicants shall have 
completed following qualifications to be recruited to Grade 
iii of court Registers’ Service   of Sri Lanka in the Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service :
(a) (i) be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) applicant should be a person of an  excellent 
moral character.
 (iii) all the applicants recruited to the  Scheduled  
Public  Officers’ Service shall have  a sound 
physical and  mental  fitness  to serve in any 
part of the island and to perform the duties of 
the  post.
 (b) attorney – at – Law of the Supreme court.
   or
 (c) Shall have obtained a degree from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission 
or an institute recognized by the university Grants 
commission as a degree awarding institute or any 
other qualification considered as equivalent by 
the Judicial Service commission. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
415
 Note : date of enrolment as an attorney – at – Law or the 
effective date of the degree should be on or before 
the closing date of the application.  
 (d) Age : Should be not less than 22 years and not 
more than 45 years of age on the closing date of 
applications. 
  “accordingly only whose date of birth falls on 
08/02/1997 or prior to said date and whose date 
of birth falls on 08/02/1974 or after said date will 
qualify to apply.”
  (the upper age limit shall not be applicable 
to officers who are already in the Government 
Service, Provincial Public Service and Scheduled 
Public Officers’ Service)
N.B. :   it is compulsory that every applicant should 
have fulfilled all the qualifications required for 
the respective post by 08
th February 2019, which 
is the date of the Gazette notification, or prior to 
said date.
05. examination Fees –  the examination fee is Rs.600/-. 
the receipt obtained by paying said amount to Peoples’ bank 
dam Street branch to the  credit of the  account of “Secretary, 
Judicial Service commission” No. 297100199025039 
should  be affixed  using  one  edge  of the  receipt  on the  
due place of the application so as not to be detached. ( a 
photo copy of the receipt should be kept with the applicant 
for future use.) 
06. Method of applying :
 (a) applications should be prepared in compliance 
with the specimen application form annexed to 
this notification using both sides of the paper of 
size 8 ½"x12" (a4) and it should be completed 
in applicant’s own handwriting.  computerized/ 
typed applications can also be used for this 
purpose.
  applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen form 
will be rejected without any notice.  (it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form).  it is the responsibility of the 
applicant to make sure that the application form 
perfected by him/her complies with the specimen 
given in the examination notice, as otherwise the 
application may be rejected.
 (b) application should be prepared in the language 
medium in which the applicant wishes to sit the 
examination.
 (c) applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the address    “ Secretary, 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat , 
colombo 12” on or before 11
th March 2019.
  the words “ open Written competitive 
Examination for recruitment to Grade iii of 
the court Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka in 
the Scheduled Public Officers’ Service – 2018 
(2019)” should be clearly written on the top 
left – hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. any application received 
after the due date will be rejected. 
 (d) applicant’s signature in the application form 
should have been attested by a Principal of 
a Government School, a Justice of Peace, 
commissioner for oaths,  an attorney – at – 
Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in 
the Armed Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted 
post in the Police Service or a Staff Officer 
holding a permanent post in the Public Service. 
 
 (e) incomplete applications will be rejected. No 
complaints regarding applications lost or delayed 
in the post will be entertained.
 (f) Receipt of application will not be acknowledged. 
the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka will 
publish a notice in News Papers and departmental 
web sites once the admission cards are issued to 
the applicants.  however, if admission cards are 
not received even after 02 or 03 days of such 
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka 
in the manner specified in the advertisement.  
When informing, the name of the examination 
applied for, full name of the applicant, address 
and national identity card number should be 
mentioned.  it would be advisable for applicants 
outside colombo to fax a letter of request 
along with a fax number of the applicant to the 
department of Examinations through the fax 
number 011 – 2784232 for sending a copy of the 
admission.  Further to that it would be advisable 
to keep a copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
and the postal article of sending the application 
to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
416
  Refund or transfer of examination fees for 
another examination will not be allowed under 
any circumstances while money orders and 
stamps will not be accepted in respect of the fee.
07. Admission to the examination :
(a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all applicants who 
have sent applications which are complete in 
every aspect.  an applicant who does not present 
the admission card will not be permitted to sit 
for the examination.
(b) an applicant should appear for the examination 
at the centre specified for him/her.  All the 
applicants should get the signature placed in 
the admission card relevant to the prescribe 
examination centre ordered to attested and 
present it to the head of the examination hall 
on the first day they sit the examination.  A 
set of rules to be observed by all applicants 
is published at the beginning of this Gazette 
notification. Applicants shall be bound by 
the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations for the 
purpose of conducting the examination.  if an 
applicant violates these rules he/she is liable for 
a punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
Note:- the issuance  of an admission card to an 
applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has 
the required qualifications to sit the examination.
08. identity of the applicants.– applicants will be 
required to prove their identify in the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they offer.  
For this, any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) National identity card
(b) a  valid passport
(c) a  valid driving license.
09. Penalty for furnishing false information.– if it is 
found that any applicant is not eligibl e, his/her candidature 
can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the 
examination.  if any of the particulars furnished by the 
applicant is found to be false with his/her knowledge or if 
he/she has willfully suppressed any important fact, he/she 
will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
applicants shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for the purpose of conducting the examination and 
issuance of results and they shall be liable to be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.  
10. any matter not provided for in these rules will be 
dealt with as determined by the Secretary, of Judicial Service 
commission subject to the instructions of the Judicial 
Service commission.
11.  (a) Examination will be held in Sinhala and tamil 
media.
 (b) an applicant should sit the examination in 
the language medium through which he/she 
obtained the qualifying degree or in the official 
language. 
 (c) When an applicant has passed the qualifying 
degree in two languages or more he/she should 
sit the examination in the language in which he/
she appeared for the majority of the subjects 
related to his/her degree or in any official 
language. 
 (d) an applicant who has obtained a Special degree 
in which he/she has passed the main subject in 
one language and additional subjects in another 
language, should sit the examination in the 
language he/she passed the main subject or in 
any official language. 
Note: (i)  an applicant should answer all the question 
papers in one and the same  language.
 (ii)  an applicant is not allowed to change the 
language medium indicated in the application.
 (iii)  examination Results:- issuance of results to 
applicants will be made by the commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or via the 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk
12. Syllabus of the written examination :
 (i) General knowledge and Intelligence Quotient 
Test : 
  it is expected to test the applicant’s knowledge 
of important social, economic, cultural 
and political current affairs and scientific 
technological development at local and 
international level. it is expected to assess the 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
417
ability for reasoning through the questions in 
intelligence Quotient test and these questions 
are presented to the applicant in relation to 
numerical, lingual and figurative structures and 
inter – relations. 
 (ii) Administration and Management :
  it is expected to test applicant’s ability to 
respond to cases/problems and theoretical and 
practical knowledge the applicant possesses 
in solving them by presenting cases/problems 
that may arise within the administration/
Management field.
 (iii) English Language Proficiency : 
  this paper will be of the standard of English 
Language paper in G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.  
it is expected to test similar knowledge.
 (iv) Substantive and Procedural Laws of Sri Lanka
   it is expected to test the applicant’s knowledge 
in,
 • Constitutional Law
 • Personal Laws
 • Judicature Act
 • Evidence Ordinance
 • Penal Code
 • Criminal Procedure Code Act
 • Civil Procedure Code
Note: illegible handwriting will be penalized.  
 these papers will consist of multiple choice 
questions, short questions, questions on 
structured essays and essays.
13. in the event of any inconsistency or contradiction 
between the Sinhala, tamil and English medium 
notifications, the Sinhala notification shall prevail.
by order of the Judicial Service commission,
    
 h.S. 
Somaratne,
                 Secretary,
   Judicial Service commission.
Judicial Service commission Secretariat,
colombo 12,
01st February 2019. 
SPEciMEN  aPPLicatioN  FoRM
open Written competitive examination for recruitment 
to grade iii of the court regiStrarS’ Service of Sri 
lanKa in the Scheduled public officerS’ 
Service -2018(2019)
       
                       (For office use only)
01. Medium :
  Language medium of examination
   Sinhala  - 2
   t amil     -  3
 (indicate the correct number in the cage)
  • Indicate the town and the town number which 
the applicant intends to sit the examination as per 
the Gazette notification. (See Schedule – I for the 
towns where the examination centers are located 
and for the respective numbers.)
town Number of the town
1.
2.
02. Personal details:  
  2.1 Name in full :––––––––––––––. 
   (in English block capitals)
  2.2 Last name with initials: Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––.
   (in English block capitals )     
   Eg. SiRiWaRdaNa , a.P.K.
  2.3 Name in full :––––––––––––––.
    (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.4   Official Address (In English block capitals)  
(admission card will be posted to this address)  :                 
––––––––––––––.
 
  2.5 Official Address (In Sinhala/ Tamil) :––––––––––.
  2.6 Personal address (in Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––––.
  2.7 Residing district :––––––––––––––.
  2.8 Sex: Male- 0  Female-1   
    (indicate relevant number in the cage)
  2.9 National identity card No. :

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
418
 2.10 civil Status : 
   Married-1 unmarried -2
   (indicate relevant number in the cage)
  2.11  date of birth :
       date :              Month : y ear  :                     
  2.12 age as at 08.02.2019 :
            y ears  :                  Months :             days :          
 2.13 contact Number :
   Fixed:     
   Mobile : 
03. Educational Qualifications :
  (a) date of enrolment as an attorney at-Law :––––––.
  (b) if the applicant is a graduate :
   1. degree :––––––––––––.
   2. date of completing the degree  :––––––––––––.
   3. Name of the university  :––––––––––––.
  (c)  Equivalent educational or professional qualifications :
   1. university / institution :––––––––––––.
   2. Qualifications :––––––––––––.  
   3. Date of fulfilling the qualifications :–––––––––.
04.  Other qualifications :––––––––––––.
05. have you ever been convicted for any offence by any 
court?
 (Indicate the mark (√) in the relevant cage) (If yes, give 
particulars)
   y es  No          
                          
  ………………………………………….
06.  Particulars of the receipt obtained by paying the 
examination fee:
    Office to which the payment was made :––––––––––––.
    Number and date of the receipt  :––––––––––––.
    amount :––––––––––––.
 
Affix the receipt firmly here.
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the 
applicant)
07. Applicants Certificate :
  (a) i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best 
of my knowledge.  i agree to bear any consequence 
that may arise as a result of incompleteness of 
sections and/ or provision of erroneous information.  
i also state that all sections herein have been 
correctly filled.
  (b) i am aware that if any particulars contained herein 
are found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service if 
the inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
  (c) Further  to  that, i  herby  agree to  abide  by all  
the  conditions  imposed   by  the  commissioner 
General of Examinations for the purpose of holding 
this examination.
  (d)  i shall not change any information mentioned 
herein subsequently. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
08. attestation of applicant’s signature :––––––––––––.
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss./…………………… 
who submits this application is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence 
on ……………. and further the applicant has paid the 
prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the 
application.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by the Official Stamp)
Certification of the Head of Department
i hereby recommend that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………. 
serving in this …………… has fulfilled educational 
qualifications required to apply for Grade III of Court 
Registrars’ Service of Sri Lanka that he/she could be 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'08
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2019
419
released from the present post if selected for this post, that 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence and that i 
submit his/her application herewith. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the head of department.
  (Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––––.
Schedule – i
Town Number of the Town
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Kandy 04
Matale 05
Nuwara- Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
hambantota 09
Town Number of the Town
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Vavuniya 12
Mullaitivu 13
Kilinochchi 14
baticaloa 15
ampara 16
trincomalee 17
Kurunegala 18
Puttalam 19
anuradhapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
badulla 22
Monaragala 23
Ratnapura 24
Kegalle 25
02–560
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.