

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
RAHULA COLLEGE MATARA PAST PUPILS
ASSOCIATION (COLOMBO BRANCH)
(INCORPORATION) ACT, N O. 6 OF 2012
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 08th March, 2012]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 09, 2012

<!-- page 2 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
1
[Certified on 08th March, 2012]
L.D.—O. Inc 24/2010.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE RAHULA COLLEGE, MATARA PAST PUPILS
ASSOCIATION (COLOMBO BRANCH)
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Rahula
College, Matara Past Pupils Association (Colombo Branch)”
has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out it’s objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the serveral objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the said application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Rahula College, Matara
Past Pupils Association (Colombo Branch) (Incorporation)
Act, No. 6 of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are  members of  the
“Rahula College, Matara Past Pupils Association
(Colombo Branch)”  (hereinafter referred to as the
“Association”) and shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of  the “Rahula College,
Matara Past Pupils Association (Colombo Branch)”   and by
that name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and to alter the  same at its
pleasure.
2—PL 006460—3,190  (12/2011)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Rahula
College, Matara
Past Pupils
Association
(Colombo
Branch).

<!-- page 3 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote educational, cultural and social
activities among past pupils, present pupils, present
teachers and former teachers of Rahula College;
(b) to provide, develop and maintain physical resources
and other infrastructure facilities for the benefit of
the students of Rahula College;
(c) to promote welfare, cultural, and social
development activities in order to improve cordial
relationship with the past pupils and the teachers of
the Rahula College;
(d) to establish a Trust called the “Rahula College
Trust”, to award scholarships and prizes to the
students of Rahula College who have excelled in
their studies and other activities and to provide
assistance to needy students to enable them to attain
the necessary standards;
(e) to establish and maintain libraries, research and
training centres;
(f) to maintain a cordial relationship with foreign and
local non governmental organizations for the
purpose of providing Vocational training to students
of Rahula College; and
(g) to commence  income generating projects for various
activities of the Corporation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 6, be
administered by a Executive Committee(hereinafter referred
to as the “Committee”) consisting of the President, Vice
Presidents and other office bearers elected or appointed in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
3
(2) The first Committee shall consist of the members
of the Board of Management of the Association holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written Law, the Corporation  shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to:—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable property for
the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Coporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations, and bequests in cash or in
kind;
(d) invest its funds, and to maintain current, deposit
and savings accounts in any bank;
(e) borrow or invest money for the purposes of the
Corporation in such manner and upon such security
as the Corporation may think fit; and
(f) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
4
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law on all or any of the
following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or  expulsion of members;
(b) the election of  office-bearers, the resignation from
or vacation of, or removal from office of, office
bearers and their powers and duties and functions;
(c) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be observed or the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and the
Committee, the time, places, notices and agenda of
such meetings and the quorum therefore and the
conduct of business thereat; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the custody of its funds.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like metting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, transfers, donations, subscriptions,
contributions, fees or grants or any financial investment shall
be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
Banks as may be determined by the Committee.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
5
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging its powers and functions shall be paid out of
the fund.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper  accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor appointed by the Committee.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such institute;
9. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Secretary and shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever except in the presence of the President and the
Secretary  of the Corporation or such other person duly
authorized by the Committee who shall sign their names on
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. All debts and liabilities of  the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
Seal of the
Corporation.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Association.
Audit and
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
6
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Association on that day shall be paid to the Corporation  for
the purposes of this Act.
11. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
12. The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus, profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of the
Corporation.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to acquire and hold any
property, movable or immovable which may become vested
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of  the Corporation and
subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section 6,
with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or
otherwise dispose of the same.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property, shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to association or associations having
objects, similar to the objects of the Corporation, and which
is, or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or profit, among the members. Such association or
associations shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the time of dissolution
of the Corporation .
Limitation of
liability of
Members.
Application of
Moneys and
property.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 8 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
7
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic and  of any body, politic or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Rahula College Matara Past Pupils
Association (Colombo Branch)
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2012
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION,  NO. 163,  KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.