

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2011'01'14
wxl 1688$26 - 2011 ckjdß 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'01'14
^rcfha n,hmsg m%isoaO lrk ,§'&
I jeks fldgi: (I) jeks fPoh - idudkH
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
rcfha ksfõok
 uf.a wxlh ( IR$22$07$2006'
ld¾ñl wdrdjq,a mk; 131 jeks wêldßh
131 jeks wêldßh jk ixfYdaê; ld¾ñl wdrdjq,a mkf;a 4^1&
j.ka;sh hgf;a 2009'06'05 Èke;s yd wxl 1604$30 ork Y%S
,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%fha
m%isoaO lrk ,o 2009'05'28 Èk ork ksfhda.fhka tla md¾Yajhla
jYfhka bUq,a.iafoksh" fudrf.d,a," wxl 02$52 ys fÊ' ta'
ùrr;ak uy;d yd wfkla md¾Yajh jYfhka fld<U 05" lsre<
mdr" wxl 200 ys msysá Y%S ,xld .ukd .uk uKav,h w;r
mj;akd ld¾ñl wdrdjq, fíreïlsÍfuka iu:hlg m;a lsÍu
i|yd fhduq lrk ,ÿj" fíreïlre úiska ud fj; tjd we;s
2010'12'03 Èke;s m%odkh tu mkf;a 18^1& j.ka;sh hgf;a
fuhska m%ldYhg m;a lrkq ,efí'
ù' î' mS' fla' ùrisxy"
jevn,k lïlre flduidßia ckrd,a'
2010 foieïn¾ ui 31 jeks Èk"
lïlre fomd¾;fïka;=j"
fld<U 05'
fÊ' ta' ùrr;ak
wxl 02$52"
fudr.,a,"
bUq,a.iafoKsh'
b,a¨ïldr fiajl
fíreïlrk
kvq wxlh ( ta 3288
iy
Y%S ,xld .ukd .uk uKav,h
wxl 200" lsre< mdr"
fld<U 05'
j. W;a;rldr fiajd fhdacl
m%Odkh
.re lïlre in|;d iy ñksian, wud;H w;djqo
fifkúr;ak ue;s;=ud úiska by; i|yka md¾Yjhka w;r
mj;akd ld¾ñl wdrjq, fíreï lsÍfuka iu:hlg m;a lsÍu
i|yd ,xldfõ jHjia:dms; wKmk;a j, 131 jk mßÉfÊofha
1956 m%;sfYdaê; uqøKh jk ld¾ñl wdrjq,a mkf;a 4^1& j.ka;sh
hgf;a ksfhda.hla ksl=;a lrñka t;=udf.a wxl' whs wd¾
$22$07$2006 yd 2009'05'28 Èk;a ork ,smsh u.ska fíreïlre
jYfhka ud m;a lrk ,o w;r" tlS wdrjq, iïnkaOfhka
lïlre flduidßiaf.a wxl' whs wd¾$22$07$2006 iy 2009'05'03
Èk;a ork ,smsh u.ska
by; lS ld¾ñl wdrjq,g fya;= ù mj;akd ldrKd jkqfha
iSudiys; inr.uqj nia iud.u úiska 2004'09'10 jk Èk
isg l%shd;aul jk mßÈ IV l<uKdldr Odjk ;k;=rg Wiia
lrkq ,enQ fÊ' ta' ùrr;ak uy;d 2001'12'01 Èk isg tlS
;k;=f¾ jev wdjrKh lsÍu ie,ls,a,g f.k Tyqf.a ;k;=r
2001'12'01 Èkg fmr od;ï lsÍu i|yd ysñlï ,nkafka o
1 A – G 12093 — 355 (2011/01)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
hkak yd tf,i ysñlï ,nkafka kï" Tyqg ,eìh hq;= fjk;a
iykhka l=ulao hkak olajd we;'
^02& fuu wdrjq, iïnkaOfhka fíreïlrKh úiska by;
lS md¾Yjhkaf.ka m%:u m%ldY yd fojk m%ldY ,nd.;a
w;r" fuu wdrjq, 2010'10'08 jk Èk fíreïlrKh
yuqfõ le|jQ wjia:dfõ § by; i|yka ld¾ñl wdrjq,
iu:hlg m;a lr .ekSug we;s yelshdj i<ld ne,Sfï
§ tlS wdrjq,g mdol ù we;s b,a¨ïldr fÊ' ta'
ùrr;ak hk whg j.W;a;rldr Y%S ,xld .ukd .uk
uKav,h úiska ,nd § we;s IV jk fY%aKsfha m;aùug
wod,j 2001'12'01 Èk isg 2004'12'01 Èk olajd jegqma
mßj¾:kh lsÍfuka b,a¨ïlreg fkdf.jd we;s
fõ;kh jYfhka f.úh hq;=j we;s re'3982$- l uqo,
j.W;a;rldr Y%S ,xld .ukd .uk uKav,h
b,a¨ïlre f.ùug;a tlS uqo, Ndrf.k fuu wdrjq,
iu:hlg m;a lr .ekSug;a b,a¨ïlre tlÕ nj;a
fuu fomd¾Yjh m%ldY lrñka kvq ld¾h igykg
w;aika ;nk ,o w;r fíreïlrKh úiska m%Odkh
ksl=;a l, miq m%Odkh Èkfha isg uila we;=<;
by; lS re' 3982$- l uqo, b,a¨ïlreg f.ùug;a"
j.W;a;rldr Y%S ,xld .ukd .uk uKav,h tlÕjk
,§' ta wkqj b,a¨ïlref.a kug by; lS re' 3982$-
l uqo, fjkqfjka ksl=;a l, fplam;la j.W;a;rldr
uKav,h úiska b,a¨ïlreg ,s'm' ;emE,ska heùug o
j.W;a;rldr uKav,h tlÕ ùfuka fuu wdrjq,
iu:hlg m;a lrk ,§'
^03& by; lS iu:h wkqj fuu m%Odkfha Èk isg uila
we;=,; re'3982$- l uqo,la fplam;la u.ska
j.W;a;rldr uKav,h úiska fuys b,a¨ïlreg f.úh
hq;= f,ig j.W;a;rldr Y%S ,xld .ukd .uk
uKav,hg fuhska ksfhda. lrñ'
fuu m%Odkh idOdrK iy hqla;s iy.; m%Odkhla f,i uu
i,lñ'
mS' okkaiQßh"
fíreïlre'
2010 foieïn¾ ui 03 jeks Èk"
fld<U § h'
01-647
My No: CI/1557/2003
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT  CHAPTER  131
The award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom the
Industrial Dispute which has arisen between Anthar
Viswavidyalaeeya Vurutheeya Samithi Maha Sammelanaya.
Student Affairs Division. University of Peradeniya’
Peradeniya / Inter University Services and Trade Union
Medical Faculty. University of Sri Jayawardanapura.
Gangodawila. Nugegoda / Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka
Sangamaya. Maintenance Division. University of Colombo.
Colombo 03 / Swadeena Podu Sewaka Sangamaya. University
of  Kelaniya. Kelanlya / Inter University Sub-Warden Union.
University of Moratuwa. Moratuwa / Peradeniya
Viswavidyalaeeya Lipikaru Ha Samanthara Shreni Sewa
Sangamaya. Accounts Division. University of Kelaniya,
Kelaniya of  the one part and University Grants Commission.
No. 20. Ward Place. Colombo  of the other part was referred
by order dated 16/12/2010 made under section 4 (1) of the
Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131( as amended) and
published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka extraordinary No.1361/33 dated 07/10/2004 for
settlement by arbitration is hereby published in terms of
section 18(1) of the said Act.
V . B. P. K. Weerasingha,
Acting Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour
Labour Secretariat
Colombo 05.
31st December 2010.
Between
1. Anthar Visvavidyaleeya Vurtheya Samithi
Maha Sammelanaya, Student Affairs
Division, University of Peradeniya,
Peradeniya 2. Inter University Services and
Trade Union, Medical Faculty, University
of Sri Jayawardanapura, Gangodawila,
Nugegoda. 3. Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka
Sangamaya, Maintenance Division,
University of Colombo, Colombo 03. 4.
Swadeena Podu Sevaka Sangamaya,
University of Kelaniya, Kelaniya. 5. Inter
University Sub Wardens Union, University
of Moratuwa, Moratuwa. 6. Peradeniya
Visvavidyaleeya Lipikaru Ha Samanthara
Sreni Seva Sangamaya. Accounts Division,
University of Kelaniya, Kelaniya.
of the one part
and
University Grants Commission,
No.20, Ward Place, Colombo 07
of the other part

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2011'01'14
Case No. A-3069
AW ARD
01 The Honourable Minister of Labour Relations and
Foreign Employment by virtue of the powers vested
in him by Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act,
Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon
(1956 Revised Edition) as amended by Acts Nos. 14
of 1957, 62 of 1957, 4 of 1962 and 39 of 1968 read with
Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions) Act, No 37
of 1968 appointed me as the Arbitrator by his order
dated 22
nd September 2004 and referred the dispute
between the aforesaid parties to me for settlement
by arbitration.
02. The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties
is:
“Whether the non-granting of the three (3)
increments which were extended to some
grades in the Non-Academic staff in terms of
the Circular No. 705 of 25.03.1997 and the
Circular No. 730 of 06.05.1998 issued by the
University Grants Commission based on the
B.C Perera Salary Commission Report 1995 to
other grades in the said staff is justified and if
not, to what relief they are entitled”.
03. Mr. Pradeep Silva, Attorney-at-Law appeared for the
applicant Unions while Mr. Gomin Dayasiri,
Attorney-at-Law assisted by Mrs. Manoli Jinadasa,
Attorney-at-Law appeared for the Respondent
Commission, UGC.
04. At the outset, parties agreed to confine the inquiry
to written submissions and proceeded accordingly.
Later on Applicant Unions filed an affidavit and they
fielded two witnesses as well. They were -
(a) Lionel Malwaththage, and
(b) P. Nandasiri Perera
Also, Applicants marked documents Al to A8 in their
affidavit.
Applicant Unions submitted in their written, as well as in oral
evidence that the respondent failed to remove the anomalies
emerged as a result of salary revision made by B.C Perera
Salaries Commission. Briefly applicants stated that -
– B.C. Perera Salaries Commission - 1995 has
recommended that the group which includes
Medical Laboratory Technologist (MLTs), Dental
Therapists and others be placed three incremental
steps higher on the relevant salary scale.
– Subsequently, by letter dated 18
th March, 1997
signed by Mr. B.C. Perera who was also the
Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning issued
a list comprising of 54 categories in the technical
grades who should be placed on 3 incremental steps
higher in the relevant salary scales and that the UGC
to take action accordingly.
– Then the UGC issued a Circular bearing No. 705
dated 25.03.1997 and another Circular bearing No.
730 dated 06.05.1998 as an amendment to the
Circular No. 705.
– Salary Codes of A-04(a), A-04(c), and A-04(d) and
from A-05-A-15 belong to the non-academic, non
executive grades in the University System. Technical
Grades in the system have also been assigned the
salary codes from A-05-A-9 on par with the clerical
and allied grades.
– All technical grades in the University System have
been classified under the D-Code in the Schemes of
Recruitment in which Technicians (Technical
Officers), Dental Nurses/Nurses, Pharmacists, etc.
have been classified.
– Since then representations were made by various
categories of staff requesting that said 03 increments
paid to Technical Grades be extended to them as
well. Hence, the UGC appointed a Committee in 1997
under the Chairmanship of Prof. L.L. Ratnayake to
examine the appeals made in this regards and to
make recommendations. The Committee submitted
the report in March 1999.
– Subsequent to a decision made by the Cabinet of
Ministers at its meeting held on 12.05.1999 the
Department of Management Services (DMS) with
the assistance of senior officials in the UGC and the
Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs and
Plantation Industries, looked into the salary
anomalies and payment of allowances and other
related issues in the University System, submitted
its report dated 11.08.1999 under the heading “Report
on salary Anomalies, Payment of Allowances and
other issues in the University System”. Among other
things, the dispute of 3 increments has been dealt
with by this Management Services Committee in their
Report.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
– Paragraph 4.8 of the DMS report had referred to the
recommendations of the sub-committee appointed
under the Chairmanship of Prof. Ratnayake.
However, the DMS has not accepted the
recommendation of that Sub-Committee to grant 3
increments to all and has recommended to stop
payment of 3 increments made to 57 categories until
such time those who are entitled to this payment are
properly identified.
– Accordingly on the recommendation made in the
DMS reports, the Higher Educational Institutions
were informed by Commission Circular No.750 of
27.08.1999 that 3 increments granted in terms of
Commission Circular No. 705 and 730 should not be
continued in the salary conversion as a committee
under the Chairmanship of Prof. Jiffry has been
appointed to identify the Technical grades which
are entitled to the 3 increments.
– Thereafter in October 1999 Sri Lanka Technical
Officers filed a case bearing No. C.A. 987/99 before
the Court of Appeal citing the UGC, Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning Director General
National Budget of the General Treasury as
respondents.
The said case was settled among the parties without
a determination being made by the Court.
– The Trade Unions launched a token strike on
17.07.2003 and a continuous strike from 12.08.2003
to 01.09.2003 regarding several demands.
Rectification of salary anomaly arisen as a result of
granting of 3 increments approximately to 60
categories of employees was one of their major
demands. This strike was called off on 30.08.2003
after signing an agreement between the Ministry of
Tertiary Education and Training, UGC and the Trade
Unions.
Respondent, the UGC did not place any oral
evidence, but only marked 4 documents Rl to R4, to
substantiate their positions. Initially, Respondents submitted
to Court that UGC acted purely on the recommendations of
the Salaries Commission. No weightage was given to new
facts presented by parties, while making written submissions,
as they contravened the concepts of natural justice.
A. A Misdirection
B.C. Perera Salaries Commission in determining the
salaries of University employees states as follows - vide para.
6.18
“The level of remuneration of the middle level
technical group in the present structure is lower than that of
the clerical and allied grades. In the public service, it has
been accepted that technical officers, considering the
qualifications and training required at recruitment, be placed
higher than the clerical and allied services group.” The
position .....
Having stated so, the Salaries Commission recommended a
salary structure as shown in Table 6.7 of the Report, wherein
it further stated-
“Having considered the representations made by
the technical officers, we recommend that these groups,
which include Medical Laboratory Technologists (MLTs),
Dental Therapists and others be placed three incremental
steps higher on the relevant salary scales.”
Based on the Salaries Commission recommendation, UGC
commenced implementation of the provisions of the Salaries
Commission Report. UGC issued circulars to the relevant
parties identifying the Technical personnel, per circular No.
705 of  25.03.1997 and Circular No. 730 of 06.05.1998.
Incidentally Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
writes to the Secretary, Ministry of Education and Higher
Education that grades listed in his directive of  18.03.1997 be
considered as Technical grades and be placed 3 increments
higher than the clerical and allied grades.
However, the statement as para 6.18 of Salaries Commission
Report, , quoted above has not been adequately substantiated
and lacks evidential value.
Besides, employees of the University Grants Commission, as
well as in the Universities are not Public Servants.
The observations of the Salary Commission are a
misrepresentation.
In consequence and as a result of Salary Commission
recommendation a service anomaly had emerged.
B. Findings of the Special Committee Chaired by Prof. L.L.
Ratnayake
 UGC thereafter appointed a Committee to examine the
applications made by certain categories of staff who were
denied the 3 additional increments as stipulated under Table
6.7 of the Salaries Commission Report. The Committee
comprised of following personnel-
Chairman - Prof. L.L. Ratnayake, (Dean, Faculty of
Engineering, University of Moratuwa.)

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2011'01'14
Members-
Mr. N.K. Dayaratne (Additional Commissioner-General of
Labour)
Mr. N.W.S.W.S. De Silva, (Registrar, The Open University of
Sri Lanka). Mr. M.A. Munidasa, (Additional Secretary - Human
Resources, UGc.)
Mrs. A.R. Siriwardene, Secretary to the Committee, (SAS,
Administration, UGC)
Altogether 15 Trade Unions had made written submissions.
They were -
(1) Sri Lanka Universities Technical Officers Association. (2)
Sri Lanka Visvavidyaleeya Lipikara ha Karmika Seva
Sangamaya. (3).Lanka Visvavidyalaya Eksath Sevaka
Sangamaya. (4) Anthar Visvavidyalaya Vurthiya Samithi Maha
Sammelanaya. (5) Anthar Visvavidyalaya Jathika Sewaka
Sangam Samithi Samuluwa. (6) Sri Lanka Karmika Sewa
Sangamaya. (7) Rajaye Podu Sewaka Sangmaya. (8) Jathika
Sewaka Saangamaya. (9) Anthar Viswavidayala Vidyagara
Sahayaka Bala Mandalaya (10) Sri Lanka Nidahas Sewaka
Sangamaya. (11) Inter University Sub-Wardens Union. (12)
Sri Lanka Visvavidyalaya Pusthakala Sahakara Niladaarenge
Sangamaya. (13) Union of Employees of the University of Sri
Lanka. (14) University Grants Commission Employees Union.
(15) Sri Lanka Technical Officers’ Union.
Also 16 Trade Unions had made oral submissions:
(1) Sri Lanka Universities Technical Officers Association.
(2) Sri Lanka Visva Vidyalaya Lipikaru ha Karmika Seva
Sangamaya. (3) Anthar Visvavidyalaya Jathika Sevaka Samithi
Maha Sangamaya. (4) Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya (5) Anthar
Visvavidyalaya Jathika Sevaka Sangam Samithi Samuluwa.
(6) Anthar Visvavidyalaya Sahayaka Bala Mandalaya (7) Sri
Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya. (8) Inter-University Sub-
Wardens Union. (9) Lanka Visvavidyalaya Eksath Sevaka
Sangamaya. (10) Sri Lanka Karmika Sevaka Sangamaya (11)
Rajaya Podu Sevaka Sangamaya (12) Sri Lanka Visvavidyalaya
Pusthakala Sahakara Niladaringe Sangamaya .. (13) Union of
Employees of the University of Sri Lanka. (14) University
Grants Commission Employees Union. (15) Sri Lanka
Technical Officers Union. (16) University Executive Officers
Association.
The deliberations and materials placed before the Committee
and representations made by the Trade Unions established
that-
(a) Salaries of parallel technical grades in the University
Services have not been lower than that of the
clerical and allied grades as reported in the
paragraph 6.18 at folio 68 of the Salaries
Commission Report. Therefore, issue 7(a) did not
exist in the University System and it was only a
misconception.
(b) The Committee examined the position of “MLT and
others” referred to in Table 6.7 at folio 73 of the
Salaries Commission Report and observed that
“others” referred along with MLT’s should also
possess equal or nearly equal qualification and
other service conditions. Therefore, the Committee
noted that the other Technical grades so far
identified in the University system to grant three
increments are not comparable with MLTs and
others referred to in the Salaries Commission
Report. Accordingly, the issue 7(b) is only a
misjoining. of facts in relation to University and
Public Service disregarding the reality.
(c) Any doubt regarding the interpretation given by
the Committee for the word “others” the UGC may
clarify with the relevant authorities.
Para 7(b) states - Whether the Technical Grades in
the University System referred to in under Table
6.7 at folio 73 of Salaries Commission Report is
comparable with the ML Ts and others in the Public
Service.
C. Analysis of Technical duties and functions of some
technical personnel
In view of the conflicting situation, lists of duties of those
who are said to be performing Technical functions were
examined - The following reveal that some of them, do not
perform any of the technical function and do not require any
technical knowledge or qualifications to perform their
assigned duties:-
Field Supervisors
Marking labour check roll and taking morning muster -
Assisting farm manager planning cultivation programs -
Managing labour gangs -Implementation of cultivation
programs successfully using labour Gang -Reporting to
Manager about the performance of labourers: their attitude,
punctuality, skills, leadership, commitment etc. - Care and
maintenance of equipment and tools (sprayers, Grass cutters,
chain saws and also other tools such as hoes, alavango, etc.)
used by laboures - Maintaining record: activities undertaken
by the labourers gang, performance of labourers, yield
records, other cultivation problems such as pests and
diseases, agrochemicals applied -Any other duties assigned
by the Farm Manager. Supervision of care and maintenance
of special equipment such as tractors, water pumps -
Supervision of care and maintenance of structures (plant
houses, sheds) and buildings -Assisting farm manager in
supervision of watchers and security guards-Informing farm

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
manager about any missing items or theft in the allocate units
- Assisting farm manager and technicians in conducting
training programs for undergraduate students and others -
Informing farm manager about the progress of the units and
labour allocated - Attending training programs.
Farm Supervisor (Lower Grade & Higher Grade)
Supervising the farm cultivation - Supervising the farm harvest
- Supervising the staff who work at the farm - Ensuring the
staff who work at the farm -Ensuring the fertilizers to the
plants at the farm - Ensuring the water facilities -
Responsibility for the farm product sale- Other related work
on request of  Dean / Agriculture and Head/Crop Science
fmd;a n¢kakd ^uqøKd,& my< fY%aKsh
mqia;ld, mdGlhskag mßyrKh lsÍu i|yd fN!;sl jYfhka
kqiqÿiq ;;a;ajfha mj;akd fmd;a kej; ne£u fyda w¿;ajeähd
lsÍu -- fï i|yd udislj ,nd fok bkafvkaÜ ,ehsia;= j,g
wod, fmd;aj, ne÷ï lghq;= $ w¿;ajeähd lsÍï yd .s,aäka
lghq;= ksu fldg wod, Èkhg ,nd §u -- iq¿ mßudKfhka
ne£ï lghq;= ksu lsÍug we;s fmd;a $ jdr iÕrd w¿;a jeähd
lsÍu -- kj m%fõYhka ,nd .ekSfï§ idudkH uÜgfuka ne|
ksu fldg we;s fmd;a" mqia;ld,fha§ §¾> ld,Sk mßyrKh
i|yd iqÿiq jk whqßka >k neïfuka ne| ksu lsÍu -- úYaj
úoHd,fha úNd. m%Yak m;% ,nd fok Wmfoia u; ne| ksu
lsÍu -- mqia;ld, wxYfhys udisl $ ff;%udisl $ jd¾Isl jdr
iÕrd ,nd fok Wmfoia mßÈ LdKav jYfhka neo .s,avka
lghq;= ksu lsÍu -- by; i|yka rdcldß lghq;= j,g mßndysrj
mqia;ld,hdêldÍ úiska Tn fj; mjrk fmd;a ne£fï wxYhg
wod, ish¿u rdcldß lghq;= --
fidaÿm;a lshjkakd
fmd;a l¾;D $ .Kqfokqlref.ka ,eî mß.Kl .; lrk ,o
uqøK wekjqfï uq,a msgm;g yd jevmf;ys i|yka úia;r wkqj
ksjerÈ oehs ne,Su" tkï uQ,sl m%udKh" ie,iqu wl=re j¾. $
wl=re m%udKh" Ñ;% fh§u ta ta wod, uqøK jevh wkqj ;sfíoehs
ne,Su' ^.Kqfokqlref.a woyi $ o, igyk ms<sn| wjfndaOh&
-- wk;=rej msgm;g wod, isxy, $ bx.%sis fou< wlaIr úkHdih"
jpk fh§u" jHjydrh .e,mSu ksjerÈ oehs fidhd ne,Su'
^NdIdj ms<sn| mßk; oekqu& -- cd;Hka;r ms<s.;a fidaÿm;a
,l=Kq lrk l%u wkqj tajd ksjerÈj i,l=Kq lrñka fidaÿm;a
lshùu' ^fidaÿ m;a ,l=Kq lsÍfï NdIdj ms<sn| oekqu& -- ish¿u
NdId ksjerÈ lsÍï j,§ ms,s.;a Yío fldaI" jHdlrK kS;sß;s
nqoaêu;=kaf.a u;h wkqj lghq;=  lsÍu' ^f;dr;=re $w¾: ms<sn|
úYajfldaI $ YíofldaI" jHdlrK fmd;m; ms<sn| mßph& --
uQ,sl udOH iïm%odhka rlsñka rfÜ idudkH kS;sh W,a,x>kh
lrk yd my;a yeÕSï wjqiaik oE bj;a lr oeóu' ^Y%S ,xldfõ
udOH iodpdrh ms<sn| wjfndaOh& -- nqoaêuh foam, mk;"
m%ldYk kS;s Í;s" cd;sl f,aLkdrlaIl wKmk;a yd kS;sÍ;s
lv fkdjk mßÈ ;sfíoehs ne,Su' ^Y%S ,xldfõ uqøs; udOH
kS;sÍ;s oekqu& -- uqøs; mß.Kl fidaÿm;a yd uqøKh hka;%
fidaÿm;a hk wxYj,§ ta wjYH;d wkqj lghq;= lsÍu'  ^fmr
uqøK wxYfha isg miq uqøK wxYh olajd idudkH oekqu& --
iEu úgu uqøK ;;a;ajh Wiia lsÍug fhdackd bÈßm;a lsÍu
yd wvqmdvq ms<sn|j mÍlaIdldÍ ùu' -- hï wmeyeÈ,s wjia:djl§
jevmf;ys igyka ms<sn|j .eg¿jl§ fl,skau uqøKd,hdê
m;sf.ka úuiSu'
uqøKd, iyhl
uqøKd,fha ffoksl ldâm;a ^Daily Work Norm Card& u.ska
,efnk jev úia;r f.dKqlr ffoksl jd¾;d ilia lr
uqøKd,hdêm;s u.ska f,aLldêldß" uQ,Hdêldß" kS$Wml=,m;s"
wOHlaIl - fufyhqï fj; heùu ;=,ska uqøKd,fha jev
iïnkaO Èkm;d jd¾;dj u.ska ^Daily Report& by, mßmd,kh
oekqj;a lsÍu -- uqøK wxYhkag ,efnk wekjqï weia;fïka;=
lsÍu yd ksuùfuka miq msßjeh .Kkh lr uqo,a wNHka;r
ú.Kk $ mSGdêm;sjrekag $ f,aLdldêldß $ ks' Wml=,m;s
heùug udisl msßjeh jd¾;dj ^Monthly Cost  Report& ieliSu'
-- uqøKd,fha tÈfkod iemhSï wLkavj ,nd§ug iq¿ uqo,a
^Petty Cash Book& w.%suh mj;ajdf.k hdu' -- hka;% j, kv;a;=
fiajd $ l%shdúrys; ùï iïnkaOj wod, ksfhdað; wdh;k
iu. idlÉPd lsÍu' yels blaukska ld¾ñlfhl= f.kajd .ekSu
fyda úYd, w¿;ajeähd i|yd ñ, .Kka f.kajd .ekSu -- ks;r
by, hk uqøK wuqøjH úhoï wkqj Costing System tl
hdj;ald,Sk lsÍu -- re' 50"000$- g wvq hka;% w¿;ajeähdj
i|yd ñ, .Kka 3 la le|jd fcHIaG iyldr uQ,HdêldÍ
^uqøKd,h& wkque;sfhka bgqlrjd .ekSu' -- uqøKd, ksIamdok
wuqøjH úhoï" w;sld,  úhoï ms<sn|j udisl jd¾;dj ms<sfh,
lsÍu ;=,ska ffoksl úhoï ms<sn|j uqøKd,hdêm;s oekqj;a
lsÍu' -- weia;fïka;= lsÍfï§ msßjeh ms<sn| wod, mSG oekqj;alr
wjYH jqjfyd;a úhoï wvq lsÍug lghq;= lsÍu' -- CERC
jHdmD;sh hgf;a bgq lrk ish¨u uqøK jev j, ñ, .Kka
ieliSu" ,sms .Kqfokq lsÍï yd úia;r ,ndf.k fcHIaG iyldr
uQ,Hdêldß ^uqøKd,h& u.ska wkque;sh f.k Wml=,m;s;=ñhf.a
wkque;shg Director / CERC yryd heùu' -- lE,s l%uhg f.ùfï
ldâm;a mÍlaId lsÍu yd tys ksrjoH;djh fidhd n,d f.ùug
iQodkï lsÍu yd wod, úia;r f,aLk .; lsÍu' -- ish¨u fmr
uqøK" uqøK yd miq uqøK wxYj,g f.dia ksIamdok ;;a;ajh"
wvqmdvq fidhd ne,Su yd hka;% j, ;;a;ajh oek .ekSu -- jev
ms<sn|j ffoksl jev ñkqï jd¾;dj ms<sfh, lsÍfï§ isÿjk
wvqmdvq j, ksrjoH;djh fidhd n,d uqøKd,hdêm;s;=udg
jd¾;d lsÍu' -- uqøKd,hdêm;s mjrk úfYaI rdcldß lghq;=
j, fh§u'
D. Absence of Technical qualiafications, no bar for entry
‘Furthermore at the level of recruitment to various categories
of employments, minimum qualifications have been stipulated
by the UGC which are enumerated herein :–
Foreman Machine/Composing/ Binding).,
For internal Applicants .
University employees With at Least ten years experience

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h -  2011'01'14
in the relveant branch of a university press Viz machine
minding, composing or binding. Note: preference will
be given to charge hands of the University press, and
those with experience in the distribution or press work
and Labour supervision.
For external applicants
(1) G .C.E. (Ord. Level) exam in six subjects at not less
than two sitting and atleast ten years experience in
the relevant branch of a printing press Viz. machine
minding composing or binding
Book Binder (Press)
(a) G .C.E. (Ord. Level) exam in six subjects at not less
than two sittings with Sinhala Tamil / English
language or Literature and Arithmetic/ Commercial
Arithmetic / Mathematics and who have been
successfully followed a course in binding in a
recognized institute with not less than eight years
experience in a relevant field in a large printing
establishment or
(b) Pass in 8
th standard or higher examination with not
less than 12 years experience in a relevant field in a
large printing establishment.
Besides, effective 1
st January, 1988, Government established
a Sri Lanka Printing Service - vide Gazette Extraordinary No.
486/7 of 28 December 1987 covering all categories and grades
of employees involved in Printing work at the Government
Press, which deals mainly printing of publications and
exclusively the printing of Govt. Gazettes, legal documents,
all govt. publications and notifications including
Parliamentary proceedings. Inter alia - the particular gazette
notification states that -
- The grading of the staff into different categories and
the salary with incremental scales attached to the posts;
- Cadre requirements and absorptions;
- Recruitment procedure and conditions of recruitment;
- Determination of seniority and efficiency bars;
- Pension Rights, etc.
Most importantly, the Gazette notification specifies the
educational and other qualifications required for various
classes of employments. In particular, for the following,
positions, no technical subjects are required at entry level
and thereafter.viz -They are - Proof Readers, Computerized
Typesetting cum Editing, Lino and Mono operators, Ludlow
Operators, Compositors, and Binders
From above it is seen that no technical qualifications
whatsoever are demanded for several such categories, at the
time of recruitment and grading them into the technical
categories is without substance.
E. Dividing Line separating technical and non-technical
From the in-depth investigations, I have found that there are
a vast number of employees in the University employments
particularly (a) holding technical positions who had not
passed any technical subjects at the recruitment, and (b)
holding non-technical positions who had passed technical
subjects.
In the circumstances, it is crystal clear that several lapses
had occurred and it is difficult to draw a line separating the
two - technical and others. There are hundreds of employees
falling under these two categories. A question may be asked,
if an employee with no technical qualifications could perform
a technical assignment, then why this disparity. Is it the
qualification or the job that should be the deciding factor?
F. Implied terms of employment contract
With the introduction of the new salary scheme, the technical
grades were granted 3 additional increments, placed above
the clerical and allied categories, although some of them
strictly speaking were not entitled to. However once granted,
employees continue to enjoy such benefits and the new terms
becomes IMPLIED TERMS OF THEIR EMPLOYMENT
CONTRACT, and the legal protection afforded to them are
under Sec. 70 of the Shop and Office Employees Act and Sec.
62 of the Wages Board Ordinance, which states as follows:-
Sec. 70 of the Shop and Office Employees Act
“(1) The Provision of this Act shall be in addition to and not
in substitution for or derogation of the
provision of any other written law relating to the carrying on
of any trade or business, or the employment of any person in
any trade or business; and nothing in this Act shall be deemed
or construed to permit the carrying on of any position or
trade or the employment of any person in contravention of
any position of any such other law.
(2) Where any person employed in a shop or office was
immediately prior to the appointed date entitled or becomes
entitled on or after that date under or by virtue of any other
law or under any contract, agreement, award or —, to any
right, or privileges more favourable than those to which he
would be entitled under this, nothing in this Act shall be
deemed or constrained in any way to authorize or permit the
employer to withhold, restrict or terminate such rights or

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'01'14
privileges.
(3) Any contract or agreement, whether make before or after
the appointed dated, whereby any right conferred on may
employee by or under this Act is in any way affected or
modified to this detriment or whereby any liability imposed
on any employer by or under this Act is in anyway removed
or reduced, shall be null and void in so far as it purports to
affect or modify any such right or to remove or reduce any
such liability.”
Sec. 62 - Wages Board Ordinance
“Any contract or agreement, whether made before or after
the date on which this Ordinance comes into operation
whereby any right of any worker by or under this Ordinance
is in any way affected or modified to his detriment or whereby
any liability of any employer is in any way removed or
reduced, shall be null and void in so far it purports to affect or
modify any such right or to remove or reduce any such liability. ”
G .  Effect of the unified Management Assistants Service
Government abolished the General Clerical Service, the Typists
Service, the Stenographer’s Service, the Book Keepers
Service, Shroffs Service and the Store Keepers Service and
formulated a unified ‘Management Assistants Service’ This
unified service came into effect from 1 st January 2004 and
the formula for absorption is contained in the Gazette
notification bearing No. 1372/23 of 24
th December 2004.
UGC and the Universities have continuously followed the
rules and regulations of the State Sector and it is opportune
to incorporate the clerical and allied grades, presently existing
under the University administration and in lieu establish a
Mid-Management grade.
H. Objectives of a Salaries Commission
A salaries Commission should take a fair, reasonable and
practical view in fixing salaries and maintain a reasonable
relativity in the salaries of different grades keeping in mind
the qualifications, skills, intelligence, experience and ability
required for the various classes and the nature of their duties
and responsibilities.
In the final analysis based on the aforesaid observations
and findings, I am satisfied that applicant Unions claim is
reasonable. Therefore, the respondent University Grants
Commission shall implement the following course of action -
1. those in the clerical and above grades to be absorbed
into a Management Assistant grade in line with the
Public Administration Circular, of 30.12.2004 which
explains the contents of the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1372/23 of 24.12.2004.
2. the Management Assistants grade (A9 and above,
covering non-executives) be merged with the existing
Technical grade, - thereby ensuring equal status,
while removing the disparities. The new grade to be
termed Management cum Technical grade.
3. Arrears of salaries due to be computed and paid
within 45 days of publication of the Award in the
Govt. Gazette. Also this award to be effective from
the date of reference of this dispute, i.e. 22.09.2004.
This is just and an equitable award.
P. N
A V ARATNE,
Arbitrator.
16th December, 2010
01-646
Y%S ,xld rcfha uqøK fomd¾;fïka;=fõ uqøKh lrk ,§'