

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
¡â¨ 1902/39 – 2015 fmnrjdß 18 Éæ¾ø nodod – 2015.02.18
No. 1902/39 – WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY  18, 2015
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A – G 21040– 09 (2015/ 02)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No. : CI / 1805.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Brown & Company PLC,  Browns Group Industries (Private) Limited and Browns Thermal
Engineering (Private) Limited, No. 481, T. B. Jayah Mawatha, Colombo 10  of the one part and The Samastha Lanka Welanda Ha Karmika
Kamkaru Sangamaya (All Ceylon Commercial & Industrial Workers' Union), No. 457, Union Place, Colombo 02 of the other part on 20th day
of  December, 2013 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of
Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
HERATH YAPA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
22nd January, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 01 of 2014
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made on this Twentieth day of December Two Thousand and Thirteen to take effect from the First day
of June  2013, pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between Messrs. BROWN & COMPANY PLC, BROWNS GROUP INDUSTRIES
(PRIVATE) LIMITED AND BROWNS THERMAL ENGINEERING (PRIVATE) LIMITED Companies duly registered in Sri Lanka,
under the Companies Ordinance and having their registered offices at No. 481, T. B. Jayah  Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as
“the Employer”) of the One Part and, THE SAMASTHA LANKA WELANDA HA  KARMIKA KAMKARU SANGAMAYA (ALL
CEYLON COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WORKERS' UNION), a Trade Union duly registered and, having its registered office at
No. 457, Union Place, Colombo 2, (a member of the Ceylon Federation of Labour and hereinafter referred to as “the Union’’) of the Other Part.
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED
THEREWITH
1. Employers Covered and  Bound. - Brown & Company PLC, Browns Group Industries (Private) Limited and Browns Thermal
Engineering (Private) Limited, hereinafter sometimes referred to as "the Employer".
2. Employees Covered and Bound .– This Agreement shall cover and bind the members of the Union who are employed by the
employer in Manual and Lobouring capacity in classes of employees enumerated in the Second  Schedule hereto and who are employed on
monthly contracts of employment and who at the time of signing of this Agreement are in the employment of the Employer.
3. Earlier Collective Agreements .– The provisions of this agreement shall supersede and replace the provisions of whatever other
earlier Collective Agreements signed between parties to this Agreement and any such agreements shall stand terminated from the First day of
June, 2013.
4. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement wich shall be effective as from the First day of June, 2013, and thereafter
continue in force unless it is determined otherwise by either party giving three  month’s notice in writing to the other, subject to the following
proviso :
That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the First day of  March Two Thousand and Fifteen
and  such notice shall not expire before the Thirty First day of May Two Thousand and Fifteen.
5. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–  During the continuance in force of this agreement the terms and conditions
of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between an Employer bound by this agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by the agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date thereof or which
shall  come into being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
6. Probation.– Every employee recruited by an employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months, provided
however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the employer is not satisfied with the progress of such employee , the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the employer shall indicate to the employee in
writing the reason why the probationary period has been extended. During the period of probation or extended probation an employer shall
have the right to terminate the services of the employee without notice. If the employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service
during the period of probation or extended probation and has not been confirmed by  employer, he shall be deemed to be confirmed with effect
from the day after the day on which the period of probation as the case may be ended.
7. Attendance. –
(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every day (other
than a holiday) at the usual starting time and shall there remain available for work throughout the normal working hours.
(2) If at a store, factory, mill or job work is temporarily not available for an employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
8. Hours of Work.–  The hours of work in the Company shall be those customarily worked out but liable to change by the Employer
subject to exigencies of business.
9. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer an Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
10. Overtime.–
(i) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall constitute
neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(ii) Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and a half (11/2) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 18(a) hereof.
11. Weekly Holiday.– 
(i)  In respect of each week each Employee shall be allowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday.
provided however, that if any Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's
wage in respect of this weekly holiday for that week in accordance with the provisions of clause 18 (b) hereof.
(ii) In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include -
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of clause 13 thereof and;
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
(iii) An Employee may be called upon to work on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(a) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and his
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of clause 18(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee
within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month an Employer may with the consent of the Employee–
(i) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid,
pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 18(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate
holiday, or
(ii) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s
wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(b) In respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–
(i) One and a half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 (b)
hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and
(ii) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 18 (a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
12. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for
the Engineering Trade.
13. Public Holidays.–
(i) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the decisions of the Wages Board for the Engineering
Trade, Provided however, that an Employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance with the decisions of
theWages Board for the Engineering Trade.
(ii) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible with the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day
either in the Six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall
be granted to the employee as a weekly holiday.
(iii) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Saturday the
number of hours constituting the normal working day (inclusive of one hour for a meal) on the day immediately
preceding such public holiday shall be six and a half (6 1/ 2) hours.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
14. Casual Leave.–
(i) In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment  he shall be
entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill  health if that Employee’s entitlement
to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the period or an
aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be liable to pay
such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken  at any one time. Provided
further that an employee shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave immediately preceding or immediately following any
period  of annual holidays. Provided further that  in respect of any employee’s first year of employment including any
period of probation he shall be entitled to Casual Leave  for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete
period of two months’ service.
(ii) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where  an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to
the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant
Casual Leave.
15. Sick Leave.– In any year an Employee shall be entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding twenty one (21) days provided that.
(i) His illness is supported by a certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer); and
(ii) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of clause 6 hereof. Provided however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to Sick Leave not exceeding ten (10) days  if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and Sick Leave not
exceeding five (5) days  if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’ probation.
16. Monthly Consolidated Wages.–
(1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 hereof, as from the First day of December 2013 each employee shall be paid and
subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly consolidated wage on the basis of the salary scales of
consolidated wages set out in Schedule 2 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set  out in  Schedule 2 hereto include all the allowances hithereto incorporated in the wages
of the employees.
(3) This Agreement  shall not have the effect of changing the annual incremental date of an Employee.
(4) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka –
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging
the Employers to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law
and in terms of such written law;
(b) Recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of
whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by the Agreement.
17. Wage Revision.– For the purpose of ascertaining the wage an employee shall receive with effect from 1st June 2013 on the basis
of the scales set out in Schedule 2 hereto, the following provisions will apply-
(a) Every Employee shall receive a wage increase of 10% based on the basic salary (as at May 2013) with effect from 1st June
2013. Thereafter, a sum of Rs.750/- will be consolidated in to the wage with effect from 1st June 2013 and the employee
will be placed on the respective salary scales set out in Schedule 2 hereto at a point corresponding in rupee value to his new
salary or at the next higher point on the scale.
(b) With effect from 1st June 2014, a further salary  increase of 10% will be granted to every employee based on the basic salary
as at May 2014.  Thereafter, a sum of Rs.750/- will be consolidated into the wage with effect from 1st June 2014 and the
employee will be placed on the respective salary scales set out in Schedule 2 hereto at a point corresponding in rupee value
to his new salary or at the next higher point on the scale.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(c) An employee who joins the services after the signing of this Agreement will be placed on the salary scales set out in
Schedule 2 hereto.
18. Wages for Periods Less Than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
19. Annual Lump sum payment in lieu of Non - Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity.–
 (1) A lump sum payment on an ex - gratia basis would be made to the employees for whom provision has been made in the salary
scales set out in Schedule 2 hereto.
(a) A sum of Rs. 12,500/- shall be paid in the month of December 2013.
(b) A sum of Rs. 12,500/- shall be paid in the month of December 2014.
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on this ex gratia payments.
20. Provident Fund.–
(i) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident
Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Employee’s Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980 where the Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee’s
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
21. Terminal Benefits.–
(1) The Employer will subject as hereinafter provided pay terminal benefits to employees in accordance with the scheme of
terminal benefits set out in this clause.
(2) The scheme shall apply to every employee in the services of the employer at the time of signing of this Agreement or who
joins the service of the employer on any day thereafter, so long as this Agreement continues in force.
(3) As and by way of terminal benefits the employer shall pay an employee a sum equivalent to one month's wages for each year
of service less the employer's contribution to the Provident Fund and Trust Funds but excluding interest thereon.
(4) The wage on which the said terminal benefits under sub - clause 3 hereof shall be payable will be the last monthly wage
receivable by an employee on which Provident Fund is payable and shall not include any non-recurring cost of living
gratutity.
(5) For the purpose of calculating terminal benefits under this clause an year of service shall be a period of not less than six
months.
(6) The terminal benefits provided for in this clause shall be payable to on employee an the cessation of his services arising from
death or any other case whatsoever. Provided however, that if at the date of cessation of an employee's service there is due
to his employer from the employee any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation or any other account and the same
cannot be recovered from the amount in the employee's credit in the Provident Fund,  the same shall be recovered from the
terminal benefits provided for herein.
(7) The provisions of this clause shall not apply to employers who operate a more favourable scheme of terminal benefits.
(8) On the death of an employee whilst in service and is eligible to receive terminal benefits under this clause, the employer shall
pay such terminal benefits in the manner and to the persons hereinafter set forth-

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(a) If there is a valid nomination in force for the purpose of the deceased Employee's Provident Fund at the date of his
death, to the nominee or nominees of such employee in conformity with the form of nomination where such nominee
is surviving and of full age.
(b) Where there is no valid nomination or in the event of the nominee or any or more of the nominees having pre- deceased
the employee, or in the event of the nominee being a minor at the time that the payment of the terminal benefits become
due, the employer shall make payment only after the person or persons entitled to the payment have established their
claim in law and furnished proof thereof.
(9) In the event of any written law providing for the payment of gratuity or terminal benefits the more favourable scheme shall
apply but not both.
(10) No employee shall be entitled to any gratuity or terminal benefits in addition to the terminal benefits provided for in thi s
clause or by any written law as the case may be.
22. Bonus.–
(1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payments in the
past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, each Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay
to each of his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year
immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus to an
amount less than the sum of money paid to each of his employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing
of this Agreement, the employees may canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer concerned. If the Union is not
satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the Employers Federation of Ceylon
(hereinafter called the ''Federation"). If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same
shall be referred to a committee of three persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘‘Bonus Committee’’) which shall be
constituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-clause (2) for settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner of Labour will
constitute a Bonus Committee which will consist of three senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10) years’ post
qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner of Labour to the Employer, the Employees and the Federation. Thereupon the
Commissioner of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee so constituted a statement
of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute as the
reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner of Labour the
Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of the bonus
was not justified and to what extent, if any, the bonus shall be reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate the
decision in writing to the Federation, the employees and the Commissioner of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus
Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute and the employees or any one
or more of them and/or its or their members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or
otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is divided by its decision
then the decision of the Commissioner of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute and
the Commissioner’s decision shall be communicated in writing by the Commissioner of Labour to the Federation and the
employees and/ or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during
the continuance in force of this Agreement.
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year an Employer should pay his
Employee a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus in the year immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement.
(5) The fees payable to the members of each Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner of Labour.
(6) The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of this Agreement  shall be in the sole discretion of each Employer and shall not be called in question by the
Employees nor shall any Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka will
nominate these chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
(9) Any dispute relating to the payment of bonus shall be resolved only in terms of provisions 1 to 8 above and no other
provision in this Agreement shall be applicable.
23. Annual Increments.– The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule
hereto shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctu ality or
disciplinary action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –
(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) Stopped, the loss of increment will only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) Susupended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
accrue to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in
writing of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which
in the circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
24. Carrying Out Employers' Instructions as to Duties.-
(i) If an employee considers that any duty which he is required to perform by the employer does not fall within the scope of
his employment under the employer, the employee shall be entitled to bring such matter to the notice of the employer. If
notwithstanding such notification the employer requires the employee to carry out such instructions then the employee
shall be entitled to request the employer to give him instructions in writing.
(ii) If the employer gives the employee such instructions in writing, the employee shall carry out the same but without
prejudice to the right of the employee to dispute such matter with the employer thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
(iii) If the employer refuses to give such instructions in writing, the employee shall be entitled to refuse to carry out such
instructions and in that event the employer shall have no right of action against the employee.
(iv) If the employer gives such instructions in writing, but the employee fails to carry out the same, the employer shall be entitled
to suspend the employee immediately without pay and to take disciplinary action against him without prejudice to the right of
the employee to dispute such suspension or such disciplinary action as may be taken against the employee as provided in this
Agreement.
25. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the employer, an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the employee by a
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the employee. If the employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
employee orally by the employer in the presence of two witnesses.
26. Suspension.–
(i)  An employee may be suspended without pay by his employer –
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal,
(b) In order to avoid a breach of peace or damage to the property or disturbance of the business of the employer,
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding Seven (7) working days after due inquiry.
(ii)  At the time of suspension under Sub-clause (1) (a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof the employer shall provide the
employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons  or charges in terms of Clause 26 hereof.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
27. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an employee then-
(i) Irrespective of whether an employee has been suspended under clause 26 hereof or not, the employee  shall be furnished
with a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such
employee and such show cause notice which shall give the employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which
to give the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(ii)  Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the
employer the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such employee. Provided however, that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable the employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an employee to the employer, the
employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(iii)  If the employer is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee shall if he is under
suspension forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
(iv) If the employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within a reasonable period
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(v) After holding such inquiry, the employer shall notify the employee of the findings of each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and not inference adverse to the employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(vi) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that -
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of clause 26(1) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespective of
such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges in
the show cause notice.
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, then the employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee’s
suspension and accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges, in the show cause notice against the employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other
authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore, referred to the Police or other
authorities or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employee, the matter had
been previously referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances, the employee may remain suspended
without pay.
(d) If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make an order under
paragraphs (a) to (c), of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee’s own seeking
within thirty (30) working days from the date of the employee’s suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half his
normal remuneration for the period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration
for the period of suspension in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the employer makes and order under
paragraphs (a) to (c) of the preceding Sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(e) In any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of sub-clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the employee unless he is prevented
from so doing by reason of the employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is
agreed between the  Federation  and any of the Employees that in the circumstances of the case, the period of ninety
(90) days be extended for such further time as may be agreed.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(f) The employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in Sub-clause (iv) and (v) hereof where the
employer proposes to warn the employee or  where the employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however,
that if the Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the employee by the employer and requests the
holding of an inquiry the employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an
inquiry shall then apply.
28. Retirement.– On reaching the age of Fifty five (55) years an employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
employer and there shall be no obligation on the employer to give the employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
employee who has retired may, in the discretion of his employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as may
be mutually agreed.
29. Termination of Service.–
(1) Every contract, whether oral or written for the hire of any employee by the employer except for work usually performed by
the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of Clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise expressly
stipulated) be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one (1) month and to be
renewable, from month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s notice be
given by either party to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or on the failure of the employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.
30. Union Recognition.–  The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members who is employed in any
workplace of the employer. In regard to issues of general application or the effect of principles such as matters affecting general terms and
conditions of employment either in the work place or the trade as a whole the following provisions shall apply:
(1) When the Union is representative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of the employees whose membership subscrip-
tions is not in arrears the employer will recognise that Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and negotiate
with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of such
employers the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with all the
Unions competent to make general demands by virtue of the requesite membership and not seperately with each such
Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of employees in the service of the
employer in Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer, the Union is competent to
make general claims or raise general matters the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by the
Department of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the employer and that Union and the Parties
thereto.
31. Disputes Procedure. -
(i) In the first instance, the employees shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer and give the
Employer at least ten (10) working days time whithin which to reply. If in the employee’s opinion the employer’s reply is
unsatisfactory the employees and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(ii) When the employees concludes that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive it shall ask the Department of
Labour to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange conferences and/ or discussions
with a view to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of labour shall then proceed until
the Department of labour reports failure.

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(iii) Subject to the provisions of Clause 33 hereof all disputes between the Employees and employer shall be settled in
accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, and the regulations made thereunder.
(iv) Any party of this Agreement shall not instigate support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
32. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt With.  - Any anomaly arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between representatives of the Federation and the Union. If the matter cannot
be settled by negotiation the matter shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations
thereunder.
33. Trade Union Action. - The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of
trade union action against the employer in respect of any dispute between the employer on the one hand and the union and/ or its members and/
or its employees covered and bound by this Agreement on the other hand whether or not such dispute is related this Agreement except where
such dispute has been caused by an act of an employer, which in the opinion of the controlling body  (by whatsoever name called) of the Union
is mala fide  or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence of the legitimate activities of that Union and/ or its members or
is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/ or its members. Provided however, that at least (07) days notice in
writing shall be given by the Union to the employer concern, the federation and the Commissioner of labour before the date of commencement
of any intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent to an act of an employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by
whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine its members of is grossly unfair or
seriously detrimental to the interest of the Union and/ or its members.
34. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment, Benefits. -
(i) The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the
Employer that during the continuance in force of this agreement they will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement
or all or any of the benifits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement other than by
mutual Agreement.
(ii) The Federation and the Employers bound by this Agreement jointly and severally agree with the Union and its members
and the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or
any of the terms, benifits or conditions presently enjoyed by the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, other
than by mutual agreement.
PART II
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.- If in the opinion of the Federation the Union commits a breach of any of the terms of this
Collective Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted by the
Federation in the succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Federations right to restore such
facilities and concessions, upon such terms and conditions as the Federation may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries.- If an Employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 27, the following provisions
shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice.
(a) The Employer will, subject to hereinafter provided, allow another employee (hereinafter referred to as an “Observer”) to be
present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
(b) If the Employee who is served with a show cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the Inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any question which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not be
entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings threat, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.- The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the Union-
(a) In respect of each meeting which the Union desires to hold at the Employer’s permises, an application for permission shall be
previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or more of the under noted
conditions :-
(i) That no person other than an employee in the service of the employer shall be present at a meeting of the Union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual  General Meeting of the Union, the office bearers of the parent Union may with the
previous approval of the Employer, attend.
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office bearers to ensure that the terms  on which permissions to hold a meeting of such
Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its office bears to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in connection with,
a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s permises  and the Union shall
indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave. -
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :-
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer to refuse to grant permission if, in its discretion, the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two Office Bearers of  the Union :-
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour, in connection with a dispute between such Union and the Employer,  or
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Court, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer will in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration, to an employee to attend a Trade Union Course or Seminar
or Conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad, unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual, customary or statutory
holidays which he wishes to utilise for the purpose.
5. Check Off. -
(1) In this clause the ''Employer" shall mean an Employer bound by this Collective Agreement in whose establishment the
membership of the Union is not less than forty percentum (40%) of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall, on the written request of an employee, deduct from the wages due to such employee the current monthly
Union, dues as are specified by the employee, to be payable monthly by the employee to such Union and remit the amount so
deducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.
(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form set
out in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to as an “Authorization” as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check off at any time by signing a statement to that effect in the
form set out in form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a “Revocation” as set out in the Second Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
(5) As far as practicable, deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorizations shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation canceling such
authorization.  Provided however -
(a) That an Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with Sub - clause (5) or (6) ;
(b) That, at his discretion, an Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check off in any month in which
the deduction by way of check off will together with all other deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month
exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the employees
in the month immediately preceding to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each Authorization by a
cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed “Account Payee”.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned, by post, in a pre-paid envelope, addressed to
the Treasurer of the Union Concerned at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union concerned shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as aforesaid, any sum other than the Union
dues actually deducted.
PART III
DEFINITIONS
In Parts I and II of the Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set
opposite to them.
Words M eaning
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employer (For convenience sometimes referred An employer covered and bound by this Agreement
as to ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Employee (For convenience sometimes referred Employee bound by this Agreement
to as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment
Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of Consolidated wage in the Third
schedule hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday Night  and midnight on the
Succeeding Saturday night.
Year A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.

<!-- page 13 -->

13 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
In witness whereof the parties aforesaid have hereunto set their hands At Colombo On this Twentieth  day of DecemberTwo
Thousand and Thirteen

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
FORM NO. 1
Name of Employer:
 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by this Collective Agreement affecting employees employed in the ..................................... Trade
bearing No. ........................... and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check off contained in the Collective Agreement of which I am
eligible as a member of the ................................... Union, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees … ……………
(Rs.  ...............) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit the same to the said Union on my behalf.
The first payment should please be made from my wages next due immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
…………………………………………………
(Full name of Employee)
Received on ………………………………………………………………
             (To be filled by the Employer)
FORM NO. 2
Name of Employer:
 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
...........................................Union with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
………………………………………………………………………
(Full name of Employee)
Received on : …………………………………………………………………
             (To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 15 -->

15 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
SCHEDULE  I
WORKING  HOURS
Brown and Company PLC 8.30 a.m. - 5.00 p.m. with a lunch break
General and Group Facilities from 12.30 p.m. to 1.30 p.m.
Brown and Company PLC 8.30 a.m. - 5.15 p.m. with a lunch break
Agriculture Division from 12.30 p.m. to 1.00 p.m.
Brown and Company PLC 8.30 a.m. - 5.15 p.m. with a lunch break
Battery Division from 12.30 p.m. to 1.00 p.m.
Browns Group Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 8.15 a.m. - 5.15 p.m. with a lunch break
from 12.30 p.m. to 1.00 p.m.
Browns Thermal Engineering (Pvt) Ltd. 8.15 a.m. - 5.15 p.m. with a lunch break
from 12.30 p.m. to 1.00 p.m.
Reporting time for all Drivers, Manual Workers and Office Minor Staff in all Companies will be 8.00 a.m. - 5.30 p.m. with a lunch break
and two tea breaks as is in force.

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
SCHEDULE  II

<!-- page 17 -->

17 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015


<!-- page 18 -->

18 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2015.02.18
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.02.2015
03 - 85
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA