

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2360$21 - 2023 fkdjeïn¾ ui 27 jeks i÷od - 2023.11.27
No. 2360/21  -  MoNday,   NoveMber  27,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 40866 - 26 (11/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
l.d-b. 6/2023
POISON,  OPIum  AND DANGEROuS  DRuGS  ORDINANCE  (ChAPTER 218)
reGulatioNs made by the Minister of Justice, Prison affairs and Constitutional reforms under section 80 of the Poison, 
opium and dangerous drugs ordinance (Chapter 218) read with subsection (6) of section 77a of that act.     
                   
  dr. Wijeyadasa Rajapakshe, PC,
 Minister of Justice, Prison affairs and 
 Constitutional reforms.
Colombo,
23rd November, 2023.
Regulations
 1. these regulations may be cited as the Poison, opium and dangerous drugs (disposal of court productions) regulations 
of 2023.
 2. the registrar of the relevant Magistrate’s court or a competent court shall for the purposes of these regulations prepare 
monthly reports containing the following:-
 (a) Cases in respect of which the report of the Government analyst is received in terms of subsection (2) of section 
77a of the ordinance;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2023
2a
 (b) Cases in respect of which the report of the Government analyst is not received in terms of subsection (2) of 
section 77a  of the ordinance;
 (c) Cases in respect of which the Police Narcotics bureau or the person authorized by the relevant Magistrate or 
the judge of the competent court (hereinafter referred to as the “ authorized person”) has sought any orders to 
dispose of any drug, substance, article or preparation in terms of subsection (5) of section 77a  of the ordinance 
(hereinafter referred to as the “disposal order”);
 (d) Cases in respect of which the Police Narcotics bureau or the authorized person has not sought any disposal 
order in terms of subsection (5) of section 77a  of the ordinance;
 (e) Cases in respect of which disposal orders have been issued by the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the 
competent court, as the case may be, in terms of paragraph (a) of subsection (5) of section 77a  of the ordinance;
 (f) Cases in respect of which disposal orders have not been issued by the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the 
competent court, as the case may be, in terms of paragraph (a) of subsection (5) of section 77a  of the ordinance 
and reasons therefor;
 (g) Cases in respect of which disposal orders issued by the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court 
have been executed in terms of subsection (5) of section 77a  of the ordinance;
 (h) Cases in respect of which disposal orders issued by the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court 
have not been executed in terms of subsection (5) of section 77a  of the ordinance and reasons therefore; and
 (i)  any other information which the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court may require the registrar 
to be submitted for the purposes of these regulations.
 3. the registrar of the relevant court shall submit the monthly report referred to in regulation 2 to the relevant Magistrate 
or the judge of the competent court within the first week of every month.
 4. (1) the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court shall, within a period of seven days from the date 
of receipt of such monthly report, make appropriate orders in respect thereof.
  (2) any order to destroy any drug, substance, article or preparation (hereinafter referred to as the “production”) 
under this regulation shall be in conformity with the specifications for disposal specified in the First Schedule.
 5. subject to the provisions of regulation 6, the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court shall make an 
order to destroy any production in terms of subsection (5) of section 77A of the Ordinance, after being satisfied that –
 (a) any objection to the destruction of any such production by –
 (i) the prosecuting counsel or the police officer conducting the prosecution or his representative;
 (ii) the defence counsel or his representative;
 (iii) the suspect,
 has been considered or that no objection has been raised by any such person and that the order would not be 
contrary to the ends of justice.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2023
3a
 (b)  the photographs and the necessary evidence including the packages and seals of the production are in compliance 
with the provisions of the ordinance.
 (c) the necessary evidence including the packages, and seals relating to the production are preserved and protected 
enabling the same to be presented as evidence during the proceedings of such court.
 6. the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court shall, after obtaining observations from the attorney-
General and the relevant police officer who has submitted the production to the Government Analyst for examination, 
have the power to release appropriate amounts of such production ordered to be destroyed for any investigation, 
training, research and preparation of medicinal drugs, if necessary:
 Provided however, the production released in terms of this regulation –
 (a) shall not in any event exceed the weight required for such investigation, training, research and preparation of 
medicinal drugs; and
 (b) shall be a drug, substance, article or preparation that can be obtained and possessed under the authority of a 
licence issued in that behalf:
   Provided further, any production which cannot be obtained or possessed under the authority of a licence issued under 
any written law, shall be only released subject to appropriate conditions issued by the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the 
competent court who releases such production for investigation, training and research.
 7. the Police Narcotics bureau or the authorized person, as the case may be, shall destroy or cause to be destroyed such 
production under the supervision of the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the relevant court, as the case may be, and  
report to such court of such destruction.
 8. upon the Magistrate or the judge of the competent court making an order to release the production or destroys the 
production or any part thereof, the Police Narcotics Bureau or the authorized person shall –
 (a) seek a suitable date and time from the Magistrate or the judge of the competent court to carry out the activities 
specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of sub-section (5) of section 77a; and
 (b) inform the Government analyst to be present at destruction site:
Provided however, where disposal weight of any form of drug, substance, article or preparation of Morphine, 
Heroin, Cocaine, Methamphetamine and Cannabis and plant based drugs, or the disposal of any form of drug, substance, 
article or preparation of other synthetic or semisynthetic dangerous drugs specified in Part I and II of Schedule II of 
the Ordinance exceeds 1000g, an officer of the National Dangerous Drug Control Board authorized by such Board 
shall be present at the destruction site.
 (c) ensure that the necessary security and transportation of such production (if necessary) are arranged;
 (d) certify the accuracy of the Productions inventory;
 (e) take necessary photographs of the packages and seals and other evidence and return the same to the court 
production clerk;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2023
4a
 (f) permit the National dangerous drug Control board to obtain a sample of such productions  the weight of which 
is not exceeding 1g for scientific research and mapping; and 
 (g) transfer the product to suitable disposable containers and seal the same in preparation for disposal in Keeping 
with the order issued by the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court.
 9.  (1) on the destruction or release of the production, as the case may be, following the court order, the police Narcotics 
Bureau or the authorized person shall submit a certificate of destruction or release, as the case may be, to the 
relevant court in the format specified in the Second Schedule.
  (2) The certificate of destruction or release, as the case may be, shall be prepared in such number of copies as may 
be required, and signed by all the parties present at the destruction or release.
  (3) The original of such certificate shall be filed in the relevant court, and –
 (a) in the case of disposal of the production, the balance number of copies of such certificate shall be sent to 
the Police Narcotics bureau or the authorized person, as the case may be, the National dangerous drug 
Control board and the Government analyst’s department; and
 (b) in the case of release of any product, a copy of such certificate shall be sent to the person authorized by 
the order issued by the court to collect the released narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and controlled 
substances.
 10. For the purpose of these regulations, the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court shall have regard to 
the possibility of disposal of any production soon after the Government analyst has examined such production:
   Provided that, if there is a specific requirement to preserve such production until the end of the relevant trial or the 
court decides to preserve the production until the end of the trial due to exceptional circumstances, the Magistrate or the 
judge of the competent court shall record such requirement or circumstances.
 11. For the effective and efficient coordination of the measures specified in these regulations, the relevant court, Police 
Narcotics Bureau, the Government Analyst Department and the National Dangerous Drug Control Board shall –
 (a) appoint a focal point to whom all correspondence relating to these regulations shall be addressed;
 (b) maintain and follow up on the correspondence; and
 (c) use in correspondence, the specialized Government email address or a secured email address.
 12. For the purposes of these regulations –
“competent court” means the court which has the jurisdiction to try an offence committed under Chapter v  of 
the Poisons, opium and dangerous drugs ordinance (Chapter 218);
“disposal site” means the court premises, a cultivation land, crematorium or the incineration facility of the National 
dangerous drugs Control board at which the court productions are to be destroyed;
“National dangerous drugs Control b oard” means the National dangerous drug Control b oard established under 
the National dangerous drug Control board act, No. 11 of 1984; and
“ordinance” means the Poisons, opium and dangerous drugs ordinance (Chapter 218)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2023
5a
 Regulation 4
FIrST SCheDule
SPeCifiCation  for  D iSPoSal
morphine/ heroin/Cocaine
Disposal Weight Method
below 1000g 1. High temperature (Min. 800 0C- Max. 1100 0C) incineration
2. burning in a crematorium at high temperature (Min. 800 0C).
3. Dissolved in boiled water and flushed to a suitable sewage system.
above 1000g High temperature (Min. 800 0C- Max.1100 0C) incineration
Note:
•	 Pre-Treatment process - Dissolve and mix the drug thoroughly with boiling water in a metal or plastic barrel or drum, 
until no sediments are present.
•	 Once	the	mixed	solution	is	transferred	into	the	sewage	system,	the	same	must	be	flushed	with	high-pressure	water.
•	 The dissolution process must be repeated for the remaining residuals with boiled water in the barrel or drum.
methamphetamine
Disposal Weight Method
below 1000g 1. High temperature (Min. 800 0C- Max. 1100 0C) incineration
2. burning in a crematorium at high temperature (Min. 800 0C).
above 1000g High temperature (Min. 800 0C- Max.1100 0C) incineration
Note:
•	 Pre-Treatment process - Dissolve and mix the drug thoroughly with normal water in a metal or plastic barrel, until no 
sediments are present.
•	 Wearing	advanced	safety	wears	at	the	site	is	recommended.
Cannabis
Disposal Weight Method
N/a 1. High temperature (Min. 800 0C- Max. 1100 0C) incineration
2. open air burning
Note:
•	 Use a mental barrel (200 litres) or open pits or trenches (no more than 12 cubic meters) for burning drug materials.
•	 Keep all personnel upwind from fumes.
•	 It is recommended that,
 ◦ Maximum weight of 100kg per day by considering the long-term environmental issues.
 ◦ To grind the drug materials and mix them with at least an equal amount (1:1 ratio) of combustible other waste 
materials (e.g. cardboard, paper, dried food waste, yard waste, vegetable-based oils or grease) and/or mixed with 
more	flammable	liquids	(or	other	fuels	such	as	kerosene	or	diesel)	before	burning	to	ensure	complete	combustion.
 ◦ In the selection of the site consider the following:-

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2023
6a
 ▪ Minimum 500m away from human habitation, waterways, wells, electrical lines, forested and food growing/
producing/gazing area.
 ▪ Elevate	and	remote	flat	terrain,	away	from	waterways	and	hard	surfaces.
Oher Synthetic or semisynthetic drugs
Disposal Weight Method
Max: 50 Kg per Hour High temperature (Min. 800 0C- Max.1100 0C) incineration
Other plant-based drugs
Disposal Weight Method
N/a 1. High temperature (Min. 800 0C- Max.1100 0C) incineration
2. open air burning
Note:
•	 Use a mental barrel (200 litres) or open pits or trenches (no more than 12 cubic meters) for burning drug materials.
•	 Keep all personnel upwind from fumes.
•	 It is recommended that,
 ◦ Maximum weight of 100kg per day by considering the long-term environmental issues.
 ◦ To grind the drug materials and mix them with at least an equal amount (1:1 ratio) of combustible other waste 
materials (e.g. cardboard, paper, dried food waste, yard waste, vegetable-based oils or grease) and/or mixed with 
more	flammable	liquids	(or	other	fuels	such	as	kerosene	or	diesel)	before	burning	to	ensure	complete	combustion.
 ◦ In the selection of the site consider the following:-
 ▪ Minimum 500m away from human habitation, waterways, wells, electrical lines, forested and food growing/
producing/gazing area.
▪	 Elevate	and	remote	flat	terrain,	away	from	waterways	and	hard	surfaces.
seCoNd sCHedule
 Regulation 9
Certificate of Destruction/release
This is to certify that the following narcotics drugs, psychotropic substances, and controlled substances, were destroyed 
or released.
 1. Case No.:
 2. t ype of narcotics drugs, psychotropic substances, and controlled substances:
 3. the gross weight of the drugs produced at the court:
 4. Net wight of the narcotics drugs, psychotropic substances, and controlled substances destroyed/ released (after 
taking samples, etc .):
 5. Correctness of the description confirmed: Yes/ No
 6. disposal/ release site:
 7. Method of disposal/ release:
 8. date:
 9. started time:
 10. end t ime:

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.11.2023
7a
Details of the Officer Authorized by the court
signature
Name 
designation
In witness that the disposal/release of the aforesaid narcotics drugs, psychotropic substances, and controlled substances 
was disposed of /relesed at the aforementioned site as described.
 1. signature and Name of the relevant Magistrate or the judge of the competent court supervising
 2. signature (s) and Name(s) of the Government analyst or his representatives
 3. signature (s) and Name(s) of the representatives of the National dangerous drugs Control board.
 4. signature (s) and Name(s) of the authorized person
 5. Signature (s) and Name(s) of the authorized officer collected the released narcotice drugs, psychotropic substances, 
and controlled substances, in case of a release
eoG 11 - 0316 
PrinteD at tHe DeP artMent  of GoVernMent  PrintinG,  Sri lanKa.