

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2395
wxl 1"842 - 2013 foieïn¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'12'20
No. 1,842 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 20, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  10th January, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th
December,  2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
By-Laws ... 2396
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2395
N.B.— Part I:III of the Gazette No. 1,841 of 13.12.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2396
By-Laws
WELIGEPOLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
BY - LAWS
IT is here by notified that by viture of power vested in terms of sub
section 1 of section 2 of the Provincil Councial (concequntial
provisions) Act, No.12 of 1989 
, I Maheepala Herath ,Ministry of
Locial Government ,approve the by law on Limitation of weight
and running speed of vehicle and formalization of running vehicles
within the jurisdiction of the Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha adopted
by the Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha on 31.10.2012 in terms of sub
section 126 which should be read along with sub section 01 and
section 122 of Pradesiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987 and that this by
law will be enforced since the date of its publication of this notice
in the Gazette.
M
AHEEPALA HERATH,
Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
At the Chief Minister’s Office,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
By - Law of Limitation of Weight and Speed of vehicles
01. This By Law is named as the law of limitation of weight
and speed of vehicles.
02. The objective of this by law is to formalize transportation
of heavy vehicles and making limitations of driving speed and
imposing limitations of weight minimizing the damage to the roads
in the Weligepola Pradesiya Sabha and not belonging to any other
authorities and located within the jurisdiction of the Pradesiya
Sabha.
03.  This by law is in operation since the date of its publication
in the Gazette.
04. (a) Here in after running a tipper a lorry a tractor or a
road constructing machine with a weight exeeding 2
tons should not be done on the roads meant in the
secound by law without bearing a licence obtained
after paying charges mentioned in the first schedule
issued by the chairman of the pradesiya sabha and
pulling or towing logs and other material on such a
road should not be done by means of animals or tractor.
(b) The power of amending the charges mentioned in the
first schedule of this by law if necessary or from time
to time, lies in the Weligepola Pradesiya Sabha.
(c) Running of any vehicle without air fressyre tyres
should not be done unless loaded in another vehicle
on any road belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha should
not the done.
05.  The maximum running speed of a vehicle on a road belonging
to Pradesiya Sabha should not exeed 25 kilo meters per hour.
06. In an instance where no provisions have been made by any
sub law by the Pradeshiya Sabha the vehicles should not be the
stationed in the places mentioned in the 2
nd schedule of this on the
days and times also mentioned in the same schedule.
07. (a) If any individual transports any building material,
agricultural product timber or machinery equipment
through a road which depicts from the second by law of
this by law a written request should be forwarded to the
chairman of the sabha at least prior to three days.
(b) On receipt of such a request according to by law under 7.1
a report should be called by the chairman through a
technical officer or any other officer authorized by the
chairman and a deposit of money as a security should be
obtained sufficient for the amount of damage to be made.
(c) After levying charges for a deposit of security and due
charges the permission should not be granted without
coming at an agreement.
(d) In case of a request made to release the security at least
10% of the department fees and subsequently its loss in
case of any damage should be levied after assessment.
(e) If the damage exceeds the deposit of security it is lawful
to order the relavant individual to pay that extra money
too.And on an occasion where such payment is evaded
when it is orderd to pay the Pradesiya Sabha has the
authority to levy such charges by suing at a court of
judicial power.
(f) In an instance where it is decided by the chairman that
following procedures of by law of 7.5 above are
unjustifiable the chairman is empowered to donate some
relief, subject to approval of the general meeting.
8. The contractors who have come to agreemant with the
Pradesiya Sabha relavant to developmantstasks can get exempted
from the charges mentioned in the first schedule here by making
written request forwarded to the chairman.
09. It is lawful for the chairman of secretary or any other person
authorized by the chairman of the Pradesiya Sabha to examine all
permits issued under this by law.
10. Every contravention of by law is an offence and when any
individual is found guilty for an offence at a court of judicial power
he/she is liable for a fine orderd under section 122(2) of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and if he/she continued to do
that contravention even after handing him/her over a written notice
by the chairman or secretary or any other officer outhorized by the
chairman paying attention to it he/she in liable for a fine for days
the crime has been committed as indicated in section 122(2) of the
Pradeshia Sabha Act, No 15 of 1987.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2397
11. In case of any complexity of a definition of any law of this
by law the sinhala copy of this should alwas the empowered.
12. For the purpose of this by law Weligepola Pradesiya Sabha
is meant by Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman of the Weligepola Pradeshiya
Saba is meant by the Chairman, Secretary, of the Weligepola
Pradeshiya Sabha is meant by the secretary ,any other officer of the
Sabha a Gramaniladhari,or and a police officer is meant any other
officer.
SCHEDULE  01
01. Transportation of sand soil or other minerals
(a) The non refundable deposit of money is Rs.1,000 for
transportation by heavy vehicle of the weight of 1 cubes
to two cubs per one turn. Permit charge for one turn is
Rs.l 00.
(b) Non refundable deposit of money for transportation by
heavy vehicle weighing 2 cubs to 4 cubes for one turn is
Rs.1,000 Permit charge for one turn in Rs . 200.
(c) Non refundable deposit of money for transportation by
heavy vehicle more than 4 cubes is Rs. 1,000/, Permit
charge for every exeeding cube in Rs. 10
02. Transportation of firewood, bamboos, and timber logs.
,
(a) Non refundable deposit of money for atractor for one
turn is Rs. 1000 Permit charge for one turn is Rs. 200
(b)  Non refundable deposit of money to a lorry, tiper or
truck is Rs. 1,000 per one turn.Permit charge is Rs. 300.
(c) Non refundable deposit of money for construting or any
other vehicle (Non chain loader) is Rs. 1,000 Permit charge
for a day is Rs. 1,000.
03. Transportation of Agricultral Material
(a) Non refundable deposit of money for daily transpotation
by lorry/tipper or truck of one ton or a portion of it per
one turn or transportation of over 05 days a month is
Rs. 1,000  Permit charge per one turn is Rs. 50 or if it
exeeds 10 days a month Rs. 500
(b) Non refundable deposit of money for daily transportation
by lorry ,tipper with the weight of 02 tons or
transportation of over 05 days a month is Rs. 1,000
permit charge is Rs. 75 or far a tansportation of over 10
days a month is Rs. 750
SCHEDULE  02
Non Stationary Places and Time of Vehicles
(01) Near Opanayaka R/ Vidyakara Isuru Vidyalaya
• All five days of the week from 6.00 am to 2.00 pm.
(02) Near W eligepola R/Walagamba Madya Maha Vidyalaya
• All five days of the week from 6.00 am to 2.00 pm
(03) Within the limit of the fair of the days of halding the
Weligepola weekly fair
 • from 6.00 am to 2.00 pm
(4) within the limit of the fair on the days of holding the
Opanayaka weekly fair.
• From 6.00 am to 2.00 pm.
12-803
WELIGEPOLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By - laws
IN terms of the powers vested by me under secton 123 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, as the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government, I hereby declare that I have approved the
following by-law imposed by the Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha of
the administrative Jurisdiction of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
by virtue of the powers vested in it under Section 122 and 126 of
Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
M
AHEEPALA HERATH,
Minister in charge of the
 subject of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
By-Laws on Regulation of Establishing Places to Park
Vehicles within the limits of Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha
and Charging Fees from Vehicles
1. These By-laws shall be known as the By-laws on regulation
of establishing places to park vehicles within the limits of Weligepola
Pradeshiya Sabha, charging fees for parking and controlling of vehicle
parking.
2. A notice should be exhibited in a public place by the
Chairman of the Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha hereinafter referred
to as the Chairman, regarding the place of parking, prohibited or
limited parking or places reserved for parking in a street or part of
a street. Parking should not be done other than a place allowed by
the council.
3. No person shall park a motor car, motor lorry, Bus, Motor
Cycle, Three-wheeler or any other vehicle other than in a general
park.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2398
4. No person shall park a Motor car, Motor lorry, Bus,
Motor Cycle, Three-wheeler or any other vehicle in a general park
unless the owner or driver of the vehicle possess a valid pass issued
by the Sabha .
5.  Every pass is issued daily on hourly basis or monthly basis
on request to the Weligepola Pradesiya Sabha. Every such pass
should be taken by paying the daily or monthly fee mentioned in
the schedule 2 and 3 according to the necessity.
6. One very pass issued under by law No. 04 regarding a motor
car, a lorry, a bus, a motor bike, a three wheeler, or any other motor
vehicle, the recognition number of motor vehicle should be clearly
mentioned and valid only for the period mentioned on the pass.
7. According to the by law No. 04, at any time and any occasion
when the driver or vehicle owner is asked to produce the pass by a
police man, vehicle controller, or a person who has been authorized
and appointed by the sabha for that purpose, should produce the
relevant pass for the inspection which has been issued for a car, a
lorry, a bus, a motor bike, a three wheeler, or any other motor
vehicle that has been parked within a public parking place.
8. In a situation ,when a public vehicle park has limited to a
particular type of class of vehicles the other type of vehicles which
are not in the above mentioned vehicle class are not allowed to be
parked at that public parking place.
9. It is prohibited parking a car, a lorry, a bus, a motor bike, a
three wheeler, or any other motor vehicle in a public parking place
making troubles to other vehicles which enter to and exit from the
park.
10.  It is prohibited washing a car, a lorry, a bus, a motor bike,
a three wheeler, or any other motor vehicle while they are parked in
a public parking place.
11. No one is allowed to:
(a) Repair a car, a lorry, a bus, a motor bike, a three wheeler,
or any other motor vehicle which is in a public parking
place if it is not a compulsory for the purpose of
taking out from the park.
(b) According to the given permission in the chapter 10
(a), it is advised that not to make any unreasonable
harmful noises when doing that type to repair.
12. Improper behaviors and doing harmful things within the
public parking place are strictly prohibited for any person.
13. Incorporated or unincorporated bodies are allowed to
obtain monthly pass from the sabha for their cars, lorries, buses,
motor bikes, three wheelers, or any other motor vehicles by paying
relevant charges for the sabha office. (Vehicles of Government
Ministries and Departments are exempted from these particulars).
14. The due charges should be paid to the sabha by and
incorporated or non incorporated board of persons for their motor
cars, motor vehicle, boxes lorries, buses, motor bikes, three wheelers
or any other motor vehicles belonging to those incorporated or non
incorporated board of persons.(vehicles of Government ,Ministries,
and Departments are exempted from these regulations)
15. (a)  This by law should be effective from the date on which
it is published the  Gazette.
(b) This by laws will be operative and effective from 6.00
am to 6.00 pm on each day.
16. If any specific persons or specific class or peoples have
been given a specific order or written order by the sabha, they will
be exempted from parking charges for their motor cars, motor
vehicle, boxes lorries, buses, motor bikes, three wheelers or any
other motor vehicles.
17. Breaking all or any term of this by law will be an offence and
has to pay a fine not more than Rs.750 to the court and if the same
person continuous the same guilt/fault should have to pay an extra
fine not more than Rs.250 daily on which the fault is done, after a
written notice which is with the chairman’s reference.
18. In this by laws, Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha refers as
“sabha”, and chairman of Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha / special
commissioner/authorized officer refers as “Chairman”
“Lorry” implies a motor vehicle or a vehicle which has been
built with a special purpose of delivering goods, but vehicles which
are used within a farm do not fall in to this category.
“Motor car” implies a motor vehicle, but not a motor bike,
ambulance, hearse, or a vehicle with a separate trailer which carries
chinless/week persons with their luggage including not more than 8
persons with driver.
“Motor vehicle box” means a vehicle. It is neither a ambulance
nor hearse. This has been manufactured with a separate trailer for
the purpose of transport not less than 8 passengers including driver
and their luggage.
“Bike” is a motor vehicle which has been produce with more
than three wheels. Bike’s weight and the weight and the weight of
the car which has been attached by the side weight altogether not
more than 5 motor’s weight.
Motor Vehicle means:
(a) Any vehicle mechanically forward and backward operated,
tractor with a trailer or vehicles that are used for road
development activities and approved/permitted by the
registrar motor vehicle plantation roller machines are not
included in this category.
or
(b)  Any vehicle mechanically forward and backward operated
and approved / permitted by the registrar motor vehicle
using in the agriculture sector for farm uses or leveling the

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2399
ground for building constructions, removing mud & sand
in the depth of rivers and canals, pulling and loading soil
or using similar activities as above. Plantation roller
machines that are used on the roads are not included in
this category.
“Bus” is a motor vehicle box. This has been registered as a
Bus and used for transporting passengers.
“Stopping” means holding or discontinuing a motor vehicle
in a particular place for a particular reason / matter, but
not for the purpose of loading passengers or luggage.
“Police officer” means a person who is engaging the police
service and wearing a Police Uniform.
 and
“V ehicle Controller” means a man or woman has been
appointed and authorized by the Chairman of the sabha
in order to control the vehicles which are parked in the
public parking places designed by Pradeshiya Sabha.
19. In this by law, it is notified that at any circumstances
where there is miss matching / asymmetries in the English or Tamil
transcripts, the Sinhala transcript will be immediately applicable
and concerned.
20. A committee can be appointed by the pradeshiya sahbha
in order to control three where societies.
Officially the Chairman and the Secretary of this society will
be the chairman and the secretary of the sabha respectively. The
other officials and members of this society comprise of 3 members
of the sabha, officer in charge police in the area of authority or his
representative an officer in charge of vehicles, and the officer of the
sabha who is responsible for this subject.
S
UB SECTION   - 01
FORMAL  PLACES  FOR  VEHICLE  PARKING
OP ANAYAKA DIVISIONAL SECRETARIAT DIVISION
THREE WHEELER PARK
Badulla - Colombo  Main Road
1. Kendaketiya junction ,near the bus stop - ( Left side)
2. Temple junction - Madola- (Left side)
3. Helapalla turn junction - (Left side)
4. Horankandura junction, near the Bus Stop - (Left side)
5. Udawela,Akrarella road - (Left side)
6. Karagahayata junction- (Left side)
7. Galhira junction - (Right side)
8. Boogaha junction, near the Wallaketiya road - (Left
side)
9. Vijayarama Temple junction,Opanayaka - (Left side)
10. In front the fare at Opanayaka - (Right side)
11. Near the clock ower at Opanayka - (Left side)
12. Under the Boo Tree at Delgas junction - (Left side)
13. Delgas junction where turn to the Hattella road - (Left
side)
14. Near the Daandawa Bridge - (Left side)
15. In front the rubber factory at Hunuwala junction - (Left
side
16. Polbokka junction near the Hunuwala bridge - (Left
side)
17. Left side of the Hallinna junction
18. Amuwatta junction - (Left side)
19. Near the rubber factory at Hunuwala-
Hunuwala - Millakade road
20. Near the Matihakwala School
21. Near the Hunuwala Hospital
Delgas junction - Batadura road
23. Hattella road at Hattela junction
24. Batadura junction
Udawela- Ranwala road
25. Akarella road Paragahamaditta junction
26. Akarella road Udawela junctions
Lorry/Van/School Transport Vehicle
01. Vehicle Park in front of the seedbed at Delgas junction
02. Vehicle park near the Boodhiya at Delgaslaga.
03. Opanayeke School Vehicle park near the handloom center.
04. Vehicle park in front the bus stop at Hallinna junction
05. Vehicle parkat Opanayaka People’s Bank
06. Left side Vehicle Park from the Midelladeniya road junction
at Opanayake.
WELIGEPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA  DIVISION  THREE
WHEELER P ARK
Balangoda - Pallebedda road
1. Sandaganagama junction
2. Koongasthenna junction
3. Near the Panana Bus Stop
4. Pollamura junction
5. Infrount of the Weligepola Hospital
6. near the Udeni Weerasekara Mawatha at Weligepola.
7. In front of the Sarath Store at Weligepola.
8. In front of the Bank of Ceylon at Weligepola.
9. Medaganoya junction.
10. Kularatna Village junction

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2400
11. Hanwana junction
12. Junction near the Kajuwatta.(Akkara goda)
13. 25 Acres junction (Ambewila)
14. Ambewila junction
15. Magayaya junction (In front of the Cooperative)
15. Near the Kalatuwawa kanda brige
16. near the Buluwela Boodhiya.
17. Mahaomara junction
. 19. near tht Ranwala Hospital.
20. Thennahena junction
21. Near the Ranwala temple
22. Sandanagama junctions
23. Dewala Kanda junction (Udaranwala)
Pollamura- Kapugala Road
24. Yatipasgamuwa road at Weligepola near the Sandagiriya
bus stop.
Weligepola-Yatipasgamuwa road
25. Yatipasgamuwa junction
Yatipasgamuwa
Weligepola-Muththettupola road
26. Hewandeniya junction
 27. Hatangala temple junction
Galpaya  road
28. Muththettupola temple junction
29. Kokwalayaya junction
, 30. Infrount the galpaya fare
31. Near the Galpaya school.
32. Bambaragala junction at galpaya
 33. Kolonngas yaya junction
34. Thelambugaha Athura Aduwa Kade Junction
Ambewila Road
35. Welagepola junction.
Lorry /Van/School Transport Vehicle
Weligepola town
01. Vehicle park near the transformer.
02. Toward the Kottimulwala from Weligepola town at Kottimulwala road .
Paragahamadiththa - Koongasthenna Road
01. Near the Meddekanda road in Ilukkubura.
02. Near the Panana bus stop
SUB-SECTION 02
Charges for Charges for every extra 1/2 Charges for every 1/2 hour
1st hour or hour which exceeds 1 st hour which exceeds 4 th hour or
part of it and not 4 th hour or part of it part of it
Rs. Cents Rs. Cent Rs. Cents
(a) Motor bike N/A N/A N/A
(b) Motor vehicle / 2.00 1.00 1.00
motor coach /
three wheeler
(c) Tractor with a trailer/ 3.00 1.50 1.50
Lorry
(d) Tractor without a trailer/ 2.00 1.00 1.00
any other vehicle
(e) Bus 3.00 2.00 2.00

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2401
SUB SECTION -  03
Monthly Charges     Rs. Cents
1. Three wheeler per month 100.00
2. Car or Van per month 150 .00
3. (1) Large Lorry per month 200.00
4. (2) Small Lorry per month 150.00
5. (3) Tractor - with or without trailer per month 75 .00
6. Bus per month 300. 00
12-804
WELIGEPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-Laws
IN terms of the powers vested by me under Secton 123 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local
Govenment, I hereby declare that I have approved the following by-law imposed by the Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha of the administrative
Jurisdiction of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council by virtue of the powers vested in it under Secitons 122 and 126 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act
No. 15 of 1987.
MAHEEPALA HERATH,
Minister in-charge of the Subject of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
WELIGEPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Amendment  By Law on Water Supplies
As per the powers bestowed on the Minister of Local Government under Section 2 of the Local Government Institutions (Standard B y
lLws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 established and published in Section IV B of the Extraordinary Gazette No. 520/07 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka on the 23.08. 1988, read and approved by the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council at its meeting held on 16. 08. 1990
and published by Section IV B of the Gazette No. 642/10 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and published in Section  IV
B of the gazette No. 642/1 0 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 27. 12. 1990 accepted and published by the Weligepola
Pradeshiya Sabha in section IV B of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 28th of June 1991.
It is hereby notified that the forms A & B of the ninth by law of the series of by laws from No. 01 to 42 were nullified and instead
the following amended forms were adopted by the Pradeshiya Sabha at its meeting held on 31. 10. 2012 under the Decision No. 6.1. (iii)
have been adopted by me Maheepala Herath, Minister of Local Government as per the Section 123 (i) of the Local Government Act o f
No. 15 of 1987 which should be read along with Section 03 of the Provincial Council (Consequential Provisions) Act and that the  said
amendments will be in force within the jurisdiction of the Weligepola Pradeshiya Sabha since the date of publication of this Gazette
notification.
MAHEEPALA HERATH ,
Minister of Local Government
Sabaragamuwa Province
Chief Minister’s office
Sabaragamuwa Province Provincial Council.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2402
WELIGEPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA  (Water Works Section)
.A Form’(9th By Law)
1. (i) Full Name of applicant:........................................................................................
(Clearly in Sinhala)       Rev./Mr./Mrs/Miss.
(ii) Name with Initials :
(In English block letters) Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss :
(iii) National Identity Card No . :
.
2  Address of the place where water
 connection is needed :
(Clearly in Sinhala)
(i) House No. :
Bypath:
Rural/Main Road
Town :
District :
Divisional Secretariat :
(iii) Grama Niladhari Division :
3 (i) Address of correspondence :
(ii) T elephone No. (House):
4 Whether the applicant is the owner/tax payer/tenant in that place:
5 Revenue certificate/Grama Niladhari Certificate of living/deeds forwarded. (Delete irrelevant words)
6 (i) The bank nominated for consumer purposes:
(ii)  Account No:
7  (i) whether any water connections taken before :
(ii) If so .type
(Domestic / State/ Business / Religious) .
8 Whether the place you apply for water supply is coverd by a hydro
scheme done by community based organization
9  Make a sketch of the road accessible to the place relevant full details for easy accessibility:
10 If there is a water connection inthe name of the resident :————————.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2403
Having read and well understood the relevant conditions and instructions for a connection of water to the place mentioned in th e
application; I do hereby certify that all the particulars furnished in the application, are true and well understand that the W eligepola
Pradeshiya Sabha has the power to disconnect in the event of furnishing false particulars.
...............................................
Signature of applicant
For Office use
1. Date of issue of application :
2. Registration No.:
1. Technical Officer’s report: ………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………..
..
2 Description of water connection given :
(i) Type (Domestic / State / Business/ Religious
3 Type of the meter : 6  Meter No. :
4 Size of the meter : 7  Date of water supply :
5. Reading on the date of
water supply
..........................................
Signature of Chairman
(Approved / Not approved)
If not approved give reasons:………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………
Date :……………………………
Clerk Notes:
Money deposited :
Receipt No. and the date :
Reference to water and section :
Technical Officer’s report on the completion  of  work :
Date : ……………………………
……………………………
Signature of Technical Officer.
.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'20
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.12.2013
2404
WELIGEPOLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
C  —  Form (42 nd by  Bylaw)
1. THE agreement for the water supply for domestic purposes / non domestic purposes between…………………………………
Owner / Resident of the place revenue number ……………………………. Situated in …………………………… as first
the party (hereafter mentioned to be the owner and the Pradeshiya Sabha as the other party.
2. Conditions for the water service to the above place for non domestic purposes.
(a) …………………………….…………………………….
(b)…………………………….…………………………….
(c)…………………………….…………………………….
The owner / Resident agrees to - abide by the conditions mentioned here after.
(a) Water shoule be supplied through a meter of inches ……………………
(b) A payment of the sum of rupees …………………………….…………as meter  charges, service charges and security
money should be made to the chairman of the Pradesiya Sabha prior to the service supply.
(c) The charges ordered by the Sabha according to the quantity of water supplied during each month should be paid and
arrangement should be made to pay.
(3) Unless the charges for meters or water are paid to the chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha within 15 days from the due date. Th e
use of such services is barred and can be terminated by the Pradesiya Sabha.
(4) The agreement can be terminated by giving a notification of such intention prior to 30 days by either side to the other side . On
such termination there is no right for the owner or resident to use such services until a new agreement is made.
(5) A due acknowledgement should be made by the owner in case of any liability for a change of the resident and any resident is not
liable to use the services until an agreement is made through a written document accepting the above conditions.
Signed onday of ………………………….………… month 201 ………………… .
………………………….………… ………………………….…………
Chairman of the Pradesiya Sabha. Owner/Resident.
Witness to Signature:- ………………………….…………
12-805
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.