

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
RANGA ART INSTITUTE (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 11 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 18th March, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 20, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)
Act, No. 11 of 2009
1
Short title.
Preamble.
[Certified on 18th March, 2009]
L.D.—O. INC 2/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  RANGA  ART  INSTITUTE
WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Ranga Art
Institute” has therefore formed at Kahapola, Piliyandala, in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Association, according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Ranga Art Institute
(Incorporation) Act, No. 11 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Ranga
Art Institute” (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Institute hereby
constituted, shall be and become a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”), with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of the “Ranga Art Institute” and by
that name may sue, and be sued, in all courts, with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal and alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to contribute in different ways with a view to
bequeathing, drumming and dancing which are our
traditional cultural legacies to the future generation;
Incorporation of
the “Ranga Art
Institute.”
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)
Act, No. 11 of 2009
(b) to maintain the Ranaga Institute of Art at a high
standard as a Faculty of Arts and Crafts;
(c) to formulate a five year full time non-paying  course
for pupils of the traditional Dancing and Drumming
Arts and the production and repair of instruments;
(d) to encourage the safeguarding of Dancing
and Drumming and to implement programmes
connected thereto;
(e) to foster and protect our cultural heritage;
(f) to make traditional arts attractive to the youth by
the enrichment of the traditional drumming and
dancing through new trends;
(g) to initiate national and regional level programmes
with the participation of the youth for the protection
of the traditional system of arts;
(h) to participate actively in the religious, cultural and
social activities within and outside the country;
(i) to give students the opportunity practicipating in
various cultural programmes;
(j) to give students the necessary financial strength to
become successfull enterprenures at the end of their
courses;
(k) to implement a special social insurance project for
the upliftment of the living standards of the
traditional Artists and the fostering of  retired
artists; and
(l) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
leaflets, newspapers and magazines which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects.

<!-- page 4 -->

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)
Act, No. 11 of 2009
3
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act and the rules as made by the
Corporation under the section 7 of the Corporation, be
administered by a Administrative Council (hereinafter referred
to as the “Council”) consisting of the Dean of the Institute,
Deputy Dean of the Institute, Assistant Dean of the Institute,
the Secretary, the Treasurer and four other members as may
be elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Administrative Council of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Trustees of the
Organization holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
5. There shall be a Advisory Board which shall consist
of five members appointed by the Council. The members of
the Advisory Board may attend the meetings of the Council.
The Board may grant advice, on various issues, but the Board
shall not have power to vote.
6. Subject to the provision of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwise
obtain lands  or buildings which may be required
for the purpose of the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise money from the Government
approved Banks and other institutions or accept aids
and donations (foreign and local) for the purposes
of the Corporation with the approval of the Council;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instrument
and to open, operate, maintain and close bank
accounts;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Power of the
Corporation to
acquire property,
invest funds, and
raise loans &c.
Advisory Board.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)
Act, No. 11 of 2009
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purpose of the Corporation, in such a manner as
the Council may think fit,
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants,
donations and gifts of all kinds;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person,
company or body of persons;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trusts and conditions affecting
any real or personal property;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officer and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation; and
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or aborad for the
purpose of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, and
other written law for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) election of the members of the Council or vacation
of or removal from office as office bearers and
powers, duties and conduct of the Council;
(b) the appointment powers, duties, functions and
conduct of the teachers, various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation and termination of
Service and payment of salaries of them;
(c) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council, the
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)
Act, No. 11 of 2009
5
Corporation or any sub-committee thereof, filling
of vacancies, notices and agenda of such meetings,
the quorum therefore and the conduct of business
thereat;
(d) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership in the Institute and the Corporation; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation and the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Institute in force on the day preceding
the date of commencement of this Act shall insofar as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation
and may be amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like
meeting and in like manner as a rules made under subsection
(1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
Rules of the Corporation.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and the
financial year shall be from 1st January to 31st of December
of the same year.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contribution fees or grants for and
on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in a bank
approved by the Council to the credit of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited at
least once in every year qualified auditor appointed by the
Board.
In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)
Act, No. 11 of 2009
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such  Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Dean of the Institute and the Secretary or such other person
duly authorized by the Council who shall sign their names
on the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate of any other person.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
How the seal of
the Corporation
is to be affixed.

<!-- page 8 -->

Ranga Art Institute (Incorporation)
Act, No. 11 of 2009
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.