

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  THE  BHAGAWAN
SRI  SATHYA  SAI  CENTRAL  TRUST  OF
SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)
ACT, N O . 38 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 24th September, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya
Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No, 38 of 2007
1
[Certified on 24th September, 2007]
L.D.—O. INC-9/2004.
A
N    ACT   TO   INCORPORA TE  THE   BOARD   OF   TRUSTEES   OF   THE
B HAGAV AN  SRI SA THYA  SAI CENTRAL  TRUST  OF  SRI  LANKA
WHEREAS a Trust called and known as the “The Board
of Trustees of the Bhagavan Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust
of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been established in Colombo
for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Trust :
AND WHEREAS the Board of Trustees of  the said Trust
has heretofore successfully carried out and  transacted
the several objects  and  matters for which the said Trust
was established and has applied to be incorporated and it
will be for the public advantage to grant the  application:
BE IT THEREFORE enacted by  the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act may be cited as the  Board of Trustees of
the Bhagavan  Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation ) Act, No. 38  of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act such and so many persons as now are members of the
Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya Sai Central
Trust of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Trust”)
or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Board of
Trustees of the said Trust  shall be a body corporate with
the perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan  Sri Sathya Sai Central
Trust of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as “the
Corporation” ) and by that name may sue and be sued  with
full power and authority to have and to use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation  of
the Board of
Trustees of the
Bhagavan Sri
Sathya Sai
Central Trust of
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 3 -->

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya
Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No, 38 of 2007
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be –
(i) to carry the  message and teachings of Bhagavan
Sri Sathya Sai Baba ;
(ii) to promote through practice and example the basic
principles of Sathya (Truth), Dharma
(Righteousness), Shanthi (Peace), Prema (Love)
and Ahimsa (Non Violence) set by Bhagawan Sri
Sathya Sai Baba ;
(iii) to promote the  knowledge of Vedas, Upanishads,
Shastras, Purans and other literature of the Sanathana
Dharma ;
(iv) to promote the study of the Noble, sublime and
highest ethical principles of all great religions of
the world and the spirituallty which is the true basis
of all such religions ;
(v) to promote inter-religious harmony ;
(vi) to promote peace and goodwill among mankind ;
(vii) to provide scholarships to deserving students at any
school, college, university or any Institute approved
by the Trust ;
(viii) to assist needy students by providing books,
instruments, apparel, loans and grants in cash ;
(ix) to conduct study classes, lectures, seminars, study-
tours and engage in such other activities as may
promote the advancement of education ;
(x) to provide homes for the needy and indigent, aged
and disabled and orphan children ;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya
Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No, 38 of 2007
3
(xi) to provide food rations, meals, clothing and other
assistances to persons in distress ;
(xii) to build, establish and provide hospitals and
clinics for the treatment of sick persons ;
(xiii) to provide medicines and medical treatment to
sick persons ;
(xiv) to conduct  exhibitions and engage in  activities
which may promote health, social welfare and
social rehabilitation and  prevent the spread of
diseases  ; and
(xv) to co-ordinate with other Trusts of the Sri Sathya
Sai Organization of Sri Lanka, that are now in
existence or  be constituted hereafter.
4. (1) The administration, management and control
of the  Corporation shall be vested in a Board  of Trustees
(hereinafter  referred to as the “Board”) consisting of
eleven members elected in  accordance with the rules  of
the Corporation, including—
(a) the Chairman of the Corporation ;
(b) the  General Secretary of the Corporation ; and
(c) the Treasurer of the  Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
be the Board of Trustees of the Trust holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
which shall hold  office untill a new Board of Trustee is
elected in and accordance with the rules of the
Corporation.
Constitution of
the Board of
Trustees.

<!-- page 5 -->

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya
Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No, 38 of 2007
4
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the following
powers which shall be exercised by the Board :—
(a) to receive or collect grants, gifts or donations  or
subsidies whether in cash or otherwise from local
or foreign sources ;
(b) to acquire and hold , take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of
any property, movable or immovable ;
(c) to give grants, endowments or loans for the
futherance of the objects of the Corporation ;
(d) to open and operate bank accounts and to draw,
make, accept, endorse and negotiate cheques,
promissory notes, bills of exchange and
negotiable instruments ;
(e) to appoint, employ and dismiss, such officers and
servants as may be necessary for carrying out the
objects of the Corporation, on such terms and
conditions and at such remuneration as may be
determined by the Board ;
(f) to invest funds belonging to the Corporation in
such securities as may be determined by the
Board ; and
(g) to do all such other acts or things as may be
necessary for the attainment of the objects of the
Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at a general meeting of the members and by votes
of two-thirds of the members present and voting to make
Rules of the
Corporation.
General powers of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya
Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No, 38 of 2007
5
such rules not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act
or any other written law for all or any of the following
matters :-
(a) the term of office of the members of the Board
and   the resignation or removal from office of
such members, the filling of vacancies and
election of such members ;
(b) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation including their terms and conditions
of service ;
(c) the procedure to be followed  at the  meetings of
the Board,  the summoning  and the quorum of
such meetings  and the conduct of business
thereat;
(d) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation  and the custody of its funds ;
and
(e) such other things as may be necessary for the
attainment of the objects of the Trust.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended
or rescinded in like manner as a rule may be made under
subsection (1).
(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Fund of the Corporation (hereinafter referred
to as the “Trust Fund”) shall consist of—
(a) all moneys lying to the credit of the Trust on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act ; and
(b) all moneys that may accrue to the Corporation after
the date of commencement of this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya
Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No, 38 of 2007
6
(2) All moneys lying to the credit of the Trust Fund
shall be utilized to defray the expenses incurred in the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor appointed by the
Corporation.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing  on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due by and
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Trust on
that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purpose
of this Act.
Audit of
accounts.
Debts due by or
payable to the
Trust.

<!-- page 8 -->

Board of Trustees of the Bhagawan Sri Sathya
Sai Central Trust of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No, 38 of 2007
7
10. The seal of the Corporation—
(a) shall be in custody of such persons as the
Board may from time to time determine ;
(b) may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Board  ; and
(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document except with the sanction of the Board
and in the presence of at least two members of
the Board who shall sign the instrument or
document in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of
any person as a witness.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by the rules prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its members.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,
N O . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWA THA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th December each year in respect
of the year following.