

<!-- page 1 -->

II fldgi ( YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART II :  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
1A
1A -  G 033621 — 30  (01/2021)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
w;s úfYI
wxl 2212$54 - 2021 ckjdß ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'01'29
No.  2212/54  - FRIDAY ,   JANUARY    29,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LEGAL
Supreme Court Notices
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
L.D.B. 13/1978(III)
THE   CONSTITUTION   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA
The Supreme Court Rules
RULES made under Article 136 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka by the Chief Justice
and the other Judges of the Supreme Court nominated by him under that Article.
JAYANTHA JAYASURIYA,
Chief Justice.
B. P. ALUVIHARE,
Judge of the Supreme Court.
P. PADMAN SURASENA,
Judge of the Supreme Court.
YASANTHA KODAGODA,
Judge of the Supreme Court.
Colombo,
27th January, 2021.

<!-- page 2 -->

II fldgi ( YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART II :  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
2A
 RULES
1. These rules may be cited as the Supreme Court (Electronic Filing and Urgent Digital Virtual Hearings) (Special
Provisions) Rules, 2021 and shall come into operation with effect from February 15, 2021.
2. Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of the Supreme Court Rules, 1990 published in Gazette
Extraordinary No. 665/32 of June 7, 1991, as amended from time to time (hereinafter referred to as the “existing rules”),
these rules shall apply for-
(a) electronic filing of applications, appeals, motions and other documents pertaining to such applications and
appeals, in the Supreme Court; and
(b) conducting urgent digital virtual hearings by the Supreme Court with regard to applications, appeals and
motions, filed under these rules or existing rules, deemed to be urgent in terms of rule 3.
3. An application, appeal or a motion filed under these rules or existing rules shall be deemed to be urgent, if the Judge
of the Supreme Court designated in that behalf by the Chief Justice, having regard to the inability to conduct
conventional physical hearings due to any reason prejudicial to national security, public safety or the order and
security within the precincts of the Supreme Court, and the need to make available the smooth and uninterrupted
administration of Justice by the Supreme Court in urgent cases during the aforesaid inability, considers that such
application, appeal or motion requires an urgent digital virtual hearing (hereinafter referred to as the “digital hearing”)
in terms of these rules.
4. (1) A person who intends to file an application or appeal in the Supreme Court electronically or a party to an
application or appeal already filed in the Supreme Court under the existing rules who intends to file other
documents pertaining to such application or appeal in the Supreme Court electronically, may, by himself or
through an attorney- at- law acting on his behalf submit through electronic mail to the Registrar of the Supreme
Court (hereinafter referred to as the “Registrar”) the application, appeal or other documents along with a motion
addressed to the Chief Justice and other Judges of the Supreme Court.
(2) (a) An applicant, appellant or other party to any case or matter in the Supreme Court (hereinafter referred to
as the “party”) who seeks to have a digital hearing shall file a motion electronically, as specified in sub-
rule (1), by himself or through an attorney- at- law acting on his behalf.
(b) Such motion shall inter-alia state specifically and in detail the reason which warrants and justifies the
hearing of the application, appeal or motion by a digital hearing and such motion shall contain the full
name and contact details including the electronic mail address and mobile telephone number of the party
seeking such hearing or such details of an attorney- at- law with whom the Registrar may contact for
making arrangements for the digital hearing.
(3) The provisions of existing rules shall apply to every application, appeal, motion or other document referred to
in sub-rules (1) and (2) in so far as such provisions are not inconsistent with these rules.
(4) Every application, appeal, motion or other document referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2) shall -
(a) be computer generated on A4 size page setting, with 4cm margins on left and right sides and 2cm top and
bottom borders of the page using font size 12 of Times New Roman with 1.5 line spacing;
(b) accompany documents in compliance with the existing rules, including signatures or certifications where
required;
(c) be prepared and scanned without any watermark and whenever possible be at 300 dots per inch (dpi) with
optical character recognition (OCR);

<!-- page 3 -->

II fldgi ( YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART II :  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
3A
(d) be amalgamated wherever possible into a single portable document format (PDF) file with the page
number at the bottom of every page in a single series, commencing from the covering motion; and
(e) in the event of an application, appeal, motion, other documents or attachments thereunder exceeding file
size 20 MB, such application, appeal, motion, other documents or attachments shall be split into multiple
PDF files as may be required to achieve the designated file size, and be submitted through one or more
electronic mails or stored in a suitable data storage web based mechanism such as ‘cloud storage’ and
necessary access to such storage mechanism be provided through electronic mail to the Registrar.
(5) The party or an attorney- at- law filing documents electronically in terms of these rules shall retain the hard
copies of such documents so filed in the safe custody of such party or the attorney- at- law as the case may be,
and submit them to the Registrar on the direction of the Supreme Court.
5. (1) A Judge of the Supreme Court designated in that behalf by the Chief Justice sitting in chambers shall consider
motions filed electronically in the Supreme Court under rule 4, and
where necessary, the applications, appeals or other documents filed therewith and decide whether such
applications, appeals or motions shall be taken up for digital hearing.
(2) Where it appears to the satisfaction of such Judge that the matter pertaining to any motion filed electronically
in the Supreme Court is urgent within the meaning of rule 3 and it is expedient to refer such matter for a digital
hearing, he shall make an appropriate direction to the Registrar to arrange a digital hearing pertaining to such
matter.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Registrar to comply with the provisions specified in rule 6 in order to make arrangements
for a digital hearing.
6. (1) The Registrar shall require the party or the attorney-at-law who has been nominated by the party -
(a) to pay the relevant fees applicable in respect of electronic filing and digital hearing, and submit proof of
payment to the Registrar;
(b) to notify all the parties to such application or appeal, regarding the filing of the application, appeal or the
motion, in the manner specified by the Registrar, and to submit proof of such notice to the Registrar.
(2) The Registrar, shall not process any such application, appeal or motion unless he is satisfied that the party or
the attorney- at- law, as the case may be, has acted in compliance with sub-rule (1) (a).
(3) Where the party or the attorney- at- law fails to comply with the preceding provisions of this rule at the first
instance, such party or the attorney- at- law shall be notified by the Registrar through electronic mail that such
application, appeal or motion will not be processed unless he acts in compliance with this rule within a period
specified in such notification.
(4) Where the party or the attorney- at- law fails to comply with the notification of the Registrar within the period
specified in such notification, the application, appeal or motion shall be forwarded to the Judge referred to in
rule 5 for an appropriate direction.
(5) Where it has been decided under sub- rule (2) of rule 5 that any motion filed under rule 4 warrants a digital
hearing and the party or the attorney- at- law, as the case may be, complies with the provisions of this rule, the
Registrar shall fix a date and time for the digital hearing on the direction of the Judge referred to in rule 5.

<!-- page 4 -->

II fldgi ( YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART II :  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
4A
(6) The date and time fixed for the digital hearing shall be informed either through electronic mail or by telephone
to the Judges designated by the Chief Justice to hear the case or matter and to the parties or to their attorneys-
at-law, as the case may be.
7. (1) With the view to ensuring the conduct of a proper digital hearing, every party shall ensure that-
(a) the digital hearing be conducted using a real time contemporaneous or near contemporaneous internet
based video conferencing platform specified by the Registrar;
(b) he shall be equipped with a properly functioning computer with a web cam, microphone and a speaker
when participating in a digital hearing;
(c) a suitable and quiet location be used when participating in the digital hearing and shall locate himself in
a place which has a non-descriptive and plain background behind him that will be displayed on the
screen ;
(d) he be available online at least fifteen minutes prior to the scheduled time of the digital hearing, in order to
verify the proper functioning of the internet connection and network among all parties in order to commence
the digital hearing.
(2) An attorney- at- law who participates in the digital hearing shall use his name with surname as the “display
name”.
8. (1) The following persons shall be entitled to participate at a digital hearing:-
(a) attorneys- at- law of the respective parties ;
(b) parties to the application, appeal or motion or their authorized representatives with the permission of the
Supreme Court obtained through their attorneys-at- law, who may observe the proceedings of the digital
hearing, by remaining in the vicinity of the computer used by such attorneys-at-law;
(c) parties to the application, appeal or motion not represented by an attorney- at- law; and
(d) officials of the Supreme Court.
(2) All such persons are required to inform the Registrar of their names, identification details and contact details,
prior to the commencement of the proceedings of the digital hearing, including details of persons not captured
within the video frame:
Provided however, every endeavor shall be made to have all the persons present, to be seated within the range
of the web cam of the computer.
(3) A person shall not attend or be present in the vicinity of a digital hearing unless the prior permission of the
Supreme Court has been obtained for such attendance or presence.
(4) A person shall not address the Court or display any matter for the attention of the Court without obtaining prior
permission from such Court.
(5) The parties shall ensure that the webcam of the computer and the “video” option in the video conferencing
platform remains turned “on” at all times during the digital hearing, unless prior permission is obtained from the
Court.

<!-- page 5 -->

II fldgi ( YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'29
PART II :  GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 29.01.2021
5A
(6) All persons are strictly prohibited from recording, copying, storing, sharing, broadcasting, telecasting or
otherwise transmitting the whole or part of a digital hearing in the form of a video, audio, digital or in any other
form.
(7) All parties taking part in a digital hearing shall remain online until the Court concludes the hearing:
Provided however, a party may leave the venue from which he is participating in the digital hearing, or switch
“off’ the “video” option, with the prior permission of the Court.
(8) A party may seek permission from the Court to adjourn the digital hearing, if such party undergoes any
difficulty which requires technical assistance, until such difficulty is resolved or an alternate system is
implemented with the permission of the Court.
(9) Proceedings relating to an application, appeal or a motion commenced or dealt with in a digital hearing, may be
subsequently proceeded with, either as a further session of digital hearing or as a conventional physical
hearing.
9. Every digital hearing shall be conducted in compliance with the existing Rules of the Supreme Court generally
applicable for hearings in the Supreme Court, to the greatest extent possible and be deemed to be a proceeding
conducted in the Supreme Court with the physical participation of the Judges and the persons referred to in sub-rule
(1) of rule 8.
10. For the purposes of these rules “other documents” include objections, counter, affidavits, written submissions and
any other documents permitted to be filed in the Supreme Court with regard to any case or matter in the Supreme
Court.
02 - 249
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.