

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of September 18, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 21. 09. 2015)
SUJEEWA SENASINGHE FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Nalin Bandara Jayamaha , M.P.
for Kurunegala District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)
2—PL 009219—300 (09/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Short title.
25
2—PL 008742—300 (01/2015)
Preamble.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SUJEEWA SENASINGHE FOUNDATION
WHERE a Foundation called and known as the “Sujeewa
Senasinghe Foundation” has heretofore been establish in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and
matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:
1. This Act, may be cited as the Sujeewa Senasinghe
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.  of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation” (hereinafter referred to
as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name
and style of “Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation”  and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts,  with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
(a) to give assistance and scholarships to needy
children enable them to continue their education,
encourage them to attend school regularly;
Incorporation
of the
Sujeewa
Senasinghe
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to give assistance and funds to public (Home) and
private orphanages, for food programms;
(c) to provide relief and welfare services in natural
disasters, distress and unespected incidents;
(d) to give assistance and funds to public schools for
constructions and repairs of buildings and training
of teachers;
(e) to provide sports materials, consturct sports facilities
and grant programms for the development of
teaching sports skills of the youth;
(f) to created any activities (small industries or
services) that can generate, on a non-profit base,
the revenues to finance all actions in accordance to
the above objects;
(g) to promote, arrange and organize events, festivals ,
artistic shows, publish newsletter or books to
achieve these objects; and
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions or foundations which have similar
objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the  time being of the Corporation be administered by a
Board  of Directors consisting of a Chairman, and Secretary,
Treasurer and eight other members elected in accordance
with such rules.
(2) The Founder member of the Foundation Honourable
Sujeewa Senasinghe shall be the Chairman of the Board of
Directors for life. And thereafter the close family member of
the person who was holding office as the Chairman shall
become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and excute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any building
or structures on any land held by the Corporation and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and  membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qulification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
General
powers of the
Corporation.
30
Rules of the
Corporation,

<!-- page 5 -->

Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys hereafter to be received by way of gift, bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and
on account of the corporation shall be diposited to the credit
of the Corporation in one om more banks as the Board of
Directors shall  determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
power, duties and function under this Act.
8. The Coporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition,  or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. No member of the Corporation there remains after
the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities of the
Corporation or for any other purpose, be liable to make any
contribution exceeding the amount of such membership fees
as may be  due from him to the Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Funds of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is or
are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
11. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of person as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Sujeewa Senasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .