

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
¡ºø —ïÊË  EXTRAORDINARY
¡â¨ 1801/33 – 2013 ud¾;= 14 Éæ¾ø n%yiam;skaod – 2013.03.14
No. 1801/33 – THURSDAY, MARCH  14, 2013
( Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A – G 17430– 350 (2013/ 03)
My No.: CI/1509.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Rileys (Pvt) Limited, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 the one part and the United Tea
Rubber and Local Produce Worker’s Union, 513 - 2/1, Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 24th day of January 2011 is hereby
published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V. B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
21st February, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 05 of 2011
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made this Twenty Fourth day of January Two Thousand and Eleven to take effect from the First day of
June Two Thousand and Ten pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act
BETWEEN
RILEYS (PVT) LIMITED, having its registered office at 400 Deans Road, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘’Employer”) of the
ONE PART
AND
THE UNITED TEA RUBBER AND LOCAL PRODUCE WORKER’S UNION a registered Trade Union having its office at 513-2/1
Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 5 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union”) of the SECOND PART
WITNESSETH AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS :
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
TITLE : This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the RILEYS (PVT) LIMITED MANUAL WORKER’S COLLECTIVE
AGREEMENT OF 2010.
PART  I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS
INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED THEREWITH
1. Persons Covered and Bound. – This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and members of the Union who
are employed by the Employer in a manual or labouring capacity on monthly contracts of employment and for whom provision has been made
in the wage scales set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
2. Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the 1st day of June Two Thousand and Ten and
shall thereafter continue in force unless it is determined by either party giving notice in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act in writing to the
other subject to the following provisos :-
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the Thirty First day of May Two Thousand
and Thirteen (2013 AD) and no notice given before that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri Lankan Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be
at liberty to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial
Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment .–  During the continuance in force of this agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this agreement, whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall  come into being at any time after the date hereof or during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. Probation.– Every employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a Period of probation of not more than six (6) months, Provided
however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee , the
probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the employer shall indicate to the employee in
writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended During the Period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall
have the right to terminate the services of the employee without notice. If the employee’s services are not terminated for unsatisfactory service
during the period of probation or extended probation and the Employee has not been confirmed by the Employer, the Employee shall  be
deemed to be confirmed in his Employer’s service with effect from the day after the day on which the period of probation or extended probation,
as the case may be, ended.
5. Attendance.- (1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every day
(other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job work is temporarily not available for an employee in his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within his capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to appropriate.
Disciplinary action.
6. Hours of work.-The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be nine and one half (9 1/2) hours inclusive of a half
(1/ 2) hour interval for a meal and other  intervals existing at the date of  this Agreement.
7. Forfeiture of Wages.-Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer, an employee fails to hold himself available
for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his wages for
the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
8. Overtime.- (1) If required by his Employer an employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorised by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall constitute neglect
of duty for which an employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(2) Overtime work ( that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one-half (1 1/2)
times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16(a) hereof.
9. Weekly Holiday and Saturdays.- (1) In respect of each week every employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that
week as the weekly holiday. Provided, however, that if an employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty-eight (28) hours, exclusive
of any period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage in
respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause (16 (b) hereof.
(2) In computing the period of twenty-eight (28) hours referred to in Sub-Clause (1) the Employer shall include.-
(a) every holiday allowed by the Employer to Employee as annual holiday.
(b) every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of Clause 11 hereof; and
(c) every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
(3) The Employer may employ any employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that employee, as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided, however, that if any employee who is employed on his weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and in such
event that employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in accordance with the
provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that employee within six (6) days of that
weekly holiday, provided further that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly holidays in any one calendar month the
Employer may with the consent of the employee.-
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that employee shall
not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid pay him one day’s wage
computed in accordance with the provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday,
OR
(b) In case that an employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in respect
of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s wage as aforesaid
employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) that in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the employee shall be paid as remuneration:
(a) one and one-half (1 1/2 ) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 16(a) hereof
for the  number of hours worked during the first nine (9) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and
(b) at double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of Clause (17(a) hereof for each subsequent
hour of work.
The provisions of this sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the
Employer for periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a non-working day only for Employees for whom it was a non-working  day as at present. In their case
where an Employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday in terms of this clause he shall forfeit three fifth of his pay for
Saturday if he has worked only 2 days in the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has worked only one day in the week
and shall receive no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any day in the week. For the purpose of this sub-clause days
worked will be reckoned in terms of sub-clause 2 above.
10. Annual Holidays.- Annual holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Board in the case of Employees in the Brush Manufacturing Trade the annual holidays shall be in terms of the decision of the wages Board for
the Coir Matters and Bristle Fibre Export Trade.
11. Public Holidays.- (1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee in accordance with the decisions of the relevant Wages
Board In the case of Employees in the Brush Manufacturing Trade the Public holidays shall  be in terms of the decision of the Wages Board
for the Coir Mattress and Bristle Fibre Export Trade. Provided however,  that an employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance
with the decisions of the aforesaid Wages Board.
(2) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either
in the six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be granted
to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of Clause 9 hereof.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(3) If any public holiday to which an employee is eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Saturday, the number
of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding the saturday shall be five and one half (5
1/2) hours and no interval for a meal shall be granted.
12. Casual leave.- (1) In respect of each year of employment during which any employee has been continuously in employment
that employee shall be entitled to take  on account of private business or other reasonable cause, including ill-health if that  Employee’s
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilised, leave (hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”) with remuneration for the period or an aggregate
of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remuneration Provided
however that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any one time save and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided
further that any employee shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately preceding or immediately following any period of annual
holidays. Provided further that in respect of any employee/s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to
casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the employee being required to state that reason for the
application. where an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for casual leave, his difficulty shall be notified to the
employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the employee may be required to state the reason
for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual
leave.
13. Sick leave.- In any year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty-one (21) days. Provided that:
(a) his illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his Employer), and
(b) the employee shall not be on probation with in the meaning of Clause  6 hereof. Provided, however, that an employee who
has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of employment be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months’ probation and sick leave not
exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months’s probation.
14. Monthly consolidated wages in Lieu of CCPI Consolidation. - (1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 15 hereof and the
Employer’s right to make deductions from wages in terms of the practices prevailing at the date of this Agreement and also subject to the
existing practices in relation to the performance by Employees of work in other grades (whether in higher or lower grades), as from the First
day of June Two Thousand and Ten each Employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and conditions herein contained, a monthly
consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the Schedule 1 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set out in Schedule 1 hereto include the Allowances which were consolidated in terms of Clause
14 of the Ravi Industries Ltd Collective Agreement of 1993.
(3)This Agreement shall not have the effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
(4) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this agreement will be revised as follows :
A sum of Rs. 500/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Ten.
A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Eleven.
A sum of Rs. 600/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Twelve.
(5) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka -
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement, legally obliging the
Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in
terms of such written law.
(b) Recommends increases in wages, such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether or
not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(6) (a)As a matter of goodwill it is agreed that an employee, who is in employment at the date hereof shall receive an ex-gratia
payment of a sum representing the amount added to the wage of each individual employee by virtue of Clause 15(i) hereof
multiplied x 5.
(b)This lump sum payment by way of notional arrears shall not constitute a part of an employee’s earnings for any purpose
whatsoever and shall not attract consequential payments such as overtime, Provident Fund, Trust Fund, etc.
14A. Incentive payments.–  The existing system of incentive payment shall continue, which is more fully described in
Schedule 2.
15. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.– For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an Employee shall
receive with effect from the First day of June Two Thousand and Ten on the basis of scales of consolidated wages set out in the  First
Schedule hereto the following provisions subject to the provisions of clause 14 above shall apply:
(i) All Employee shall be given an increase in wage of a sum of Rs. 800/- with effect from 01 june Two Thousand and Ten
(ii) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the wage scale in the First Schedule without
change in grade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the same grade.
(iii) All Employee in employment as at 31st December Two Thousand and Ten shall be given an increase in wage of
Rs 400/- with effect from 01st January Two Thousand and Eleven.
(iv) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the wage scale in the First Schedule without
change in grade and if there is no corresponding point in terms of money value, the next higher stage on the same grade.
16. Wages for Periods Less Than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
17. Annual Lump sum payment lieu of NRCOLG .–   (1) A lump sum payment based on revenue growth would be made in April
each year on the following basis.
FOB Turnover Growth (FOB Turnover for the year less FOB Turnover for the previous year/ FOB Turnover for the
previous year) % x Average Basic Salary that prevailed at the beginning of the year (April) x 12 subject to a minimum
payment of Rs 14, 000 per year and a maximum payment equivalent to 2 months average basic salary that prevailed at the
beginning of the year. Prorated deductions will be made from employees who have registered no pay during the year.
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on this lump sum payment.
18. Provident Fund .– (1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the
Employees’ Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Employee’s Trust Fund Act No. 46 of 1980 where the Employer and Employee as at the
date hereof were contributing to Provident Fund at rates more favourable than those prescribed by the Employee’s
Provident Fund Act, the more favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to Employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of
1983.
20. Bonus.–   (1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment
in the past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue to pay to each of
his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing
of the Ravi Industries Ltd. Manual worker’s Collective Agreement of 1993. If in any year the Employer, in his discretion reduces the bonus

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
to an amount less than the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of the Ravi
Industries Ltd. Manual Worker’s Collective Agreement of 1993 the Union may canvas such reduction of bonus with the Employer
concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue this matter with the Employers Fed eration
of Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same shall be referred to a committee of three
(3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a ‘Bonus Committee’) which shall be constituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-clause 2 for
settlement in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour
will constitute a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior Accountants nominated by the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10)
years’ post qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union and to the Federa-
tion. Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each member of the Bonus Committee
so constituted a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of the Bonus Committee shall be bound in
settling the dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of
the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and
the Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the Union and/or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee is
divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding on
the parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General’s decision shall be communicated in writing to the Federation and
the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
(4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of the Ravi
Industries Manual Worker’s Collective Agreement of 1993.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus Committee shall be borne equally by the parties to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of Ravi Industries Manual Worker’s Collective Agreement of 1993 shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer
and shall not be called in question by the Union and / or its members nor shall the Employer’s failure or refusal to pay such
bonus be the subject of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to existing bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of the Commissioner General of Labour the council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms to serve on the Bonus Committee.
21. Annual Increments.– (1) The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in Schedule I hereto
shall be automatic, unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary
action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment is –
(a) deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) susupended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being dependent
upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension. Where on such decision an increment is neither stopped
nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension thereof shall
occur to the employee concerned.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee has been notified, in writing
of a complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty after due inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the
circumstances does not merit termination of employment.
(2) With effect from 1st June 2010 the incremental rates in Schedule 1 will be revised as follows :
Skilled                     Rs. 80/-
Semi Skilled            Rs. 60/-
Unskilled               Rs. 40/-
22. Productivity Improvement and Elimination of Waste.– The employees agree to co-operate with the Employer to enchance
productivity levels, comply with health and safety procedures and practices, various projects implemented by management to mini mize
waste in all forms in the mutual interest of preserving the future of the Company.
23. Warnings.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by
a letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
  24. Suspension.–  1. An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer–
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
2. At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide
the Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an
inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of clause 24 hereof.
25. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then:
1. Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 23 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice, which shall set out the particulars of the charge or  charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than three (3) clear working days in which to give
the answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2. Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a
written answer or explanation to the show cause notice  and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer,
the Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the
case.
3. If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
4. If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within Ten (10)  working days
from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
5. After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings on each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30)  working days
from the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect
of such charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
6. If the Employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that;
(a) The Employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 23(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I  ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
irrespective of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to
the charges in the show cause notice;
(b) The Employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s
suspension and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the  Police or  other
authorities for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to the Police or  other
authorities or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had
been previously referred to the Police or  other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such
investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the Employee may remain suspended
without pay.
7. If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30)
working days from  the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration
for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension
in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes and order under paragraphs ( a) to (c) of the
preceding sub-clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
8. In any case where an Employee is suspended as provided herein the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of  sub-clause 6  within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from
so doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between
the  Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of  ninety (90) days be extended for such
further time  as may be agreed.
9. The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes  to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the
Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an
inquiry the Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then
apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after the
receipt of the Employee’s  explanation shall not be material or relevant.
26. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired  may, in the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.
27. Termination of Services:  (1)  Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for
work usually performed by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 4 hereof or unless otherwise
expressly stipulated) be deemed  and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from
month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to  be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to the
other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an  Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
28. Union Recognition.– The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members who are employed
in any work - place of the Employer bound by this agrement regard to issues of general application or to the effect of principle such as matters
affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as a whole, the following provisions shall apply.
(1) When the Union is represenative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of the Employees whose membership subscription
is not in arrears, the Employer of such Employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters and
negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of not less than forty per centum (40%)
of such Employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and negotiated with

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
all the Unions competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately with each such
Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one work - place and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one work - place but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claim or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
29. Disputes Procedure.–  (1) In the first instance, the Union shall submit any demand on behalf of its members to the Employer of
such members and give the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If, in the Union’s opinion, the Employer’s reply
is unsatisfactory, the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) If there is no settlement the Union shall take up such unresolved dispute with the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon and the
discussion would be beld at the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon with all parties to resolve such dispute.
(3) When the Union concludes that negotiations with the Employer and the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon have been abortive,
it shall ask the Department of Labour to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working days to arrange
conference and /or discussions with a view to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department of
Labour shall then proceed until the Department of Labour reports failure.
(4) Subject to the provisions of clause 30 hereof, all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties hereto
shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(5) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate support or engage in any unfair labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
30. How Anomalies in the Course of Implementing this Agreement shall be Dealt with.– Any anomaly arising from the implemen-
tation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled by negotiation,
it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
31. Trade Union Action.– The Union and the Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in
force of this Agreement, they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any dispute
between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is related to the Agreement, except where such dispute has
been caused by an act of Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body, (by whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or
vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the Union and/ or its members or is grossly unfair
or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and / or its members.  Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days notice in writing shall
be given by the Union to the Employer the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of any
intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent/ an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by
whatsoever name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities
of the Union and/ or its member is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and/ or its members.
32. Variations of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–  (1)  The Union and Employees jointly and severally agree
with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary,  alter or add to all or any of the terms and
conditions of employment presently  applicable to any of the Employees covered and bound by this Agreement as amended or altered in terms
of this Agreement, or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, other than
by mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the Union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or any
of the benefits presently enjoyed by the Employees other than by mutual Agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses (1) or (2) may be resolved by
voluntary arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by
voluntary arbitration.

<!-- page 10 -->

10 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1. Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and Federation the Union shall commit a breach of any of
the terms of this  Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions granted
by the Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore
such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide:
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 24 is a member of the union,
the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice-
(a) The Employeer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as An Observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires an Observer to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.– The following Provisions shall apply to  Meetings of the Union:-
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the  Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, and application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the employer shall be entitled to impose inter alia, one or more the under noted
conditions
(i) that no person other than an Employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the union;
(ii) on occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, Office Bearers of the Parent Union may with the
previous approval of the employer, attend;
(iii) fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union  shall be concluded or adjourned.
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of the
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage  is caused in the course of or the,in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other person at the Employer’s  premises and the Union shall
indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–   (1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave:– Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse
to grant permission if, in his discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for
not less than two (2) Office Bearers of the Union -

<!-- page 11 -->

11 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(a) to be present at conferences to be held under  the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
OR
(b) to attend  inquiries  before  Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals.
without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an employee to attend a trade union course of
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to Annual or other holidays
which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
5. Check - off.–
(1) The facility of check-off shall be granted subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Union represents no less than
forty per centum (40%) of the employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall, on the written request of an Employee, deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be  payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union, in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the  conditions hereinafter set
forth.
(3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No.1 referred to as an “ Authorisation”.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to  check - off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 referred to as a “Revocation”.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorisation shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter until the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deductions under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however-
(a) that the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure to
comply with sub - clauses (5) or (6).
(b) that, at his discretion, the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in which
the deduction from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorisation by a cheque payable to the Treasures thereof and crossed “Account Payee”.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concerned by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to the
Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasure on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the Union’s
dues actually deducted.

<!-- page 12 -->

12 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
FORM No. I
Name of Employer : RILEYS (PVT) LIMITED
AUTHORIZATION
As I am an Employee covered and bound by the RILEYS (PVT) LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2010 and I desire to avail myself
of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the UNITED TEA RUBBER &
LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION, please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ………… (Rs.) in respect of my
current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made
from my wages due immediately following the date hereof.
………………… ………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
………………………… ……………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM No. 2
Name of Employer : RILEYS (PVT) LIMITED
REVOCATION
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour of UNITED
TEA RUBBER & LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date
hereof.
………………… ………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
………………………… ……………………
(Full name of Employee) Checkroll Number
Received on ………………
(To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 13 -->

13 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and  II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite
to them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptions
payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement
(For convenience sometimes
referred to as ‘he’ or its
grammatical variations)
Employer Rileys (Pvt) Limited
Federation Employer’s Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is em-
ployed in.
Union United Tea Rubber & local produce Workers’ Union
Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the First Schedule
hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Year  A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine .Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and
vice versa.

<!-- page 14 -->

14 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
SCHEDULE 1

<!-- page 15 -->

15 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
ST GR.A GR.B GR.C GR.E1 GR.E2

<!-- page 16 -->

16 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
ST GR.A GR.B GR.C GR.E1 GR.E2
5A – G 13193

<!-- page 17 -->

17 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
ST GR.A GR.B GR.C GR.E1 GR.E2
2A – G 17430

<!-- page 18 -->

18 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
SCHEDULE 2

<!-- page 19 -->

19 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 20 -->

20 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 21 -->

21 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 22 -->

22 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 23 -->

23 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
03 - 1129
IN WITNESS WHEREOF PARTIES AFORESAID HAVE HEREUNTO SET THEIR HANDS IN COLOMBO. M. M. M. DE SILVA FOR AND ON BEHALF OF RILEYS (PVT)
LIMITED AND D. W. SUBASINGHE FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE UNITED TEA AND RUBBER & LOCAL PRODUCE WORKERS’ UNION ON THIS TWENTY
FOURTH DAY OF JANUARY TWO THOUSAND AND ELEVEN

<!-- page 24 -->

24 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
My No.: CI/1810. 
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Coats Thread Exports (Pvt) Limited, 123, Level 2, Maclarence Building, Bauddaloka
Mawatha, Colombo 04 of the one  part and Inter Company Employees’ Union, No. 12/2, Weera Mawatha, Soboothipura, Battaramulla of the
other Part on 25th July, 2012 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, Legislative Enactments
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V. B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th February, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 24 of 2012
COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT
This Collective Agreement, made on this Twenty Fifth day of July, Two Thousand and Twelve,  pursuant to the Industrial Disputes  Act
between the Coats Thread Exports (Pvt) Limited, a duly registered Company Under the Companies Act and having its registered office at No.
123, Level 2, Maclarence Building, Bauddaloka Mawatha, Colombo 4 (hereinafter referred to as  “the Employer”) of the one part and The Inter
Company Employees’ Union, a trade union duly registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance and having its registered office at No. 12/ 2,
Weera Mawatha, Suboothipura, Battaramulla, (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”) of the other part :-
WITNESSETH and it is hereby agreed between parties as follows ;-
Title : This Collective Agreement shall be known and referred to as the  Coats Thread Exports Employees Collective Agreement of
2012.
1. Parties Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and the Employees to whom the
Agreement shall apply.
2. Employees Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind all Employees employed at present by the Employer in its
Factory at Moragahahena on permanent monthly contracts of employment in the categories of employment for which salaries have been spelt
out in the First Shedule hereof and are members of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘Employees”).
3. Duration af Agreement.–  This Collective Agreement shall be effective from the 1st day of January, 2012 and shall thereafter
continue to be in force unless it is terminated by either party giving one month notice in writing to the other, subject to the proviso that one party,
here to shall not give such notice to the other party to Commence befor the 30 th day of November, Two Thousand & Fourteen and such notice
shall not expire before 31st December 2014.
4. Salaries.– Parties agree that the annual consolidation of a sum to the monthly salary based on the Colombo Consumer price Index
and the annual salary increase granted hithereto will be replaced by the following salary increase during the period as set out below.
(i) With effect from 1st  January, 2012, the Employer agrees to increase the monthly salaries of employees by the addition of a
sum of Rs. 2,500/- to the salary drawn by each employee as at December 2011.
(ii) With effect from 1st January, 2013, the Employer agrees to increase the monthly salaries of employees by the addition of a
sum of Rs. 2,750/- to the salary drawn by each employee as at December 2012.
(iii) With effect from 1st January, 2014, the Employer agrees to increase the monthly salaries of employees by the addition of a
sum of Rs. 2,750/- to the salary drawn by each employee as at December 2013.
5. Salary Scales and Annual Increments. –  (i)  With effect from 1st January, 2012, the commencement point of the salaries
applicable to the respective categories of employees and the annual increments applicable to such categories will be set out in the 1st shedule
hereto.

<!-- page 25 -->

25 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(ii) Each Employee shall be entitled to an annual increment on the grade applicable in terms of the First Shedule hereof, provided
however that such increment is not suspended, stopped or deferred by Employer on the basis of disciplinary action taken in
acordance with the provision hereof.
6. Notional Arrears.– All employees entitled to the salary increases referred to in clause 4 above will be paid a sum of Rs. 15,000/-
as notional arrears for period of 01.01.2012 - 30.06.2012 (Rs.2,500x6). This payment shall be made by the Employer in July 2012. The Union
and the Employees agree that the said notional arrears shall not be regarded as a part of employee earnings for any purpose whatsover and shall
not attract payments such as EPF, ETF, overtime and such like.
7. Annual Ex-Gratia Payment.– By way of an ex-gratia payment, the Employer shall pay each Employee covered and bound by this
Agreement in the month of April each year, a sum equal to one month’s salary of such Employee. The salary for this purpose will be the salary
applicable at the time of such payment.
By way of arrers in respect of the above payment, the Company agrees to pay a sum of Rs. 2,500/- to all employees who qualified
to receive this payment in April 2012. provided that such payment is subject to any proportionate deductions on account of service or absence
from work. In other words if any employee received only a proportionate payment when this payment was made in April 2012, such employee
will receive the above sum also to the same proportion.
8. Bonus Based on Sales Achivement.–   (a)   In addition to the payment in terms of Clause 7 above, the Employer shall make a further
bonus payment to Employees in the month of March or April each year in accordance with the formula set out in the Second Shedule hereof.
This payment will be linked to the achivement of sales volumes against budgeted sales targets.
(b) The union and the employees agree that they shall not jointly and / or severally call into question or raise any dispute with
regard to the sales budget determined by the Employer annually.
9. Leave.-  (a)  the leave entitlement of a confirmed Employee covered and bound by this Agreement shall be as follows in respect
of each year, from the 2nd year of employment.
(i) For employees who have joined the company on or before 31 st December 2011
Annual Leave : 14 days
Casual Leave : 07 days
Sick Leave : 14 days
(ii) For Employees who have joined the company on or after 01 st January 2012
Annual Leave : 14 days
Casual Leave : 07 days
Sick Leave 03 days
However, subject to a maximum of 11 days and the provisions in 9 (d) below, and employee who has commenced
employment after 01st January 2012 will be granted leave in case such an Employee is been hospitalized for medical
treatment.
(b) All annual Leave shall be taken on dated mutually convenient to the Employer and the Employee concerned by prior
arrangement and  with the written approval of the Employer.
Other than due to circumstances beyond an Employee’s control where prior approval of leave cannot be obtained from the
Employer, all other leave must also be taken with the prior approval of the Employer. Casual leave to whom applicable
shall not be permitted immediately preceding or succeeding a period of annual leave, except when approved by the
Employer on exceptional circumstances.
In the case of absence on account of sickness in excess of two days, a medical certificate acceptable to the Employer should
be submitted by the Employee. Any period of sick leave even for a single day, immediately preceding or succeeding annual
leave will be permitted only subject to a medical certificate acceptable to the Employer.

<!-- page 26 -->

26 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(c) The ‘Year of Employment’ and the ‘Leave Year’ of an Employee for purposes of computing the leave entitlement and
availment of leave, shall be the 12 month period commencing from the first date of the month in which an Employee has
joined the Company. For example, in the case of an Employee who joined on 10.04.2012 the ‘leave year’ shall be regarded
as 1st April 31st March in any year.
(d) Leave for hospitalization to employees applicable, shall be strictly on providing a diagnosis card from a registered Hospital
along with the relevant medical certificates in proof of such hospitalization which is acceptable to the employer.
10. Purchase of unavailed of leave.–  (a) At the end of the ‘Leave Year’ of each Employee, the Employer shall make payment to
each Employee in respect of unaviled of Casual and Sick Leave in the following manner :-
(i) Up to 10 days of unavailed of leave – payment at the rate of 1 1/4 day’s salary for each day
(ii) In excess of 10 days of unaviled of leave (to whom applicable) payment at the rate of 1 1/2 days salary for each
additional day in excess of 10 days.
(iii) leave granted for Hospitalization under paragraph 9 a (ii) above will not be considered for payment of unavailed of leave
whatsoever.
Provided however that an employee who does not u tilise his full quota of Casual and /or Sick leave may utilise in respect
of an infectious disease hereunder identified, such number of days of Causal and / or Sick leave not untilised during the
immediately preceding 2 years, regardless of such employee having obtained payment on account of such unavailed of
leave. For example, if in the years 1998 and 1999 and employee has saved 10 days sick leave, he will , in addition to the
payment he receives in respect of such 10 days, be premitted in 2000 to utilise 10 days leave with pay in the event of
an infectious disease.
(b) If an employee has exhausted his Casual and Sick leave entitlement at the time the employeee contracts an infectious disease
and has no leave saved in the two previous years, such absence will be treated as approved leave without pay.
(c)  ‘Infectious diseases’ for the purpose of the aforesaid proviso shall mean Chicken pox, Measles and Mumps only. All Leave
applied for under this proviso will have to be supported by medical certificates acceptable to the Employer.
11. Shift Allowance.– Employees shall be paid as follows :
11.1 2nd shift.– For each 2nd shift worked, Rs.. 20/- will be paid subject to the following
11.1.1 Employee should report to all 2nd shifts without absence.
11.1.2 This payment will be calculated on a weekly basis. One day’s (annual holiday) leave with prior approval during the
2nd shift in any calendar months will be allowed for this payment. No other category of leave will be considered for
payment of the 2nd shift allowance.
11.1.3  This payment will be made monthly and will be included in the relevant month’s salary.
11.2 3rd Shift .– 11. 2.1 If only 50% or less of the available night shifts are worked within any calendar month, the
allowance will be Rs. 85/- per shift
Eg. If the available night shifts are 12 days and if 6 or less days are worked in the night shift such employee’s shift
allowance will be calculated at the rate of Rs. 85/- X number of days worked.
11.2.2 Every additional night shift worked will be at the rate of Rs. 120/-
In addition, if all night shifts in a month are worked a night shift bonus will be paid as follows :
(i) In a month where there are 6-9 night shifts (both days inclusive) available – Rs. 300/-, if all night shifts are
worked.
(ii) In a month where there are 10-12 night shifts (both days inclusive) available – Rs. 500/-, if all night shifts are
worked.

<!-- page 27 -->

27 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
12. Production Bonus. -  Employees covered and bound by this Agreement shall be entitled to a monthly production bonus
calculated in accordance with the rules laid down in the Third Schedule hereof, with effect from the date of signing hereof.
13. Grading of Employees.- The Employer shall carry out a re-grading exercise in respect of its maintenance employees as and when
deemed necessary.
The Union may raise with the Management any dispute arising out of such re-grading and any such dispute shall be dealt with und er the
provisions of Clause 18 hereof.
14. Batta Rates.– Employees who an any day are required to leave their satation on work and cannot return to station before 2.00
p.m. in the First Shift, 3.00 p. m. in the general Shiftt and 8.00 p.m. second shift will be paid Rs. 150/- by way of Batta in respect of such
day.
15. Uniforms.– All Employees will be issued with three sets of uniforms per year and shall be required to wear them during their
working hours. The employees will be provided with two cakes of soap per month for the washing of the Uniforms provided by the
company.
16. Meal Tokens.– Employees who are required to work overtime for any period in excess of four hours beyond their normal shift
will be entitled to receive a meal token the value of which will be determined by the management depending on the rates agreed with the
service provider. The meal token value will automatically change from time to time on the rates to be agreed with the service provider. This
meal token cannot be en-cashed under any circumstances.
In addition a short-eat will be provided, to the employees in the night shift at 2.00 a.m. at the discretion of the management.
17. Levels of Production.– It is agreed by and between the parties to this Agreement that the Collective and/ or individual production
levels issued to employees will be achieved and maintained by employees.
The work norms in respect of employees where contracts of employment set out such norms shall however continue to apply to
them.
(a) The Employer will have the right to revise the production and/or incentive targets in the context of the introduction of
additional or new machinery, changes in technology and/ or work procedures.
(b) Such revisions will be done in consultation with the Union. In the event of arising of any dispute regarding the revision of
minimum production levels and/ or incentive targets, parties agree to have the matter in dispute referred to the Textile
Training and Services Centre or any other recognised institution. The decision of such body shall be final and binding on
both parties. Parties shall accordingly comply with such findings and a refusal to work accordingly by employees shall
constitute misconduct.
(c) Production norms applicable to employee are set out in schedule 4 hereto.
18. Disputes Settlement Procedure.– It is agreed by and between the parties that any Industrial dispute that may occur on a matter
not covered by this agreement between the Employer and the Union and/or the Employees during the pendency of this Agreement shall be
dealt with in the manner set out hereunder.
(i) The Branch Union or the Employees shall at the outset raise such dispute with the Employer and both parties shall
endeavour to reach a satisfactory settlement of the dispute through consultation.
(ii) In the event of there being no settlement after consultation between parties, the Union shall raise the dispute with the
Employer’s Federation of Ceylon of which the Employer is a member and the Union and the Federation shall through
consultation with all parties attempt to reach a satisfactory settlement.
(iii) Should there be no satisfactory outcome of the attempts at settlement by the Union and the Employer’s Federation of
Ceylon, the union may seek the intervention of the Commissioner of Labour to settle the dispute in accordance with the
provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
(iv) If after the conciliation has failed in the Labour Department, the Union wishes to take trade Union action, written notice
should be given of not less than 21 days to the Employer’s and the Federation of Ceylon.

<!-- page 28 -->

28 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
General
19. The intervals of Employees will remain unchanged.
20. The Union and the employees jointly and severally agree that they shall not, during the pendency of this Agreement, resort to
any form of Trade Union action in respect of any matter covered by this Agreement.
21. It is further agreed by and between parties that neither party will, during the pendency of this Agreement, attempt in any manner
to change, vary, amend in any form, the terms or conditions set out in this Agreement, other than by way of mutual agreement.
22. If during the continuance in force of this Agreement, the Government prescribes increase in salary by any written Law,
applicable to the Company, the Employer shall be entitled to take credit for the increases granted in terms of this Agreement. However, if
the Government recommends increase in wages, such recommendations will not be applicabe to the Employer and the Employees.
23. The Employer, the employees and the Union jointly and severally agree to co-operate with each other towards continuous
improvement and commitment to quality through team work in the Employer’s establishment.
24. In the event of any inconsistancy between the English and the Sinhala texts of this Agreement, the English text shall prevail.

<!-- page 29 -->

29 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
IN WITNESS HEREOF PARTIES HAVE SET THEIR HANDS ON THIS TWENTY FIFTH (25th) DAY OF JULY TWO THOUSAND AND TWELVE (2012) AT COLOMBO.

<!-- page 30 -->

30 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 31 -->

31 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
SECOND SCHEDULE (continued)
1. The salary for the calculation of the bonus shall be the salary drawn by the respective employee in the last month of Financial Year
in respect of which bonus is payable.
2. An employee who is absent in excess of his leave entitlement for a period of six (06) or more days will not be eligible to receive this
bonus and it shall not be paid to such employee.
3. Subject to the number of days absent in excess of an employee's leave entitlement in any one year the employer shall be entitled to
make deductions from the bonus payable to an employee in the under noted manner:
1 day in excess of leave entitlement  - 5% of declared bonus
2 days in excess of leave entitlement  - 12 1/2% of declared bonus
3 days in excess of leave entitlement  - 22 1/2% of declared bonus
4 days in excess of leave entitlement  - 35% of declared bonus
5 days in excess of leave entitlement  - 50% of declared bonus
Any period of no pay leave of an employee with the approval of the management will not be regarded as absence for the above computation.

<!-- page 32 -->

32 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 33 -->

33 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
3A – G 17430

<!-- page 34 -->

34 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 35 -->

35 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 36 -->

36 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 37 -->

37 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 38 -->

38 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 39 -->

39 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 40 -->

40 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 41 -->

41 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 42 -->

42 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 43 -->

43 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
1.0)
2.0)
2.1)

<!-- page 44 -->

44 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 45 -->

45 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 46 -->

46 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 47 -->

47 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 48 -->

48 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 49 -->

49 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
4A – G 17430

<!-- page 50 -->

50 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 51 -->

51 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 52 -->

52 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 53 -->

53 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 54 -->

54 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013


<!-- page 55 -->

55 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
03 - 1130

<!-- page 56 -->

56 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
My No.: CI/1778
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Collective Agreement entered into between Trelleborg Wheel Systems Lanka (Pvt) Limited, No. 45 BEPZ, Walgama, Malwana of the one
part and the Free Trade Zones and General Services Employees Union, No. 141, Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha, Colombo 10 of the other part
on 30th day of May 2012 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956).
V. B. P. K. WEERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
21st February, 2013.
Collective Agreement No. 17 of 2012
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
TRELLEBORG WHEEL SYSTEMS LANKA PVT LIMITED, WALGAMA, MALWANA.
AND
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT-CHAPTER 131
2009 - 2013
Table of Contents
SECTIONS Page Ref.
Section 1 : Basic Provisions 2
Section 2 : Basic Rights and Obligations of Contracting Parties 3-4
Section 3 : Employment Area 5-10
Section 4 : Payroll 11-16
Section 5 : Health and Safety at work and Prevention of Occupational Accidents 17
Section 6 : Facilities and Concession granted by the Company 18-19
Section 7 : Educational & Training 20
Section 8 : Discipline 21
Section 9 : Relations between the Employer and the Trade Union 22-24
ANNEXURES Page Ref.
Section 1 : Production Incentive 25-26
Section 2 : Allowances 27
Section 3 : Benifits/ Loans 28-31
Section 4 : Code of Discipline 32-35

<!-- page 57 -->

57 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
Section 5 : Disciplinary Procedure 36-40
Section 6 : Types of Misconduct 41-42
Section 7 : Format of letters-Authorization/ Revocation- for check off 43
Final Provisions 44
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made on 30th day of May Two Thousand Twelve pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between
TRELLEBORG WHEEL SYSTEMS LANKA (PVT) LIMITED, and having its registered office at No. 45 BEPZ, Walgama, Malwana
(hereinafter referred to as “the Company/ Employer”) of the ONE PART and FREE TRADE ZONES AND GENERAL SERVICES
EMPLOYEES UNION, a trade union duly registered under the provisions of the Trade Unions Ordinance and having its registered office at
No. 141, Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha, Colombo 10 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union”) of the OTHER PART, witnesseth and it is hereby
agreed between the parties as follows :
Section 1 - Basic Provisions
1.1. Purpose and Contents of the Collective Agreement. –  1.1.1. This Collective Agreement (hereinafter referred as the
Agreement”) regulars the relationship between the Employer and the Union and its members as well as between the Employer and th e
Employees, and determines rights and obligations of the agreed parties unless otherwise stipulated further on. The Agreement is in conformity
with respective provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.
1.2. Purpose of Agreement. – 1.2.1. In order strengthen positive relations of the Employees of Trelleborg Wheel Systems Lanka
(Pvt.) Ltd., and to strengthen partner relations between the Employer and the Union, both parties shall obligate themselves to settle problems
that may arise by discussions, aiming at achieving an agreement between the parties.
1.3. Date of Operation and Duration. – 1.3.1. This Agreement shall be effective retrospectively from the Fifth Day of December
Two Thousand and Nine (05.12.2009) and shall thereafter continue in force until Thirty first day of December Two Thousand and Thirteen
(31.12.2013), unless it is determined by either party giving one month’s notice in writing to the other. Either party shall be at liberty to repudiate
this Agreement by giving one month’s notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act, (This agreement is signed for 4
years in this instance).
1.3.2. The Agreement shall cover and bind all Manual Employees of the Trelleborg Wheel Systems Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. who are
members of the Union.
1.3.3. For the purpose of collective bargaining, the union shall be treated as the ‘bargaining agent”.
1.4. Parties Bound. – 1.4.1. This Agreement shall, Subject as hereinafter provided, bind the Employer and Manual Employees of
the company who are members of the union.
Section 2 - Basic Rights and Obligations of Contracting Parties
2.1. Non - discrimination .–   2.1.1 Both parties shall not discriminate any of the Employees for reasons of gender, race, religion, age,
disability, sexual orientation, nationality, political opinions or social or ethnic origin as justified claims under this Agreement or the
contract of employment.
2.2. Solution for Disputes .–  2.2.1  Disputes concerning this Agreement shall be settled under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes
Act. (Chapter 131.)
2.3. Responsibility of Employer .–    2.3.1   Respect the right of each Employee to become a member of the Union.
2.3.2 Prevent discrimination of Employees due to Union work.
2.3.3 Create material and organaizational conditions for activities of the Union, to the extent specified in this Agreement.

<!-- page 58 -->

58 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
2.4. Responsibility of the Union.–    2.4.1 The Union shall obligate itself that its activities shall be carried out so as not to disturb the
working time and not to restrict the activity of the Employer.
2.4.2 The information given by the Employer connected with the Company’s activity shall be considered confidential. The Union shall
obligate itself that such information shall not be published nor abused against the interests of the Employer.
2.5. General Terms and conditions of Employment and matters incidental and connected therewith.–  2.5.1  From the date hereof
and during the continuance in force of this Agreement, terms and conditions of this agreement shall be included, in all the contracts of
service between the Employer bound by this Agreement and an Employee covered and bound by this Agreement whether such
contracts of service be written or oral, which are subsisting as at the date hereof or which come into being during the continuance in
force of this Agreement.
2.5.2 ( a) The Union members who are employees covered and bound by this Agreement jointly agree with the Employer that during
the continuance in force of this Agreement, they will not seek to vary or add to all or any of the terms and conditions of the
employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered by and bound by this Agreement, or all or any of the
benefits presently enjoyed by any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
This will not apply to the attachments which will considered for annual negotiations.
(b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Employer agrees that it shall not seek to vary or add to all or any of the terms
and conditions of employment presently applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement, or all
or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by and of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than by
mutual agreement.
(c) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiation under provisions of clause (a) or (b) shall be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary
arbitration.
Section 3 - Employment Area
3.1. Probation .–  3.1.1   Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation not less than nine (9) months. At
the expiry of the nine (9) months probationary period if the Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee, the
probationary period shall be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employeee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been further extended. During the period of probation or extended
probation, the Employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the Employee without notice.
3.2. Transfers .–  3.2.1  Employee transfers shall take place based on the contract of employment and on the business needs of the
Company, and it will be at the discretion of the Company. A letter of transfer to the relevant Employee shall be issued once the transfer
is finalized.
 3.2.2 Where an Employee refuses to comply, the employer shall consider such action as an act of misconduct, and act according to the
provision of this agreement.
 3.2.3 Transfers will be done by taking into the suitability of the employee to handle the duties and responsibilities of the jo b. The
management will avoid handing over duties and responsibilities which are of lesser in nature in comparission to current job.
3.3. Retirement .–  3.3.1   All employees shall retire from service upon reaching the age of 55 years.
3.4. Hours of work .– 3.4.1 Employees who are working on a General Shift are required to work 45 hours a week excluding meal interval
and tea breaks. Hours of work and break times are as follows :-
Shift Working Hours Meal Break Spread Over
General 8.00 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. 12.00 p.m. to 1.00 p.m.
Saturday 8.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. After 1.00 p.m.
Employees who are working on a roster basis are required to work 48 hours a week including meal interval and tea breaks. Hours
of work and break times are as follows :-

<!-- page 59 -->

59 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
Rostered 7.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. 11.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.
7.00 p.m. to 7.00 a.m. 11.00 p.m to 12.00 a.m.
3.4.2 Employees are entitled to 1/2 hour meal interval to be taken during the specified break time. Employees are required to be at
their respective places of work at the stipulated time of commencement and shall not stop work or leave the workplace until
the stipulated closing time without prior permission from the Head of the Division. In addition to the 1/2 hour meal interval,
rostered employees will be allowed two rest breaks of 15 minutes each depending on the production cycles.
3.4.3 Working hours are fixed purely at the discretion of the Company and may be revised according to the needs of the business.
However, the Company will discuss the matter with the union and after reaching consensus the decision will be implemented
by the management.
3.4.4 An employee may be called upon to work beyond normal working hours as and when the necessity arises. Refusal to do so
without valid reason will be constituted as misconduct. Considering (calling) the earned off day for overtime payments should
be decided on the agreement of both parties.
3.4.5 Employees may be called upon to work on poya days and statutory holidays as and when the necessity arises. Employer shall
inform the Union of such requirements, 14 days prior to the poya day or statutory holiday. The Union shall inform the
employer of any disagreement within 7 days from the date communicated by the employer.
3.4.6 Employees are permitted to request for a maximum of three (3) changes per month in the shift with prior written approval of
the head of the division for educational purposes, holiday and Trade Union activities (which will be restricted only to members
of the Executive Committee). The covering arrangement should be done with an employee who has similar competence.
3.5 Annual Leave.-  3.5.1  In accordance to the legal requirement, employees shall be entitled to 14 days annual leave Employees have
to earn their annual leave by working the required number of days during the calendar year January to December.
3.5.2 Employees should avail their annual leave during the calendar year in which it is due and cannot accumulate for use in
subsequent years. A combination of annual leave and casual/ medical leave shall not be permitted except in exceptional
circumstances.
3.5.3 Employees shall agree to utilize 7 days of their annual leave during the plant shut down period. Employer shall pay production
incentive calculated on the average of the previous two months during the total shut down period. (This excludes the
maintenance division)
3.5.4 If an employee falls sick while on annual leave, the period of illness will be set off against the medical leave entitlement upon
producing a Medical Certificate. The employee shall be permitted to take the unavailed annual leave on a subsequent date.
3.5.5 Employees shall obtain prior approval for annual leave from the Head of the Division at least 4 days in advance. However,
granting of leave will be subject to the exigencies of service and on a first come first serve basis.
3.5.6 Employees are permitted to avail annual leave earned for the year during the period on notice/ prior to resignation. Annual leave
on resignation should be applied for in advance and should be duly approved by the Head of the Division.
3.6 Casual Leave.-  3.6.1  In addition to the legal requirement, the Employer grants 7 days leave as casual leave.
In the first year of employment (i.e.. January to December) employees are entitled to avail 1 day of casual leave for every
completed 2 months in employment. In the second year of employment, employees are entitled to the full casual leave
entitlement.
3.6.2. A maximum of 2 consecutive days of leave can be taken as casual leave. Employees shall not be entitled to take casual leave
proceeding or followed by annual leave. Leave application should be forwarded 24 hrs. in advance and should be approved by
the Head of the Division and forwarded to the HR division.
3.6.3. Leave will be granted based on the importance and urgency of the requirement. However, such applications may be refused
subject to exigencies of service. Failure to obtain prior approval shall result in deduction of attendance allowance. Failure to
adhere to this rule shall be treated as and act of misconduct.

<!-- page 60 -->

60 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
3.7 Unutilised Annual and Casual Leave . - 3.7.1  Any unutilized annual and casual leave shall be compensated in January of the
following year. Computation will be for the number of untilized annual and casual leave calculated based on the Basic Salary/ Wage of the
employer.
3.8 Medical Leave.-  3.8.1 In addition to the legal requirement, Employer grants medical leave as a privileged facility. Employees shall
be entitled for 7 days paid medical leave on confirmation in employment.
3.8.2 On the first day of absence and employee should , inform the Head of the Division by telephone, telegram of the reason for his/
her absence. Where the absence exceeds 3 days, a medical certificate should be forwarded along with the leave application form
to the Human Resources Division upon reporting to work. The leave period recommended by a medical certificate shall cover
all working days weekly holidays, statutory holidays, Poya days, etc. falling within that period. Only the working days shall
be deducted from the medical leave entitlement.
3.8.3 Employer shall accept medical certificates from the following practitioners.
(a) Western qualified medical practitioner registered with the Medical Council;
(b) Registered Ayurvedic physicians;
(c) Registered Homeopathic practitioners.
3.8.4 A medical certificate from a Private Medical Practitioner/ Ayurvedic Physician/ Homeopathic Practitioner shall be valid only
for a maximum continuous period of 14 days. If an extension of leave is required a medical certificate should be obtained from
a government hospital/ recognised private hospital or Government Medical Officer/ recognised Medical Officer employed in
a private hospital.
3.8.5 If an employee requires leave for communicable diseases such as Chicken Pox, Measles, Mumps and Sore Eyes, such an
employee is required to provide a DMO  certificate or Medical Certificate from Company Doctor, or PHI and leave in addition
to the 07 days medical leave entitlement will be granted as follows :
Chicken Pox and Measles 14 days
Mumps 07 days
Sore Eyes 03 days
3.8.6 Failure to adhere to the above conditions shall be considered as an act of misonduct and above leave will not be granted whilst
disciplinary action shall be taken accordingly.
3.9 Unutillised Medical Leave.- 3.9.1Any unutilised medical leave shall be compensated in January of the following year. Computa-
tion of payment will be for the number of unutilised medical leave calculated based on the Basic Salary/ Wage of the employee.
3.10 Statuary Holidays.-  3.10.1   The following statutory holidays shall be allowed each year as paid holidays
Statutory Holidays
Tamil Thai Pongal Day
National Day
Day immediately prior to the Sinhala and Tamil New Year Day
Sinhala and Tamil New Year Day
May Day
Day immediately succeeding the Weask Full Moon Poya Day
Prophet Mohamed’s Birthday
Chirstmas Day
3.10.2 Employees required to work on Statutory Holidays shall be employed on the normal roistered shifts and will be remunerated
according to the appropriate rate of pay.
3.11 Maternity Leave.- 3.11.1 Employees will be granted maternity leave as per the conditions stipulated in the Maternity Benefits
Ordinance.

<!-- page 61 -->

61 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
3.11.2 Employees availing their maternity leave should submit their leave application form supported with a medical certificate to
the Head of the Division for approval and forward same to the Human Resources Division. If an employee is unable to
submit her leave application form prior to her confinement, such an employee should forward the application form within 10
days of the confinement.
3.12. Duty Leave. – 3.12.1.  Duty leave shall be granted to the President, Secretary and 2 Office Bearers of the Union once in two months
to attend the Union meetings and the entire Executive Committee shall be granted duty leave once in two years to attend General Meeting.
3.12.2. Duty leave shall also he granted to Employees (except the accused employee) to attend Domestic Inquires, Industrial courts,
Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals.
3.13. Accident Leave. –  3.13.1. Accident Leave is granted to employees who meet with accident arising out of and in the course of
employment and where the said accidents is not due to willful default or negligence of the employees. Accident leave shall be
granted by the Human Resources Division based on the recommendations of the Safety Health and Environment Manager who
will make the decision after proper investigation.
3.13.2. If an accident occur due to a fault in the machine (which is decided by the Maintenance Manager, SHE Manager, HR Manager
and Department Manager) the machine will be stopped until priliminary investigations are completed.
3.12.3. Number of days leave to be granted will be decided on the recommendation of the Company Doctor or the District Medical
Officer.
3.14. Lieu Leave. –  3.14.1. An employee, who works for 24 hours, is entitled for a lieu leave within the next 24 hours.
3.15. Weekly Holiday. –  3.15.1.  General Shift employees are entitled to 1 1/ 2 days as weekly holiday after working 5 1/ 2 days.
Rostered employees are entitled to 2 days of weekly holidays after working 4 days (12 hours each)
3.15.2. General Shift employees (8.00 a.m.-4.30 p.m) who work on the weekly half holiday (1/ 2) will be remunerated 1 1/ 2 times their
normal hourly rate of pay, and 2 times the hourly rate of pay for work done on the weekly holiday (01 day).
3.15.3. It is unlikely an employee is required to continue overtime work for another shift of 12 hours, after the rostered normal shift.
The employees will be allowed 2 hours rest during the overtime shift.
(a) Rostered workers (12 hours shift) who work on first off day the number of hour worked will be doubled and paid at normal
overtime hourly rate.
(b) For those who work on the second off day the number of hours worked will be calculated by the normal OT hourly rate.
3.16. Half Day. –  3.16.1. Half day refers to the whole morning session or the whole afternoon session separated by the lunch interval
for employees working on general shift. Employees working on rosters shift are not permitted to avail 1/ 2 days leave. However
in an emergency, leave shall be granted at the discretion of the Head of the Division.
3.17. Special leave for natural disasters. – 3.17.1.The employer at its total discretion may consider granting special leave for Employees
affected by natural disasters.
3.17.2. Employees affected by natural disasters should notify the Employer regarding the disaster within 24 hours, and the Employer
after careful evaluation of the situation any consider granting special leave.
3.17.3. In the event of such a situation the employee will be liable to produce all necessary documents requested by the Employer,
before any consideration is extended for such special leave.
3.17.4. There is nothing herein contained to state that the Employer is bound to consider or compelled to grant special leave fo r
Employers affected by natural disasters, and any special leave granted will be at the absolute discretion of the Employer.

<!-- page 62 -->

62 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
Section 4 - Payroll
4.1. Remuneration. –  4.1.1. The Employer shall determine the salary of a new employee based on the experience and level of skills
required for the position. However, the minimum salary point of a monthly paid unskilled new employee will be :-
Basic Salary of Rs. 6,900/- and Rs. 1,000/- as the Budgetary Relief Allowance per month.
4.1.2. Salaries of employees shall paid on or before the 25th of each month. If the 25th falls on a non working day, salaries shall be
paid on the last working day before the 25th of the month.
4.1.3. Salaries shall be remitted to the employee’s bank account. Employees are required to open a savings account at a Bank
nominated by the Company and forward the particulars of the bank account to the Human Resources Division upon commence-
ment of employment. The Employer shall certify the account applicant form.
4.2. Salary For Periods Less Than One Month. –
4.2.1. For the purpose of this Agreement, salaries of any Employee for a period less than one month shall be computed in the
following manner. :-
a) One hour - Salary for a month divided by two hundred (200)
b) One day - Salary for a month divided by thirty (30)
c) One half day - A day’s salary ascertained as in (b) above divided by two (2) (Morning or Evening)
d) One week - A day’s salary ascertained as in (b) above multiplied by Seven (7)
4.3. Salary / Wage Compensation during down time. –
 4.3.1. During down time due to lack of customer orders temporary failure,
employees shall be entitled to compensation in the form of Basic Salary/ Wage and Cost of Living for the corresponding
number of shifts/days they were unable to work due to this reason, provided they have not been assigned to do any other work.
4.3.2. Where the Employer assigns Employees with other reasonable work within the working contract, due to above mentioned work
interruption, such Employees will be paid based on the Basic Salary, Cost of Living and the average Incentive of the Division
for the last three months. In such instance Employees have to accept the work assigned, by their Head of the Division which
will be in line with the current designation and responsibilities.
4.4. Overtime .–  4.4.1 Work performed in excess of the normal hours of work specified shall consititute as overtime.
4.4.2 Employees working overtime on a normal working day shall be paid at the rate of one and a half times (1 1/2) of the hourly rate
of pay as authorized overtime. The hourly rate of pay shall be determined by dividing the monthly wage by two hundred.(200).
4.4.3 Employees working overtime on a Poya Day, in addition to the legal requirement, shall be paid on the basis of multipling the
hours worked by two, and calculating at 1 1/2 time the hourly rate. The hourly rate of pay shall be determined by dividing the
monthly wage by two hundred.(200).
4.4.4 Employees working overtime on a Statutory Holiday, shall be paid on the basis of multipling the hours worked by two, and
calculating at 1 1/2 time the hourly rate. The hourly rate of pay shall be determined by dividing the monthly wage by two
hundred.(200)
Employees working on off days will be paid according to clause 3.15.2 of this agreement.
4.4.5 Employees who are rostered to work on Sunday, (which is prescribed as the weekly holiday in the wages board applicable to
the tyre manufacturing industry) will be paid 1 1/2 times the hourly rate by dividing by two hundred(200) as practiced presently.
4.5.  Non Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity (NRCOLG).- 4.5.1 Employees shall be paid NRCOLG as per annexure number (2) of
this agreement and the ceiling will be Rs. 16,000/-.

<!-- page 63 -->

63 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
4.5.2 A new Employee shall be eligible for NRCOLG from the day he/ she commences employment. The NRCOLG for the first
month in employment shall be paid in the following month. Employee resigning from his/ her services shall be entitled for the
NRCOLG only up to the date of his/ her resignation.
4.5.3 NRCOLG shall not be regarded as a part of the wage of the employee for statutory purposes. I.e. EPF, ETF, Over time, Gratuity
etc.
4.5.4 Above mentioned NRCOLG has been frozen at Rs. 12,441/- as per the CCPI (N) index published by the government in May
2011 (Value per point = Rs.67). It is agreed that further revision of the NRCOLG will be discussed between the Company and
the Union once the government gazettes the new value of the index.
4.6.  Production Incentive.–  4.6.1 Employees who are permanent in employment shall be paid the Production Incentive based on the
Production target, production mix and quality. The production incentive shall be paid along with the salary. The Production Incentive
calculation table is listed in Annexture No. 1 of this Agreement.
4.7. Bonus.-  4.7.1  Employees shall be granted a bonus at the end of each year based on the following criteria:
(a) An Employee should be in permanent employment of the Company.
(b) An Employee should be in service for a minimum of 6 months.
 4.7.2 An Employee should not have unauthorized absence during the year, any unauthorized absence will be deducted from the
bonus as follows:
Basic Salary x 3 x no. of days No PAY
20
 4.7.3 Employees who have completed more than 6 months but less than 1 year of continuous permanent employment will be granted
bonus on a pro - rata basis. Employees with less than 6 months service period will not be paid any bonus. The employee should
be in the permanent service at the time.
 4.7.4 Company will follow the present bonus payment of 3 months salary, and in the event the company is unable to pay the bonus
of three months, both parties will discuss and resolve the issue amicably.
 4.7.5 In the event both parties fail to settle the issue amicably, both the company and the union agrees to settle the matter under the
dispute resolution method specified in this agreement.
4.7.6 The bonus payment shall be negotiable and the quantum of payment shall be based on the financial possibilities of the
Company.
4.8. Salary Revision.–   4.8.1 A revision of the salaries shall be done each year at the discretion of the Company. The quantum of
increase shall be discussed with the Union during the period of collective bargaining and will be decided upon after discussion.
4.9. Employee Provident Fund.–  4.9.1 The Employer and the Employee shall contribute to the Employees’ Provident Fund the mini-
mum rate prescribed by the Employees’ Provident Fund Act No. 15 of 1958.
4.10. Employees Trust Fund.–   4.10.1 The Employer  shall contribute to Employee’s Trust Fund, the minimum rate prescribed by the
Employee’s Trust Fund Act No. 40 of 1980.
4.11. Job Evaluation.–  4.11.1  The Company will conduct a job evaluation to categorise manual employees into different grades based
on knowledge. Skills and attitudes required for the job. The Union will be invited to participate in the job evaluation process.
4.11.2 Based on the Job Evaluation results, the company will propose to the Union - a new wage structure - which will recognize skill,
knowledge and attitudes required for each job.

<!-- page 64 -->

64 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
4.12. Attendance Allowance.-   4.12.1  Employees shall be granted an Attendance Allowance based on the following criteria.
(a) Employees should obtain prior written approval when availing leave.
(b) Employees should not have reported for work late for more than 15 minutes per month (workers of general shift 30 min. those
who dont have transport).
(c) Employees should not have availed no pay leave for the month. If no pay leave is availed the employees will not be entitled
to the attendance allowance.
(d) Employees should not have been liable for disciplinary action relating to attendance.
(e) Employees who do not report for work one day (1) without prior information, shall be liable to forfeit 50% of the monthly
attendance allowance.
(f) Where an employee is absent from work without informing for more than 1 day, the total amount will be deducted from this
allowance.
 4.12.2 The quantum of Attendance Allowance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of the Agreement.
4.13. Weekend/ Holiday Allowance.–  4.13.1  Employees are required to work on Saturday and/ or Sunday to be entitled for the
Weekend Allowance. A minimum of 8 hours have to be worked to claim the full payment of the weekend Allowance and 4 hours to claim half
payment of the Weekend Allowance.
4.13.2 Employees working on the general shift for more than 5 hours on a Saturday or 8 hours on a Sunday shall be entitled to the full
payment of the weekend allowance. Where an employee continues the shift he/ she shall be permitted to claim the same amount
of the Weekend Allowance during the continued shift.
4.13.3 The quantum of Weekend if Holiday Allowance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of this Agreement.
4.14. Night Shift Allowance.–  4.14.1. Employees who work on the night shift (from 7.00 p.m. to 7.00 a.m.) will be paid a Night Shift
Allowance.
4.14.2. The quantum of Night Shift Allowance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of this Agreement.
4.15. Poya day Statutory Holiday Allowance. –
 4.15.1.  Employees who work on a Poya day/ Statutory holiday shall be paid the Poya
day/ Statutory Holiday Allowance. Where an employee continues the second shift, such an employee shall be paid a further full day’s
payment of the Poya day/ Statutory Holiday Allowance.
4.15.2. The quantum of Poya day/ Statutory Holiday Allowance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of this Agreement.
4.16. Washing Allowance. – 4.16.1.  Employees covered by this agreement - who receive uniforms, will be paid a washing allowance.
4.16.2. The quantum of Washing Allowance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of this Agreement.
4.17. Drivers Subsistence. –  4.17.1.  Drivers are provided subsistance for over night stay and day trips.
4.17.2. The quantum of Drivers subsistance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of this Agreement.
4.18. Recognition of period of service with the Company. –  4.18.1.  The Employer shall reward Employees who have been employed
with the Company in the following manner. The payment shall be made in the month the Employee completes his or her period of service.
Period of Service Amount
25 years Rs. 20,000/-
20 years Rs. 10,000/-
15 years Rs. 7,500/-
10 years Rs. 5,000/-

<!-- page 65 -->

65 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
4.19. Special Transport Allowance. – 4.19.1.  Employees will be paid a Special Transport Allowance the month of December in order
to compensate the allowance paid for tyres and tubes.
4.19.2. The quantum of the Special Transport Allowance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of this Agreement.
4.20. Salary Advance. –  4.20.1. A fixed rate of Rs. 6,000/- shall be paid as a Salary Advance on the 10th of each month by way of a
bank transfer.
4.20.2. A cash advance will be allowed only in exceptional circumstances subject to approval by the respective Head of Division
and authorization of the Director - Human Resources.
4.21. Festival Advance. – 4.21.1. Permanent employees shall be granted a Festival Advance in April or December and shall be
recovered in 10 monthly installments.
4.21.2. The quantum of the Festival Advance is listed in Annexture No. 2 of this Agreement.
Section 5 - Safety work and prevention of occupational accidents
5.1 Employer will work towards providing a safe work environment to Employees with a view to minimizing adverse incidents in
health and safety (to avoid accidents and injuries during work).
5.2 Employer shall avoid using chemicals known to be as a risk to health, bear a viable replacement if available and shall identify
toxic and hazardous chemicals. Instructions with regard to method of toxic chemicals or chemicals which are hazardous, will
be displayed in areas where such chemicals are used. Employer shall provide necessary protective and safety equipments, to
Employees.
5.3 Employees will be educated with regard to hazardous chemicals and protective gear to be used. Instructions indicating where,
when and what protective gear to be used will be displayed in the required areas. All employees should be equipped with
protective and safety gears during the entire time of their activity in specified areas and at specified machines.
5.4 Employees will be educated with regard to startup, stopping of machines and work instructions, and guidelines relating to same
will be displayed at every machine.
5.5 Employer, will ensure that machines are equipped with emergency stops, safety devices, protective guards, and fences, and the
electrical installation and wiring are safe and secured.
5.6 Any employee activity leading to disabling or overcoming of safety and protective devices installed at machines, equipment,
buildings or other facilities will be considered as violence of safety rules, endangering safety and health of all employees and
Company property and will result in disciplinary action.
5.7 Scrap materials will be collected in seperate demarcated area and will be disposed in an environment friendly manner.
Employees shall avoid spillage of oil, chemicals and solvents.
5.8 All Employees are required to adhere to instructions with regard to Health & Safety. Employee not following such instructions
shall be liable for disciplinary action.
Section 6 - Facilities and concession granted by the employer
6.1 Canteen Operations.-  6.1.1  Employer will offer all Employees meals whilst on duty on all working days including Saturdays and
Sundays.
6.1.2 Employee will grant Employees, two main meals free of charge during the 12 hour working cycle. In addition to the main
meals, snacks. will be served during the 15 minute rest periods.
5A – G 17430

<!-- page 66 -->

66 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
6.1.3 Providing meals shall be based on the needs of the Company and the operating time of the canteen shall be decided by the
Company.
6.2 Annual Trip.-  6.2.1 The Company shall grant an annual trip, with a night stay, only for the employees. The Company shall bear
all expenses of the trip.
6.3. Sports .-  6.3.1  The Company shall sponsor clothing, tournament fees, ground fees and shall provide sports equipment,
refreshments, soft drinks etc. to Employees taking part in cricket, and volleyball. The above will include expenses incurrent at practices and
tournaments.
6.3.2 However such activities should not disrupt the smooth functioning of the Company.
6.4 Medical Facility/ Surgical & Hospital Expenses Insurance.-  6.4.1 OPD facility is provided to employees and his/ her
immediate family members, Employees are permitted to claim 10% from the annual basic salary up to a maximum limit of Rs. 13,000/- per
annum.
6.4.2. Employees will be covered by a Surgical and Hospital Expenses Insurance cover to the value of Rs. 40,000/- per annum.
Married employees will be eligible to submit claims for their spouse and children below the age of 21 year, and unmarried
employees will have the facility for themselves only.
6.5 Personal Accident Insurance.-  6.5. Personal Accident.- A 24 hours Personal Accident Insurance cover will be provided to
Employees locally. This insurance will cover accidents resulting bodily injuries and death at work and away from work. Employees shall be
paid a proportionate payment on partial disability and full amount on permanent diability. Any cost incurred by the Company  on  behalf
of the employee as a  result of the accident will be deducted from the insurance claim.
6.6 Loans.-  6.6.1  Long Term Loans
Employees shall be granted Long Term loans based on the financial position of the Company. The loan amount and the terms
and conditions are listed in Annexture No. 3 of the Agreement.
6.6.2 Short Term Loans
Employees shall be granted Short Term Loans based on the financial position of the Company. The loan amount and the
terms and conditions are listed in Annexture No. 3 of the Agreement.
6.7 Benefits.-  6.7.1  Employer shall provide Employees with other semi financial benefits as listed in Annexture No. 3 of this
Agreement.
Section 7 - Education and training
7.1 The Employer shall provide Education and Training in accordance with the business needs in the following areas.
(a) Safety, health, fire protection and ergonomics of work
(b) Quality requirements, technological demands and restrictions
(c) Performance tools for achieving performance at all levels
(d) Further education of Employees according to their professional qualifications skills and abilities with an aim to train
on problems relating to management practices, production, technical, technological, economic and social development
of the Company.
(e) Training Employees according to respective standards regulations and knowledge of employees
(f) Language and computer courses based on the needs.
7.2 The employees shall participate in such educational training programs and failure to do so will be considered as an act of
misconduct. Employees will be excused in case they have a valid reason and should be approved by the HR manager.

<!-- page 67 -->

67 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
Section 8 - discipline
8.1 Work Discipline.-   8.1.1  Basic rules of Trelleborg Wheel Systems Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd.
(a) Since the Company produces rubber products with a high fire risk factor, employees are required to strictly adhere to the
fire protection rules.
(b) Protect the Company property.
(c) Strict adherence to Company Code of Discipline listed in Annexture No. 4 of this Agreement
(d) Adhere to safety rules and regulations.
(e) Respect Managements decisions and Company targets.
(f)  Respect the quality, Products, technological and technical specifications
(g) Respect assigned duties and responsibilities in terms of relevant Job Description.
8.2 Disciplinary Action.-  8.2.1 The need for disciplinary action arises as a result of employees acting in breach of their contracts of
employment by committing acts of misconduct, which by implication are, not tenable with their position as employees not adhering to the
Company rules and regulations shall be liable for disciplinary action.
8.2.2 Where an employee does not conduct him/herself in accordance with his/her obligations and duties, expressed or implied,
arising from his/ her employment, during or out of working hours at his/ her work place or elsewhere, when representing the
company, shall constitute as misconduct. Types of Misconduct is listed in Annexture No. 6 of this Agreement.
8.2.3. The disciplinary procedure is listed in Annexture No. 5 of this Agreement.
Section 9- Relations between the Employer and the trade union
9.1 Basic Provisions.-    9.1.1   The Employer obligates himself to respect the basic Trade Union rights
(a) Become Trade Union members
(b) Recruit new members
(c) Give relevant information to their members
(d) Meeting and activities should only be with the prior written approval of the Company
(e) Carrying out meetings of the Union in the Company should only be with the prior written approval of the company.
9.1.2  The Union hereby undertakes in respect of all the terms and conditions of employment covered by this Agreement not to
seek to vary or alter any such terms or conditions other than by negotiation during the operation of this Agreement and
hereby expressly undertakes, not to engage in a strike or other form of trade union action in respect of a dispute but will have
such dispute settled in accordance with the procedure set out in this Agreement. In the event of illegitimate action by the
Company to jeopardies union activity, this clause may not apply.
9.1.3 In case the Union decides to call for a general stoppage of work/ strike in solidarity of other companies by its members, the
Union will give prior written notice to the Employer of the work stoppage that is to take place, and will give its reasons
thereof. The Union will endeavor to give prior written notice to the Employer, of the date of the stoppage, or even longer
notice, between the date of the Union’s decision to call for a general stoppage, of work and the date fixed for the stoppage,
in the circumstances in which such a stoppage may be decided upon. In such case, the Union will also instruct its members
to exempt an agreed number of members from the work stoppage, in order to provide the Employer with a skeleton staff,
in order to maintain essential services.
9.1.4 In the event of any dispute arising concerning any matter not covered by this agreement, the Union shall give prior written
notice to the Employer of any Trade Union Action that is to take place and will give its reasons thereof.
9.2 Dispute Procedure.-  9.2.1.  It is hereby agreed that the procedure to be followed for the settlement of a dispute shall be as follows.
(a) Where a dispute is arises between an Employee and the Employer, the Employee, in the first instance shall raise the
matter through the Union Officials of the Company and both parties shall endeavour to effect an amicable settlement.

<!-- page 68 -->

68 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(b) In the event of a dispute not being settled, or in the case of a dispute between the Union and the Employer, the Union may,
raise the matter with the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon and there upon all steps shall be taken by the Union and the
Employer’s Federation of Ceylon  for an amicable settlement of the matter in dispute utilising if desired, the offices of the
Conciliation Division of the Department of Labour.
(c) In the event of a dispute not being resolved or settled under the preceding paragraphs (a) or (b) or in the case of a dispute
between the Union and the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon, the parties shall agree a settlement of the matters in dispute
and such matter shall be referred to an Arbitrator or Arbitrators under section 3 (I) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act for
settlement, or by mutual agreement decide on a reference to a qualified mediator or body of mediators, However should
the parties fail to agree on a settlement of the issue in dispute for purposes of arbitration, each party shall furnish the
Commissioner of Labour with a statement setting out the issues in dispute and thereafter the Commissioner of Labour
shall set out the issues in dispute to be referred to the Arbitrator or Arbitrators.
(d) The Union may notify the EFC in writing with a statement of the matter in dispute that should be dealt with. After such
notification by the Union to the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon a Special Disputes Committee of the Employer’s
Federation of Ceylon shall endeavour to settle the dispute. If no settlement is effected within seven (7) days from the date
of the Union notifying the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon, the dispute shall be referred to the Commissioner of Labour
for settlement by arbitration as provided in (c) above, or if the Union or the Employer requests, the dispute shall be
referred to a Special Arbitrator for Settlement.
9.3 Union Meetings.-   9.3.1  The Employer shall hold a meeting to discuss pertinent issues with the Union Officials of the Company
once in every two (2) months.
9.4 Membership of Union / Check Off.-   9.4.1   “Union ” shall mean Employees bound by this Agreement and in whose establishment
the membership of the Union is not less than forty percent (40%) of persons employed in the relevant category.
9.4.2 If it becomes necessary to decide whether the membership of the Union is not less than forty percent (40%) of persons
employed by the Employer in the category covered by this Agreement, the same shall be determined by a referendum which
shall be held by the Department of Labour and the result of such referendum shall be binding on the parties hereto.
9.4.3 The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the pay the current monthly Union dues payable
monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure.
9.4.4 Every Employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his pay shall sign a statement to that effect as per
Annexture No. 7 Format 1.
9.4.5 Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
as per Annexture No. 7 Format 2.
9.4.6 No variation in the monthly deductions by way of check-off shall be made by the Employer except by mutual agreement
with the Union and member concerned. In the event of any variation being agreed, each member will need to signify his
agreement to the revised amount being deducted by way of check-off by signing a fresh authorisation to that effect.
9.4.7 Deductions under as authorization shall commence from the pay, immediately after the date of receipt of such authorization and
shall continue thereafter until the authorization is canceled by a revocation.
9.4.8 The Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check - off in any month if the deduction by way of check
off will together with all other deductions from an Employees pay in that month exceed the deductions permitted by law.
9.4.9 ( a) The Employer shall once a month within fifteen (15) days after the regular pay day remit to the Treasure of the Union the
total sums deducted by way of check off by a cheque drawn payable to “Free Trade Zones and General Services
Employees’ Union” and crossed Account Payee.
(b) The cheque shall be sent at the Union’s risk, by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to the “ The Treasure, Free Trade
Zones and General Services Employee’ Union, No. 141, Ananda Rajakaruna Mawatha, Colombo 10".

<!-- page 69 -->

69 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(c) The Treasurer of the Union shall acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(d) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
actuall deductions made.
9.4.10 The Employer may suspend the operation of this clause by specifying the reasons for such action by written notice to the Union:-
(a) If the Union resorts to a strike or any other form of trade union action in breach of the terms of provisions of this Agreement,
the Employer may suspend the operation of this clause for such time as maybe decided by the Employer but not exceeding
the duration of such strike or other form of trade union action. Before such a decision is made the Employer and the Union
shall endeavour to effect an amicable settlement.
(b) If the Union fails to maintain itself as a properly registered Trade Union under the Trade Unions Ordinance, the Employer
may decide to suspend the operation of this clause for such time as may be required.
Production Incentive
 1.1 Solid Tyre Division - Production Incentive.-  1.2 A new incentive scheme will be introduced in future. Until such time, the
employees of the Maintenance Division will be paid the production incentive.


<!-- page 70 -->

70 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
1. Annexure No. :2
Allowances
The quantum of allowances from year 2011 is as follows.
2.1 Attendance Allowance - Rs. 750/ - per month
2.2 Weekend/ Holiday Allowance - Rs. 45/ - for Saturday and Rs.65/- for Sunday
2.3 Night Allowance - Rs. 150/ - per shift
2.4 Poyaday/ Statutory Holiday Allowance - Rs. 450/ - per day
2.5 Washing Allowance - Rs. 400/ - per month
2.6 Drivers Subsistence - Rs. 500/ - for over night stay and Rs. 350/ - for return journey
2.7 Festival Advance - Rs. 10,000/ -
2.8 Special Transport Allowance (Tyre & Tube) - Rs. 350/ -
2.9 Non Recuring Cost of Living - Frozen at Rs. 12,441/- (as per May 2011 CCPI (N) index)
Gratuity (NRCOLG)
2.10 Transport allowance on down time - Rs. 350/ - per day
2.11 Shutdown allowance for maintenance - Rs. 600/ - day will be paid during shut down period. This allowance will
include the payment of transportation
 Annexure No. : 3
Benefits and Loans
3.1 Uniform/ Soap.-  Employees will be provided with the following each year.
03 sets of uniforms to be worne while at work and 02 sets of uniforms to be worne while travelling to work will be issued to each
employee.
The Company will reserves the right to suspend or cancel the issuence of uniforms for the purpose of travelling to work, in the
event it is observed that employees fail to ware the uniform provided.
to revoke the issuance of uniform to travel in case the workers were observed to be not wearing the uniform.
06 pairs of socks.
In addition to the above the employees will be provided with the following each month.
02 bars of washing soap
02 cakes of soap.
3.2 Transport.-   Employees will be provided with transport to and from work. The Company will operate the transport system on fixed
routs and the maximum distance will be 40 km. The vehicles used for this purpose will be non - air conditioned.
3.3 Library Service.-  3.3.1 Library Services will be kept open on Mondays and Fridays from 1.00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m. Failure to return
library material on the due date shall subject to a penalty of Rs. 5/- per book per day.

<!-- page 71 -->

71 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
3.4. Holiday Bungalow.- 3.4.1  The resumption of the Holiday Bungalow facility which expired on 31st July 2009 will be made available
only when the Company sales volumes returns to the equivalent level of July 2008,which should also be proportionate to the
development of the production capacity.
3.4.2 The Company will reserve the target to provide this facility in the form of a holiday package or holiday bungalow depending on
the financial vicibility.
3.4.3 The Company will introduce ne guidelines for the use of this facility at the time of resumption.
3.5. Toy Voucher.-  3.5.1   Toy Vouchers will be granted to children of employees in December each year.
Age Amount
1 - 4 years Rs. 325/- per child
5 - 8 years Rs. 425/- per child
9 - 12 years Rs. 475/- per child
The Company will grant the toy voucher based on the age of each child declared by the employee, and as per the records
maintained by the Company.
3.6 New Year Gift Voucher.-  3.6.1  A gift voucher of Rs. 1,800/- and a currency note of Rs. 100/- will be given to each employee on 1st
January.
3.7 Sinhala/ Tamil New Year Gift .-  3.7.1 A gift voucher or a gift parcel to the value of Rs. 2,000/ - will be given to the employees for
the Sinhala/ Tamil New year.
3.7.2 The Company at its descreation, reserves the right to link any increase in the said value to performance targets to be achived
during the year.
3.8. Wedding Gift.-  3.8.1  The Company will grant Rs. 4,000/- in cash, as a Wedding Gift to an Employee getting married.
3.8.2 A sum of Rs. 4,000/- or company provided car for the wedding or home coming of an employee.
3.8.3 The employee will be required to produce the original marriage certificate to the wedding gift.
3.9 Diary and Calendar.-  3.9.1  Each employee wil be provided with a desk diary and two calendars at the end of each year.
3.10 School Book Vouchers.-  3.10.1 Employee’s children will be granted school book vouchers as follows:
Category of Grade Amount
Grade 4 Rs. 1140/-
Grade 5 Rs. 1200/-
Grade 6 Rs. 1,500/-
Grade 7 Rs. 1,575/-
Grade 8 Rs. 1,700/-
Grade 9 Rs. 1,820/-
Grade  10 Rs. 1,830/-
Grade 11 Rs. 1890/-
Grade  12 & 13 Rs. 1900/-
Urdergraduates Rs. 2075/-

<!-- page 72 -->

72 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
The Company will grant school book vouchers based on the age of each child declared by the employee and as per the records
maintained by the Company. The above amounts will come into effect from December 2011.
3.11 Funeral Expenses
Death of an Employee.-  3.11.1  In the event of a death of an employee, the Company will meet all expenses of the funeral including
the expenses of the 7 days alms giving. Employees will be granted 4 hours leave to attend the funeral of an employee.
3.11.2 However, if 4 hours is not adequate to attend the funeral, the union will make necessary arrangements to keep the plant i n
operation whilst employees attend the funeral.
Death of an Employee’s family member.-  3.11.3 The Company will grant a payment of Rs. 18,000/- in the event of a death of an
employee’s family member as described below. This amount will be paid with effect from 1 st of January 2010. Payments should be made
available when the death occurs and the death certificate ahould be produced within one month’s time. If the death certificate is not produced,
the donation amount will be deducted from employeed salary or any other dues
Married employees : Mother, Father, Spouse, Unmarried children, Mother-in-law and Father-in-law.
Unmarried employees : Mother and Father.
The original copy of the death certificate & other relevant documents should be submitted to claim the money.
3.12 Transport to attend a funeral of employee’s family member.-  3.12.1  The Company will provide a 35 seater passenger
vehicle if the distance is more than 50 k.m. from the Plant and a 15 seater van if the distance is less than 50 k.m from the Plant,
on one occasion.
3.13 Loan
3.13.1 Long Term Loans : - Employee shall be granted a loan of Rs. 150,000/- as a long term loan based on the following terms
and conditions : -
(a) The loan will be recovered in 60 monthly instalments.
(b) All other long term loans should be fully settled to obtain the loan.
(c) Maximum salary deduction should not be more than 40% of the basic salary + NRCOLG.
(d) Employee should have completed a minimum of 5 years of service with the company.
(e) Two employees who have completed 5 years of service with the company should sign as guarantors.
(f) Should be recommended by the Superior Office and approved by the Head of Division.
(g) Any unauthorised absence or warning letters issued during last 12 months will disqualify the employee from obtaining the
loan.
3.13.2 Short Term Loans : - A maximum sum of Rs. 35,000.00 (w.e.f. December 2010) shall be granted as a short term loan to
Employees  on the following terms and conditions : -
(a) The loan will be recovered in 12 monthly instalments.
(b) Maximum salary deduction should not be more than 40% of the basic salary + NRCOLG.
(c) Empolyee should have completed a minimum of 1 year of service with the company.
(d) Two employees who have completed 5 years of service with the company should sign as guarantors.
(e) should be recommended by the Superior Officer and approved by the Head of Division.
(f) Any unauthorised absence or warning letters issued during the last 12 months will disqualify the employee from obtaining
the loan.

<!-- page 73 -->

73 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
Annexure No. : 4
CODE OF DISCIPLINE
4.1 Conduct & Behaviour.-  4.1.1 Employees are expected to conduct themselves responsibly and not to act in any manner
prejudicial to the interests and good image of the Company.
4.1.2 Employees are required to observe the Company’s rules and regulations and provisions of this agreement and its
annexures. Such regulations may also be changed from time to time to ensure the relevance of regulations according to the
needs of the Company. Such changes will be discussed with the union before implementation.
4.2 Discrimination & Harassment.-  4.2.1    The Company prohibits unlawful discrimination or harassment of any kind on the part
of all employees, including discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, colour, veteran status, religion, gender, sex, age,
mental or physical disability, nationality, marital status, verbal, physical and visual harassment or any other characteristics
protected by law.
4.2.2 Where a complaint of retaliation is substantiated, approprate disciplinary action shall be taken not excluding termination of
services.
4.3 Company Assets & Confidentiality.-   4.3.1  All employees must maintain the confidentiality of business information. The
Company’s tools, equipment, facilities and inventories, as well as its know-how, technology, market information and business
plans, etc. are all valuable assets. It is the responsibility of every employee to preserve and protect the company’s assets and
confidential business information and to see that they are not misused or made available to outsiders in any manner that could be
detrimental to the interests of the company. This obligation of confidentiality applies while an employee is in service of the
Company.
4.4 Personal Use of Company Property.-   4.4.1 Employees shall not use company property, labour or information for personal
use without prior written approval of the company.
4.5 Conflict of Interest.-  4.5.1  A conflict of interest shall be when an employee or his/her family member has a direct or inderct
financial interest in, or receives any compensation/other benefit from, any individual or firm that sells material, equipment or
property to the Company, provides any service to the Company, has business dealings or contracual relations with the Company
or is engaged in a similar business or competes with the Company. Family members include spouses parents, children, siblings
and in-laws. Employees shall ensure that they do not engage in any activity that shall create a confilict of interest in the Company.
4.6 Respecting Each Other.-  4.6.1  An employees shall do his or her utmost to promote a respectful workplace culture that is free
of harassment, abuse (physical, verbal & visual), intimidation, biasness and discrimination of any kind.
4.7 Fair Competition.-  4.7.1 Employees shall treat customers and suppliers honestly and fairly and shall not make false, misleading
or disparaging remarks to customers or suppliers about other costomers/ suppliers or about competitors, their products or
services.
4.8 Commitment to Customers & Suppliers.- 4.8.1 Employees shall practice and promote high professional standards in carying out
his or her tasks and in his or her relationship with other employees, suppliers, customers, stakeholders and other persons dealing
with the Company.
4.8.2 Employees shall not accept bribes, inducements or unauthorized commissions from customers or suppliers. Acts of such
shall result in disciplinary action being taken according to the disciplinary procedures not excluding termination of
services.
4.9 The Environment.-  4.9.1 The Company requests all employees to have regard for the environment when carrying out their
duties.
4.10 Gifts and Entertainment.-  4.10.1 Employees or members of their families shall not accept gifts, services, discounts or
favours from those with whom the Company engages in business or intends engaging in business.
4.10.2 Employees may accept gifts of nominal value (calendars, appointment books, pens, etc) ordinarily used for sales promotion.
4.10.3 Where an employee receives a gift that does not fall within these guidelines, such an employee is required to report it to  his
or her superior and the gift shall be returned. If return of the gift is not practical, it shall be given to the Company for
charitable disposition or such other disposition, as the Company deems appropriate.

<!-- page 74 -->

74 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
4.11 Company Property.-  4.11.1  Employees shall take care of all Company property including tools, uniforms, machinery, vehicles
and ID cards. Employees shall not remove company property from its premises without proper authorization and shall report to
the Company of damage to property, losses, sabotage and evidence of theft.
4.12 Frauds and Thefts.-   4.12.1  Company prohibits fraudulent activity and establishes procedures to be followed to ensure that
incidents of fraud and theft relating to the Company are promptly investigated, reported and where appropriate prosecuted.
4.12.2 Fraudlent ac tivity can include actions committed by an associate that injure suppliers and customers, as well as those that
injure the Company, its shareholders and its associates.
4.12.3 Employees who suspect that any fraudlent activity may have occured shall immediately report such concern to the Human
Resources Director or the Human Resources Manager.
4.12.4 Such contact should occur before any action is taken with respect to the individual accused of perpetrating the alleged
business impropriety.
4.13 Workplace Violence.-  4.13.1  The Company is committed to provide all employees with a completely safe work environment
and shall not conform to any and all forms of workplace violence.
4.13.2 Employees shall not bring any sort of weapen to work or threaten violence of any kind and violation of this policy will
result in appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including termination of service.
4.14 Alcohol & Drugs.-  4.14.1  Consumption of or being under the influence of alcohol whilst on duty that will affect public
relations, safety in the workplace or the safety of customers, suppliers, guests and other staff or which shall violate law, shall
result in termination of service.
4.15 Behaviour.-   4.15.1   All employees shall behave in a polite, respectful, cheerful and helpful manner tawards costomers, guest
and other staff at all times. Any act of harassment, abuse, misconduct shall lead to disciplinary action.
4.16 Grooming and Appearance.-  4.16.1  In order to present a positive, professional image, personal appearence, employees’ shall
be clean, neat and tidy at all times.
4.16.2 Hair, moustaches and beards shall be shaved, kept clean, neat and well groomed and uniforms and the company identity
cards shall be worn all times whilst on duty within Company premises.
4.17 Occupational Health and Safety.-  4.17.1  All employees shall :
(a) Not interfere with or misuse any item provided in the interests of safety.
(b) Follow safe work practices and encourage others to do the same.
(c) Know and comply with specific safety regulations affecting employee position.
(d) Not put oneself in danger.
(e) Were appropriate clothing and personal protective equipment.
(f) Use all safety devices.
(g) Report any hazards such as unsafe equipment, working conditions or work practices to a responsible officer of the
Company.
(h) Report all accidents, injury immediately to a responsible officer of the Company.
(i) Know the location of phones, first aid kits and fire extinguishers and know how to use them.
(j) Know the identity of the first aid attendant.
4.18 Smoking & Chewing Betel.-  4.18.1 Employees shall ensure the environment at the workplace does not endanger the health,
safety or welfare of any employees. Employees on duty or in uniform shall smoke and chew betels in the designated smoking
arears provided by the company for this purpose.

<!-- page 75 -->

75 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
4.19 Unauthorised Use of Company Vehicles.-  4.19.1 Employees are not permitted to drive vehicles owned by the Company
without authorization. Vehicles belonging to the Company must not be used other than for authorised purposes and the person
entrusted with a vehicle shall ensure that unauthorised persons do not use or drive such vehicle. Any employee who contravenes
these requirements will be personally responsible for the consequences of his/ her action, including payment of all claims for
damages.
4.20 Private Business/ Other Employment.-  4.20.1  An employee shall not be engaged in any private business of his/ her own, or
be employed in any capacity or do any work or assignment elsewhere without the prior written approval of the Employer.
Employees are expected to devote their working hours exclusively for the execaution of their duties.
4.21 Publications/Interviews/ Press Releases.-  4.21.1  Employees shall not publish any determental article, book, photograph or
letter, give any interview or press release or deliver any lecture or speech on any matter which concerns their duties or the
business of the Company without the prior written consent of the Employer.
Annexure No :5
Disciplinary Procedure
5.1 Preliminary Investigations.-   5.1.1 Company shall conduct preliminary investigations and obtain written statements from the
complainant/s or witness/es in regard to the alleged act of misconduct committed or reported to have committed by an Employee.
5.1.2 In the event of theft, where a Security Officer makes any detection, such detection shall be immediately recorded in the
information book [IB]
5.1.3 After the conclusion of the preliminary investigation, the Investigation Officer shall submit an Investigation Report to the
Employer.
5.1.4 Where the charges relate to an attempt by the accused Employee to remove goods or articles, the relevant items shall be
clearly preserved, marked and sealed wherever possible in the presence of the accused Employee and an entry should be
made in the Police to that effect by the Security Officer or any relevant Officer.
5.1.5 A statement shall also be obtained from the accused Employee. If the employee refuses to make such a statement, he/ she
shall not be compelled to do so. In the event, an accused employee refuses to make a statement such fact shall be recorded
and endorsed by the Investigation Officer.
5.2 Show Cause Letter.-  5.2.1  Based on the preliminary investigation report, if disciplinary action is required, the Company shall
issue a show cause letter setting out the particulars of the charges of misconduct alleged against the Employee. Show cause letter shall set out.
(a) The approximate date, time and place the offence that has taken place,
(b) A time duration of 7 working days will be given to the Employee to submit his/ her explanation to the charges issued.
(c) An intimation to the Employee that if he/she fails to submit explanation by the said date, it would be presumed that he/
she has no cause to show and action would be taken.
5.3 Letter of Explanation.-  5.3.1 On receipt of the show cause letter the Employee concerned shall submit his/ her explanation to the
Company in writing within the specified period.
5.3.2 However, if an Employee requests for an extension of time to reply, the  Company may, where it deems such request is
reasonable, shall grant an extension.
5.3.3 If the Company is satisfied with the written explanation submitted by the employee such explanation, shall be accepted by
the Company.
5.3.4 If the company is satisfied with the explanation given by the employee concerned and if the Employee is under suspension,
he/she shall be reinstated and all emoluments and entitlements due to him/her during the period of suspension shall be paid.
5.3.5 If the Company is not satisfied and rejects the written explanation submitted by the employee, the Company shall
commence an inquiry  after receipt of the written explanation to the show cause letter.

<!-- page 76 -->

76 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
5.3.6  The Human Resources Division of the Company shall inform the Employee concerned and other relevant personnel of
the inquiry in writing.
5.3.7 The Company shall not be required to hold an inquiry where it proposes to warn an Employee in a situation where the
Employee admits to the charge/s.
5.3.8  If the Company does not receive any written explanation to the show cause letter, the inquiry shall be held ex-parte and
action shall be taken accordingly.
5.4 Suspension of work.- 5.4.1 The Company shall suspend an Employee with pay, half month pay or without pay :-
Pending an inquiry to be held by the Company on a charge/s of misconduct where such, charge/s relate/s to ;
(a) Fraud, theft, misappropriation or a like offence by the Employee in the course of employment
(b) Abuse, threat or gross insubordination relating to work by the Employee towards his supervisors
(c) Breach of peace, or damage to property, or disturbance of the business of the Company
(d) Charges which, in the opinion of the Company, shall warrant dismissal
5.4.2 The Company shall issue a written letter of suspension to the employee specifying the reasons for such suspension at the
time of suspension or within 24 hours thereof.
5.4.3  Nothing in the preceding sub-clause shall prejudice the right of Employees or the Union on his behalf to dispute an order
of suspension thereafter as provided in this Agreement.
5.5 Domestic Inquiry.-   5.5.1   The Company shall hold the inquiry or select an independent Inquiring Officer to hold the inquiry based
on the gravity of the misconduct. The name of the Inquiring Officer will be notified to the accused employee prior to the inquiry. A
Manager or an Executive of the Company or an external party may prosecute the case in order to facilitate the work of the Inquiring
Officer.
5.5.2 The accused Employee shall be permitted to be present in person throughout the proceedings. If he/ she is not present at the
commencement of the inquiry and no excuse has been submitted, the inquiry shall proceed ‘ex - parte’. Evidence shall be
recorded and relavant documents shall be marked. This procedure shall be followed in situations where an Employee withdraws
from proceedings without reasonable cause. Witnesses shall be granted duty leave to attend the domestic inquiry.
5.5.3 One inquiry or several inquiries shall be held where there is more than one accused employee in respect of the same charges or
there are several accused Employees charged with different offences in connection with the same transaction.
5.5.4 The accused Employee shall be allowed to represent himself/ herself or to be represented by a fellow Employee of equal rank,
as non - participatory observer, provided a request is made for such representation.
5.5.5 The Inquiring Officer shall read out the charges and inquire whether the Employee is guilty or not guilty. If the Employee pleads
guilty, he/she shall be asked whether he/ she has any statement to make in that connection. If she/ he answers in the affirmative
his/ her statement shall be recorded. If an Employee replies not guilty, the inquiry shall proceed by :
(a) The case shall be opened, by  summoning witnesses in sequence for the Company and their evidence shall be recorded.
Proceedings shall be recorded clearly and legibly and the date and place of the inquiry shall be recorded.
(b) When a statement is being made by the accused Employee, the witnesses shall not be permitted to be present and when a
statement of witnesses is recorded, the accused Employee shall be permitted to be present.
(c) The evidence shall be recorded in the form of direct speech and in a language familiar to the accused Employee and
witnesses.
(d) When the evidence of a witness has been completed he/ she shall sign the record, (each page if his/ her evidence goes
beyond one page) as a correct record of his/ her evidence. If the witness refuses to sign the record, an entry to that effect
shall be made by the Inquiring Officer in the record.

<!-- page 77 -->

77 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(e) The accused Employee shall be given an opportunity to cross - examine the witnesses. The prosecution shall be permitted
to re - examine the evidence given. The Inquiring Officer may asked questions in clarification of any evidence given.
(f) On the conclusion of the evidence for the Employer, the accused Employee shall be requested to make a statement and give
evidence if he/ she so wishes. If the accused Employee makes a statement, or gives evidence, his/ her evidence shall be
recorded subject to cross - examination. If the accused Employee refuses to make a statement or give evidence he/ she shall
not be compelled to do so, but a record shall be made of this effect. The accused Employee is required to sign his/ her
recorded evidence and, if he/ she refuses to do so, a record shall be made to this effect. The same procedure stipulated above
should be followed in respect of witnesses who refuse to make statements, give evidence or sign his/ her recorded
evidence.
(g) The accused Employee shall be afforded an opportunity to call other witnesses, if any, to support his/ her case. If an accused
Employee refuses to give evidence or to call witnesses, the Inquiring Officer shall record the fact that the accused Employee
was aforded the opportunity of giving evidence and calling witnesses. If a witness refuses to sign recorded evidence, the
Inquiring Officer shall sign the record confirming it to be a correct record of the witness’s evidence.
(h) At the end of the inquiry, the accused Employee shall sign the statement to say that he/ she was satisfied that the inquiry was
conducted in a fair and reasonable manner.
5.5.6 Where documents are produced at the inquiry on behalf of the prosecution the accused shall be given an opportunity to study (but
not to remove) such documents. If the accused employee wishes to produce any document/s she/ he should certify the same prior
to producing them.
5.5.7 The Inquiring Officer shall initial documents marked at an inquiry. The Inquiring Officer shall take possession of all documents
and items produced before him/ her during the inquiry and, after the conclusion of the inquiry shall hand over the same to the
Employer for safe custody.
5.5.8 Before the conclusion of the prosecution case, if it appears that addional charges need to be framed, or the existing statement of
charges need to be amended, or other parties may be charge - sheeted, the Prosecuting Officer shall make an application to this
effect to the Inquiring Officer who in turn shall inform the Company to issue a fresh show cause letter. If there is no Prosecuting
Officer, the Company shall make such request.
5.5.9 In the event of the existing charges being amended or additional charges framed, the Prosecuting Officer may recall witnesses,
summon new witnesses or entertain any further documents, as the Officer considers necessary. In such a case, the accused
Employee must be afforded an adequate opportunity of defending himself/ herself against such new or amended charges, of
cross - examining such witnesses or examining such documents as the case may be. Where the Inquiring Officer considers the
presence of a certain witness or document necessary to throw light on the inquiry proceedings or in the interest of natural justice,
he/ she should be entitled at any stage to call such witnesses or such documents to the inquiry.
5.5.10 The inquiry may be re - opened where the inquiry is concluded and no order has been made as yet and the Inquiring Officer feels
that it is necessary to hear further evidence in order to make up his/ her mind, or if the Company makes a request for further
evidence which was not available when the inquiry was proceeding, and such evidence has been subsequently received.
5.5.11 The inquiring Officer shall submit a report to the Employer after the conclusion of the inquiry. The report shall contain his/ her
decision on each of the charges together with the reasons for such decision. The Inquiring Officer’s findings and report should
state specifically whether or not he/ she concludes that the accused Employee is guilty of the charge/s.
5.5.12 Compa ny shall decide on the punishment to be imposed in respect of employee found guilty of misconduct. The Employer shall
communicate the punishment to the employee.
Annexure No : 6
Types of Misconduct
(a) Misappropriation or failure to account for the funds of the Company
(b) Theft, fraud or dishonesty in relation to property belonging to the Company
(c) Habitual breach of regulations or orders of the Company
(d) Negligence resulting in loss or damage to the Company
(e) Dangerous or unauthorized driving or use of vehichles belonging to the Company
(f) Driving a vehicle belonging to the Company while under the influence of liquor or drugs

<!-- page 78 -->

78 A I ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
(g) Acting in collusion with customers and/or agents of the Company, to the detriment of the Company and/or so as to cause
loss to the Company
(h) Insubordination
(i) Conviction in Court of a crimininal offence or finding by other statutory authority involving moral turpitude
(j) Sabotage of or wilful dammage to property of the Company
(k) Taking or giving of bribes to Company personnel
(l) Riotous or disorderly behaviour and gambling within the premises of a Company
(m)  Misuse of property belonging to the Company
(n) Failure to carry out lawful orders
(o) Issue of unlawful instructions to subordinates
(p) Acting wifully in a manner calculated to  cause loss, prejudice or harm to the Compnay, or which affects adversely its
goodwill or prestige and /or negligence
(q) Misuse of authority, power or position for personal gain
(r) Submission of false or forged certificates and/ or travelling claims
(s) False or incorrect declaration in forms pertaining to applications for employment
(t) Insobriety or drunken behaviour
(u) Wilfully giving false evidence or altering Company documents without authority
(v) Habitual late attendance
(w) Absence without authority (unauthorised absence)
(x) Failure to observe the “Code of Conduct” and Company regulations
(y) Sexual harassment of fellow employees or unbecoming conduct/behaviour
(z) Causing disaffection or mischief among fellow workers
(aa) Acts or omissions which undermine the management or members of the management staff or directors
(bb) Refusal to accept communications from the Company
(cc) Carrying on a business, occupation or calling which is in competition with the Company
(dd) Refusal to perform overtime without a reasonable reason
(ee) Unpunctuality
(ff) Failure to wear uniforms and Safety equipments whilst on duty
(gg) Discourtesy to customers and agents of the Company
(hh) Failure to observe safety precautions
(ii) Failure to report an accident involving vehicles owned by the Company
(jj) Failure to maintain essential records
(kk) Smelling of liquor whilst on duty
(ll) Negligence during the course of work resulting in injuries to co-worker/s
(mm) Smoking and Chewing betel in areas outside the allocated locations
(nn) Causing injury to self through carelessnsess or negligence of duty
(oo) Failure to wear uniform provided by the company when travelling to and from work
(pp) Bringing disrepute to the Company by disgraceful behaviour whilst wearing the Company uniform at external locations
Annexure No : 7
7.1 Format 1.-  Authorization for check off
As I am an employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement between Trelleborg Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., and the Free Trade Zone
Employees Union and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check off contained in the said agreement of which I am eligible as
a member of the Free Trade Zone General Services Employees’ Union, please deduct from my salary each month a sum of rupees
. ……. …… (Rs. ……) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said union and remit the same to the said union
on my behalf, the first payment should be made from my salary next due immediately following the date hereof.
Signature of the Employees
Full name of Employee
Date
Received on
(To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 79 -->

79 AI ï¨å´Ì: (I) ï¯¼Æ – Êòé Èâ¨å Àò°åºå¾àºòè¨ ÌÄå°Éå¼û °¾Ç°ïÆà ¡ºø —ïÊË ªæÌ… ÀºòÆ – 2013.03.14
PART I:  S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2013
7.2 Format 2.-  Name of Employer
Revocation
With reference to the authorization submitted by me please cease to deduct from my salary my future membership dues in favour of
Free Trade Zones and General Services Employees’ Union with effect from the salary due to me immediately forthcoming the date
hereof.
Date
Signature of Employee
Full Name of Employee
Received on
FINAL PROVISIONS
if, in the period of existence of this Agreement, regulations are changed and provisions become invalid, both Contracting Parties
obligate themselves to agree upon new provisions in accordance with the regulations in force. All amendments, changes and
supplements, of this Collective Agreement will be discussed and agreed by both Contracting Parties in advance.
Both Contracting Parties undertake to maintain social conciliation after the signature of this Agreement.
Any disputes arising under this Agreement concerning fulfillment of provisions therein as well as disputes during conclusions of
amendments to this Agreement will be settled according to the Industrial Disputes Act.
Both Contracting Parties agreed that supplementing and updating the Annexures of this Collective Agreement, if needed, will be
made once a year during the Collective Bargaining Process.
Trelleborg Wheel Systems Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd. will ensure printing this Agreement within fifteen days after registration with the
Department of Labour.
This Agreement is in operation from 5th December 2009 to 31st December 2013 and has an effect after the date of signature. Both
parties witness this agreement by the signature of their representatives.
03 - 1131
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA