

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'17
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
95
95
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 9th May, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
25th  April, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
     This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 96
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"859- 2014 wfma%,a  17 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'04'17
No. 1,859 – THURSDAY ,  APRIL  17,  2014
N.B.– (i) Parts  I : III and III  of the Gazette  No. 1,858 of 11.104.2014 were  not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'17
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.04.2014
96
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/36317.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.:
m<d;a$b'fld'$b2$uyj$osn$4-8'
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE   LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose, Mahawa
Multi Purpose Service Coperative Society  has requested on lease
a state land containing in extent about 30 P.out  of extent marked
part of the  lot number 10  as depicted in the tracing bearing
No. w'  .' ms' 1919  and  situated in the village of Kithulharayagama
which  belongs to the   Grama Niladhari Division of  214,
Nagollagama   coming within the area  of authority of  Mahawa
Divisional Secretariat in the District of Kurunagala.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : From Nagollagama to Hiriyala Road    ;
On the East by : The land of reserved for  post office ;
On the  South by : The land of situated "govijana sewa
kendraya" ;
On the West by : The land of reserved for  people's bank.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following  Conditions   : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  (Since 19.02.2014);
The Annual  amount  of the Lease.– 2 % of the  commercial
value of the land as per valuation of the chief valuer for the
year 2014  ;
(b) This  lessees must, within one year of the commencement
of the lease,  develop the land  in such a manner as to
captivate the  mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the Purpose of  Commercial/Industrial purpose ;
(d) The lessees must  also be subject to  the  other  special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the  Divisional
Secretary and by other  institute  ;
(e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(f) No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum
period of 05 years ;
(g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(h) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
 P
RASADEE UBAYASIRI,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, "Mihikatha Medura"
Rajamalwatta  Road,
Battaramulla,
25th March, 2014.
04-534
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.