

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1935
1935
wxl 1"676 - 2010 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'10'15
No. 1,676 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 15, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1938
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1940
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st October, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th
October, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1936
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1937
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1938
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL'S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 15th November, 201 0.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
23rd September, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
Secretariat Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Badulla Mahiyanganaya Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/General) District Secretary/ Additional
of Binttanna Division and Births and Deaths of Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Binttanna West Division Badulla.
10–506
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Sri Lanka Survey Department
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST  OF  APPRENTICE
SURVEYORS OF THE SRI LANKA SURVEY
DEPARTMENT
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka
possessing the following  qualifications to be appointed to the Post
of Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey Department
Applications  prepared in accordance with the specimen given
below should be sent to "The Surveyor General, Surveyor General's
Office, No. 150, Kirula road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05" under
registered cover to reach him on or before 04.11.2010. The wording
"Application for the Post of Apprentice Surveyors" should be
clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application. Applications sent through other means  except by
post will be rejected.
02. Every candidate should have fulfilled the following eligibility
requirements and must furnish proof that he/she –
(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b)  is of excellent moral character and physically sound ;

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1939
(c) is not less than 22 years and not more than 33 years on
the closing date of application ;
(d) should have complied with the educational qualifications.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary : The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned
to this post is as follows :
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 (iv) MN- 5A
Rs.16,720 - 10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 - 30,685.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Selected candidates will be appointed to the Post of
Apprentice Surveyors in the Sri Lanka Survey
Department subject to the general conditions governing
the appointments of the public service and to the
conditions specified in the Surveyor's Service Minute
published in the Extraoridinary Gazette  of the
Democratice Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,434/5
dated 27.02.2006 and to the amendments which have
been made or may be made from time to time to the said
Minute.
04. Conditions of Appointment :
(i) Those who are appointed should undergo training in
departmental matters for a period of 06 months.
(ii) They are bound to furnish security to the amount of
Rs.25,000 for the government stores issued to them.
(iii) After completion of training period, they are subject to
serve the Survey Department as a surveyor in the Sri
Lanka Surveyor's Service for a period of 06 years and for
that purpose they are required to enter into an agreement
and a security bond with a surety having assests worth
not less than a sum of Rs.150,000.
05. Educational Qualifications. – Should have a Degree in
Surveying Science obtained from a recognized University or
Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission. The
undergraduates, who are waiting for the final examination results of
the Surveying Science Degree in this year, can also apply for the
post. However, they have to produce the degree certificate at the
interview.
06. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the results
of the interview, in this case, the merit order of the Surveying
Science Degree examination will be taken into account. All the
Surveying Science graduates,  who furnish the applications and
have complied with the relevant qualifications should present
themselves before the interview board when called, together with
the originals of the under - mentioned documents :–
(i) Certificate of Birth,
(ii) Degree Certificate and the other educational certificates,
(iii) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or a valid Passport,
(iv) Two character certificates - One of which should be
from the Grama Seva Niladhari, of  your area, counter -
signed by the Divisional Secretary concerned,
(v) Certificates  of computer proficiency,
(vi) Certificates to prove the knowledge of the other languages
in addition to the mother tongue,
(vii) Sports certificates.
07. Applications not having the necessary requirements and
which are received after the closing date will be rejected.
08. If any candidate is found to be disqualified he/she is liable
for the cancellation of his/her candidature before the interview or at
the time of interview or after the interview or at any time thereafter.
If a candidate is found to have furnished any false information
purposely or a candidate has deliberately concealed any important
information he/she shall be liable to dismissal from the service.
09.Candidates already employed in the Public Service should
forward their applications through the Head of their respective
Departments. The Survey Department is in no way responsible for
any loss of applications in the post.
By order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
T. A
SHOKA PEIRIS,
Secretary,
Ministry of Land and Land Development.
No. 80/5, Govijana Mandiraya,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
27th September, 2010.
S
RI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF APPRENTICE SURVEYORS
IN THE SRI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals. Eg. SILV A A. B.)
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
1.5 Date of issue :–––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Postal Address :–––––––––.
(in English block capitals)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1940
03. Ethnicity :
Sinhala - 1, Tamil -2, Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4
Other- 5
(Indicate the relevent No. in the Cage)
3.1 Citizenship :–––––––––.
(Whether by descent or by registration, if by registration,
give registration No.)
04. Sex :
Female - 1, Male - 0
(Indicate the relevent No. in the cage)
05. Civil Status :–––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
6.1 Age as the closing date of the application :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
(i) University/Institution :–––––––––.
(ii) Degree and Year of Graduation :–––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :–––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :–––––––––.
(v) Index No. :–––––––––.
(vi) Class (Upper/Lower) :–––––––––.
(vii) Medium of Language in which you appeared for the
exam :–––––––––.
08. Details of the Courses in Computer Science followed :––––––.
09. Proficiency in other languages in addition to the mother tongue :
–––––––––.
10. Sports :–––––––––.
11. Other Qualifications :–––––––––.
12. If ever convicted of any criminal offence in a Court of Law, give
full particulars of it :–––––––––.
13. If you are already in government service, state whether you
had been subjected to interdiction from service upto the date of
receiving applications :–––––––––.
I do certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct.
I am aware that if any particulars given by me herein are found
to be false or incorrect, I am liable for disqualification if detected
before selection and for dimissal from service if detected after the
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
(This is applicable only to the candidates already employed in the
Public Service).
..........................
..........................
.........................
Surveyor General,
The particulars furnished by Mr./Mrs./Miss................ who
serves in this Institution are correct. He/She has not been subjected
to any disciplinary action and he/she can be/cannot be released
from the service if he/she is selected for the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Frank)
Date :–––––––––.
10-493
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HIGHER  EDUCATION
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
PATHWAY FOR THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO THE ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTES FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR – 2011
APPLICATIONS are called for the Higher National Diploma and National Diploma Courses conducted by Sri Lanka Institute of
Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) for those who have successfully completed the new or old syllabuses of the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in or before year 2009.
How to Apply.– All duly filled applications prepared according to the specimen application form appeared below should be
directed to the relevant Advanced Technological Institute/Section mentioned in the Section "A", under a registered cover with a  receipt
obtained by crediting of Rs. 250 to the SLIATE Account No. 025-100133397613 at People’s Bank, Park Street Branch (Colombo) or any
other branch of the People’s Bank in Sri Lanka. The "course applied" should be clearly stated on the top left hand corner of the envelope.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1941
Candidates wish to apply for more than one institute should submit separate applications for each institute applied, while
attaching separate receipt worth Rs. 250 for each of those. Applications of which the money is credited to some other account n umbers
other than the account number mentioned above will be rejected.
The applications received after the closing date will not be entertained.
Addresses of the Advanced Technological Institutes/ATI Sections as well as the courses conducted of those are available in the
Section 'A' and the applicants should select their academic programs from the list given in Section 'B' according to their qual ifications.
Mode of Lectures :
Day/Full Time Courses : During weekdays, daytime
Part Time Courses : During Week ends, day time
: Part time courses are confined for those who employed in relevant fields.
Course Fees.– No course fees are levied for Day courses. Course fees for Higher National Diploma in English part time students
will be Four Thousand Rupees (Rs. 4,000) per a semester. Course fees for 1st and 2nd year Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part
time students will be Two Thousand Rupees (Rs. 2,000), 3rd and 4th year Higher National Diploma in Accountancy part time studen ts
will be Three Thousand Rupees (Rs. 3,000) per a semester and it is subjected to be revised annually. Higher National Diploma in
Information Technology part time students will be Ten Thousand Rupees (Rs. 10,000) per a semester. (Two semesters per year).
Interview.– Short listed applicants will have to either sit for a written test and/or face an interview for the selections. The
selections of students will be based basically on the Z-Score or the Aggregate marks of the Advanced Level Examination. Date, time and
venue of interview and the necessary documents to be submitted in the interview, will be notified in writing. When the original documents
are not available, certified photocopies will be accepted with the agreement of your submitting the originals at the time of registration for
the academic program.
Hostel Facilities.– Limited number of hostel facilities are available for girls in ATI I Naiwala/Dehiwela and for girls as well as
boys in Ampara Hardy ATI. This facility is only for the full time students and the selection criteria are based on the distance between the
institute and the residence of the student.
S
ECTION "A"
ADDRESSES, TELEPHONE NUMBERS AND THE CODE NUMBERS OF THE ADV ANCED TECHNOLOGICAL
INSTITUTES/A.T.I. SECTIONS
Code Name of the ATI/ATI Section Address T elephone
No. Nos.
01. Advanced Technological Institute, Dehiwala Waidya Road, Dehiwala 011-2714270 011-2738349
02. Galle Advanced Technological Institute, Siridamma Mawatha, Labuduwa,
Labuduwa Akmeemana 091-2227880 091-2246179
03. Advanced Technological Institute, Kandy No. 16, Keppetipola Road, Kandy 081-2226644 081-2232097
04. Advanced Technological Institute, Kurunegala No. 22/1, Wilgoda Road, Kurunegala 037-2224911 037-2229583
05. Advanced Technological Institute, Badulla Greenland Drive, Badulla 055-2230218 055-2223818
06. Advanced Technological Institute, Jaffna No. 665/5, Beach Road, Guru Nagar, Jaffna 021-2222595 -
07. Advanced Technological Institute, Naiwala Naiwala, Essalla, Veyangoda 033-2287519 033-2292544
08. Hardy Advanced Technological Institute, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara
Ampara 063-2222056 063-2222056
09. Advanced Technological Institute, Trincomalee Kann iya Road, Varodayanagar, Trincomalee 026-2223232 026-2222593
10. Advanced Technological Institute, Kegalle Bandaranayake Mawatha, Kegalle 035-2221297 -
11. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Technical College, New Town,
Anuradhapura Anuradhapura 025-2234417 –
 *12. Advanced Technological Institute Section, No. 14, New Super Market, Ratnapura 045-2230780 –
Ratnapura
13. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Main Street, Samanthurai 067-2261304 –
Samanthurai
14. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Technical College, Manchantuduwai, 065-2247519 –
Batticaloa Batticaloa
 *15. Advanced Technological Institute Section, Zonal Education Office, Tangalle 047-2240267 091-2246179
Tangalle
 * Addresses of Rathnapura and Tangalle ATI Sections, will be changed on January, 2011.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1942
NAMES OF THE COURSES AND THE CODE NUMBERS OF THE INSTITUTES
Names of the Courses Duration Code number of the Institutes
conduct the courses
1. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA - Day/Full time 4 years 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, 9,10, 11, 13,14
(English Medium)
1.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (HNDA) - Part time 4 years 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12,
(English, Sinhala and Tamil Medium) 13, 14, 15
2. Higher National Diploma in Management (HNDM) -  Day/Full time 3 years 1,2,3,4,5,6
(English Medium)
3. Higher National Diploma in Business Administration (HNDBA) - Day/Full time 2 1/2 years 1, 2, 3, 5, 6
(English Medium)
4. Higher National Diploma in Information Technology (HNDIT)-Day/Full 2 1/2 years 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10
time (English Medium)
4.1 Higher National Diploma in Information Technology (HNDIT) - Part time 2 years 5, 6
(English Medium)
5. Higher National Diploma in Technology - Agriculture (HNDT-Agri) - 3 years 2, 7, 8
Day/Full time (English Medium)
6. Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) - Day/full time 2 years 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10
6.1 Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) - Part time 2 1/2 years 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14
7. Higher National Diploma in Business Finance (HNDBF) - Day/full time 2 1/2 years 1
(English Medium)
Note :–
1. Syllabi of all academic programs are being revised. Some academic programs will be commenced in 2011 according to
the revised syllabi and the duration of those courses also may be changed.
2. Medium of instruction of the Higher National Diploma in Accountancy program (Day/Full time) is in English
Medium for the first and second years and conducted only on weekdays. Third and fourth years of this academic
program are conducted in weekends and the medium of instructions of it is English.
3. The first and second years of the Higher National Diploma in Management (Day/Full time) course will be conducted
during daytime of the weekdays and the third year will be conducted during the weekend.
4. A pass in the General Paper is compulsory for the applicants qualified in the G. C. E. (A/L) new syllabus.
5. It is considered the Z-score or aggregate marks of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination as the selection criteria to select for
each and every academic program.
6. Preference will be given for the candidates passed in subjects or in the field relevant to the academic program.
7. For day courses, it will be given preference for those who are under 22 years.
8. For what ever the reason no student will be transferred to any other Advanced Technological Institute after their
selecting for a full time course in particular ATI or ATI Section.
Qualifications for Admission to the above Courses
01. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy HNDA (Day/Full time) should have one of the followings :
(i) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination (Old Syllabus) passes in four subjects of which at least two should be credit passes obtained
at the one sitting with Pure Mathematics or Accountancy as one of the subjects for which a credit pass should have been
obtained ;
Where a credit pass is not available for Mathematics or Accountancy a credit pass obtained for either of these subjects
at G.C.E. (O/L) will be considered as an alternative :–
A credit pass in Mathematics at the G . C. E. (O/L) is considered as an alternative for a credit pass in either Pure
Mathematics or Accountancy at the G . C. E. (A/L) ;  or
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (New Syllabus) passes in three subjects at one sitting with Combined Mathematics or
Accountancy as one of the three subjects of which at least, two credit passes should have been obtained.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1943
A credit pass in Mathematics at the G . C. E. (O/L) is considered as an alternative for a credit pass in either Combined
Mathematics or Accountancy at the G. C. E. (A/L) ; or
(iii) Holders of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical Education and
Training ; and
(iv) An ordinary pass in English at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination.
The selection criteria is based on the high marks obtained at the G. C. E. (A/L) examination old syllabus - four subjects
or new syllabus - three subjects.
1.1 Higher National Diploma in Accountancy - HNDA (Part Time) should have one of the followings :
(i) A degree or Intermediate Examination of a recognised university ;
(ii) Four subjects (old syllabus/three subjects (new syllabus) in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting ;
(iii) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technician, conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and Training.
(iv) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Business Studies (Accountancy Group) conducted by the
Department of Technical Education and Training. Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting
conducted by the Department of Technical Education and Training.
N. B.–
(a) Practical Experience – Applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a Government Institution/Public Authority
or a recognised firm.
(b) Those who possess the following qualification will be exempted from the 1st year and will be admitted to the 2nd year
subject to satisfing other entry requirements and availability of places :
(i) National Diploma in Business Studies/Business Finance ;
(ii) Higher National Diploma in Commerce/Management, second year ;
(iii) B. Sc. (Business Administration) ;
(iv) B. Com.
(v) B. Sc. (Accountancy) ;
(vi) ICASL Part I and II ;
(vii) CIMA Part I and II ;
(viii) AAT Stage III.
02.Higher National Diploma in Management – HNDM (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :–
Pass in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in all four subjects/G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in all three
subjects in one sitting, in any stream with ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ; or
National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National Certificate in Business Studies (Public Administration/Marketing)
conducted by the Department of Technical Education and Training ; and
ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
03.  Higher National Diploma in Business Administration – HNDBA (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :–
(i) G . C. E. (A/L) examination (old syllabus) in Economics, Commerce and Finance and Accountancy or G . C. E.
(A/L) examination in any two of the above three subjects and a pass in one of the following subjects : Political
Science, Pure Mathematics, Geography, Sinhala, Tamil, English, Logic, History, Business Statistic at the same
examination  ; or
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in Economics, Business Studies and Accountancy or G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination in any two of the above three subjects and a pass in Georgraphy, Home Economics, Political Science,
Logic and Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science, Combined Mathematics and Business Statistic at the same
examination ; or

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1944
(iii) Successfully completion of National Certificate in Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of Technical
Education and Training ; and
(iv) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
4.  Higher National Diploma in Information Technology – HNDIT (/Full time/Part time)
Applicants should have one of the followings :–
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) at one sitting, one of which
should be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Pure Mathematics and Accountancy ; or
(ii) Should have obtained four passes at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Old syllabus) at one sitting, one of which
should be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry ; or
(iii) Should have obtained three passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (New syllabus) at one sitting, one of which
should be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Combined Mathematics and Accountancy ;
or
(iv) Should have obtained 3 passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (New Syllabus) at one sitting, one of which should
be out of the following subjects : Physics/Agricultural Science*, Biology, Chemistry ; and
(v) An ordinary passes in English and Mathematics at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination* Agricultural Science (G. C. E.
A/L) – the new syllabus which is implemented from the year 1995.
5. Higher National Diploma in Technology – HNDT (Agriculture) (Day/Full time)
Applicants should have one of the following :–
(i) Should have obtained four passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in Bio-Science stream at one
sitting, two of which should be out of the following subjects : Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Botany, Zoology and
Physics ; or
(ii) Should have obtained 3 passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in Bio Science stream at one sitting,
two of which should be out of the following subjects : Chemistry, Agricultural Science, Biology and Physics ; and
(iii) An Ordinary passes for English and Mathematics at G. C. E. (O/L).
6. Higher National Diploma in English (HND in English) – (Full time/Part time)
Should possess one of the following qualifications :–
(i) G. C. E. (A/L) in 3 subjects with 'C' pass in English Literature at the G . C. E. (O/L) ; or
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) in 3 subjects with a 'C' pass in English Language at the G . C. E. (O/L) ; or
(iii) English specialist Teacher Training Certificate or College of Education Diploma for English Teachers ; or
(iv) G. C. E. (A/L) in 3 subjects and a 'C' pass in General English at G. C. E. (A/L) ; or
(v) G. C. E. (A/L) in 3 subjects and a pass at the National Certificate in English for Commerce, Industry and further
Education conducted by the Departemnt of Technical Education and Training or equivalent qualifications.
7. Higher National Diploma in Business and Finance – HNDBF (Day/Full time)
Should have one of the followings :–
(i) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (old syllabus) in 04 subjects including Economics, Commerce and Finance, Accountancy
in one sitting ; or
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (new syllabus) in 03 subjects including Economics, Business Studies and Accounting or
any two of the above with one of the following subjects, Geography, Home Economics, Political Science, Logic and
Scientific Methods, Agricultural Science or Combined Mathematics in one sitting ; or

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1945
(iii) Successfully completion of National Certificate for Accounting Technicians conducted by the Department of
Technical Education and Training ; and
(iv) An ordinary passes in English and Ma thematics at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
Note :
1. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy (Part time) Tamil medium academic programs are available in Advanced
Technological Institutes of Jaffna, Trincomalee, Sammanthurai, Batticaloa, Kandy and Dehiwala. Higher National
Diploma in Accountancy (Part time) Sinhala medium academic program conducted in all the Advanced Technological
Institutes expect ATI Jaffna, Trincomalee, Batticaloa and Sammanthurai. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy
(Part time) English medium academic programs conducted only at Advanced Technological Institute Dehiwala  ;
2. Higher National Diploma in Accountancy Certificate is validated by the Circular No. 46/90 (III) of October, 2008
as equivalent to the Bachelors Degree in Commerce, (Ordinary Pass) awarded by a recognised University ;
3. Your order of preference for the academic programs have to be indicated on your choice to be considered for the
admission based on your qualification.
Please note that the decision of the Director-General SLIA TE will be the final decision on the admission of students
to Advanced Technological Institutes/Sections for the academic year 2011.
This notice will be pubilshed in the Government Gazette on 15.10.2010.
Closing date of applications : 29.10.2010.
H. T. K
AMAL PATHMASIRI,
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education.
No. 18/2, Ward Place,
Colombo 07,
Website : 
www.sliate.net
Office use only  – Course Number ..............................
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
Application Form for Admission to Higher National Diploma Course
Name of the Institute/Institute Section :––––––––––––.
Name of the Course Order of Preference Medium
1 .................................... ................................. .................................
2 .................................... ................................. .................................
3 .................................... ................................. .................................
01. Name with initials :––––––––––.
02. Name/Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
03. Address :––––––––––.
04. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
Age as at 01.01.2011 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––. Male/Female

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1946
07. Administrative District :––––––––––. Contact Number :––––––––––.
08. (i) Result of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (in or before 2009) :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––. Medium :––––––––––.
Pass Subjects Grade
1. ...................... .......................
2. ...................... .......................
3. ...................... .......................
4. ...................... .......................
If under new syllabus indicate pass or fail in the general paper :––––––––––.
Aggregate/Average marks or Z-Score of the above examination, issued by the Department of Examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Results of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––. Medium :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ........................... ........................... 6. ........................... ...........................
2. ........................... ........................... 7. ........................... ...........................
3. ........................... ........................... 8. ........................... ...........................
4. ........................... ........................... 9. ........................... ...........................
5. ........................... ........................... 10. ........................... ...........................
09. Highest Qualification in English as a subject :––––––––––.
10. Details of Occupation : Date of Appointment :––––––––––.
(only for part time/weekend courses)
Post :––––––––––.
E.P.F. Number :––––––––––.
Place of work and address :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that I am not following any other full time course of study in any other state institution. I am aware that my
registration will be cancelled at any time during the period of study if it is found that I concurrently follow a full time cou rse at any
other state institution. I hereby certify that the information furnished here is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
(The bank receipt for Rs. 250 payable to SLIATE should be annexed)
10–633
 MINISTRY  OF  SPORTS
National Institute of Sports Science
DIPLOMA COURSE IN SPORTS SCIENCE 2010/2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from candidates follow the Diploma
Course in Sports Science conducted in Sinhala medium by the
National Institute of Sports Science of the Ministry of  Sports. The
applicants should be in 18-35 years of age (The age should be not
more than 45 years for those who are already in the Government
Service).
01. Education and other Qualifications :
1.1 Should have passed G. C. E. Ordinary Level Examination
or its equivalent in six subjects (6) in not more than two
sittings, and two of the six subjects should be in Sinhala
or Tamil Language and Arithmetic or Mathematics.
1.2 In addition to the above, the applicant should have
obtained –

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1947
(a) First, second or third place in National Sports
Festival or first or second place in an individual
event or 1st place in a team event District Level
Competition of National Sports Festival conducted
by the Ministry ; or
(b) First, second or third place in an individual event in
National level competition or first or second place
in a team event conducted by a National Sports
Association ; or
(c) First place in an individual event over sixteen years
of age or Championship in a team event in national
schools competitions ; or
(d) As a member of a National sports team, should
have participated South Asian games, Asian
games, Asian Championship Competitions,
Commonwealth games, World championship games
or Olympic games ; or
(e) A sports officer in the Ministry of Sports or in any
other institution under the Ministry or attached as
a Sports Officer in any Provincial Council or as a
teacher in sports under the Ministry of Education
(if is mandatory to fulfill the requirements relating
to note 01) ; or
(f) Possessed 05 years of experience as a Teacher,
instructor/instructuress in sports or Physical
Education (even as a V olunteer) in an institution
recognized by the government or a sports officer
attached to the National Youth Council with a
Graded coaching phase or a license ; or
(g) Should have successfully completed a preliminary
and a higher level course in sports not less than 06
months duration, as an instructor/instructuress in
the Police, Armed Forces or Civil Defence Service.
N. B. - Notice
01. Those who are serving under the Ministry of Sports or
Ministry of Education should have completed one year
and five years of service respectively. (Physical
education teachers who have received training at College
of Education should have 02 years experience).
02. Applications which are not duly completed as per the
specimen will be rejected.
02. Preparation of Application :
2.1 Candidates possessing the necessary qualifications
mentioned above should submit their application in a
paper 8" x 13 1/2" as per specimen of application form
appearing at the end of this notice. Application should
be completed in their own hand writing and sent by
registered post to reach the Director, National Institute
of Sports Science, 100/7, Independence, Avenue,
Colombo 07, on or before 15.11.2010.
2.2 "Application for the Course of Diploma in Sports 2010/
2011'' should be written at the top left hand corner of
the envelop containing the application.
2.3 Applicants who are employed in the Government Sector/
Provincial Service Corporation should forward their
applications through their respective heads of
institutions. If not such applcation will be rejected.
2.4 A money order obtained from cinnamon Garden's post
office for a sum of Rs.300 being examination fees drawn
in favour of Secretary, Ministry of Sports Should be
sent under a registered cover.
03.  Selection of Candidates .– Out of the applications received
those candidates who have fulfilled all the eligibilities will be called
for a written examination. The candidates who are successful at the
examination will be called for an interview and a physical fitness
practical examination. Those who are successful will be selected to
follow the course.
04. Details of the Course :
4.1 Syllabus contains five sections as follows :–
(a) General Theory of Traning (Study of the physical
qualities and skills Techniques Strategies, training
Methods, Aspects of Planning, Principals of Load
and Tests) and a viva.
(b) Theory and practice of at least ten Major Sports
(c) Specialization in Track and Field Athletics.
(d) Within the duration of Diploma course, specialization
is required in one sport, other than track and filed
Athletics offered to male or female students as the
case may be. (Football/V olley ball/Netball./Basket
Ball)
(e) Study of General Subjects such as Sports Physiology
Sociology, Sports Administration, Sports Statistics,
Organizing Methods of Sports Festivals, Sports
Medicine, Sports Biochemistry, Sports Nutrition and
Sports Psycology.
4.2 The duration of the course is 12 months
4.3 The unemployed who are selected to the course should
pay a course fee of Rs.15,000 and those who are
employed in Government Departments,
Corporations or Provincial Councils should pay a
sum of Rs.30,000 as course fee personally or through
their institutions. This payment should be made in
favour of the "Secretary of Ministry of Sports" by
cheque, (Admissions will be granted only after the
realization of cheque) This payment is not refundable
what so ever.
4.4 The selected candidates are bound by the rules and
regulations of the National Isntitute of Sports Science.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1948
4.5  Certificate in “Diploma in Sports Science” will be
awarded to those who complete the course
successfully.
05. Other Conditions :
5.1 The Ministry does not hold responsibility to provide
employment to those who complete the course.
5.2 However if the Ministry requires that those following
this Course should enter into an agreement with the
Director of the National Institute of Sports Science,
they should do so accordingly.
5.3 Highest qualification or required qualifications should
be stated in the application and any data sent later
will not be accepted.
5.4 The Director of the National Institute of Sports
Science will use his own discretion on any matter not
specified in this notice.
S. L
IYANAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Sports.
No. 7A, Reid Avenue,
Colombo 07,
.. 2010.
N
ATIONAL INSTITUTE OF SPORTS SCIENCE
DIPLOMA IN SPORTS SCIENCE - 2010/2011
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01 (i) Full name : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––.
(ii) Name with Initials :–––––––––.
(iii) Full Name (in English Block Capital Letters) :––––––.
(iv) National Identity Card No. :–––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Private :–––––––––.
(ii) Official :–––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Day :–––––––––.
Age on 15.11.2010 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
04. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––.
If so by Descent or by Registration :–––––––––.
05. (i) Sex :–––––––––.
(ii) Marital Status :–––––––––.
06. Whether you are employed or not :
(i) Service Station :–––––––––.
(ii) Present Post :–––––––––.
(iii) Duration of the service :–––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
Year Name of Examination Subjects Grade
08. Achievements in Sports (Certificates obtained and special
achievements) :–––––––––.
09. (i) According to the Gazette notification, under which
qualification category (1.2 : a, b, c, d, e, f, g) that you are
eligible to apply for the course :–––––––––.
(ii) Give details of qualifications relevant to the category stated
above :–––––––––.
10. Any other special remarks :–––––––––.
11. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs.15,000 or
Rs.30,000 if selected :–––––––––.
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. I
am aware that if the information given by me is found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the course.
––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation
Employees Only
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science,
I recommend herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss........
employee of............... working as........... I certify that this applicant
could be released for the period of the Course if selected.
––––––––––,
Signature,
Name and Designation of the Certifying Officer.
Official rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––.
10-511
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  SUPRA  CLASS  OF  PUBILC
MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’  SERVICE  –  2010
THE written test of the Limited Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the Supra Class of Public Management Assistants’
Service will be held in the following towns by the Commissioner
General of Examinations in January, 2011 at the occasions, where a

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1949
sufficient number of applications are not received in respect of a
certain town, examination center Scheduled to be held in such town
will be shifted to the next nearest town. The Secretary, Ministry of
Public Administration and Home reserves the rights to postpone or
cancel the examination subject to the instructions of the Cabinet of
Ministers/Public Services Commission :–
Town Town Number
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Badulla 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
02. On the results of this examination, 35% of vacancies existing
in Supra Class of Public Management Assistants’ Service as at
01.01.2010 will be filled.
03. The salary segment MN07/2006-A of Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006(iv) is entitled to this post and accordingly, the
monthly salary scale will be Rs. 20,030 - 11 x 365 - 18 x 500 - Rs.
33,045.
04. Qualifications.– Following officers attached to the Central
Government who have completed an active and a satisfactory service
of 05 years immediately preceding 01.01.2010 will be eligible to sit
for this examination :–
(a) Officers in Class I of the Public Management Assistants’
Service ;
(b) Officers in Class II of Public Management Assistants’
Service who have completed an active service of not less
than 08 years ;
(c) Officers in Class II and I of Public Management Assistants’
Service who are graduates.
Note I.– Definitions for the period of satisfactory service
and period of active service are indicated in Paras. 2:6
and 2:7 of the Service Minute.
05. Method of applications :
(a) Application should be prepared in such a way that Nos.
1.0 to 5.0 appear on the 1st page, Nos. 6.0 to 9.0 on the
2nd page and the remaining numbers on the 3rd page. The
required information should be furnished clearly by the
candidate’s own handwriting. The application should be
in the form of the specimen appended to this notification
and should be prepared by the candidate himself on paper
of size 25.5 x 21cm (A4 paper) using both sides. The
application should be prepared in the same language in
which the candidate intends to sit the examination and
candidates are not allowed to change the language medium
after the closing date of applications. Applications that
do not comply with the specimen or that have not been
completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with
the candidate. It is the responsibility of the candidate to
make sure that the application complies with the specimen
as otherwise it may be rejected.
(b) Applications perfected by candidates should be
forwarded to the Head of Department along with a
photocopy and once his/her recommendation is obtained,
the photocopy should be filled in the personal file of the
candidate while the original should be sent through the
respective Head of Department to reach the Commissioner
General of Examinations, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla before 16.11.2010 by Registered
Post. Copies of applications other than the application
sent through the Head of Department, should not be sent
personally. Application received after the closing date
will be rejected. The respective Head of Department should
certify that the application has been perfected in every
respect and should place his signature on the certificate in
the applications. No application should be sent to the
private address of the Commissioner General of
Examination or any other officer. The top left corner of
the envelope containing the application should clearly
bear the words “Limited Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Public Management Assistants’ Service –
2010”.
(c) (i) Examination fee will not be charged from the candidates
who sit the examination for the first time, namely
candidates who did not sit the Limited Competitive
Examination for promotion to Supra Class of General
Clerical Service, held in 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976,
1978, 1979, 1980, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986,
1987, 1989, 1991, 1996, 1999 or 2001, candidates
who did not sit the Limited Competitive Examination
for promotion to Supra Class of Government Typists’
Service held in 1985 and 1996, candidates who did
not sit the Limited Competitive Examination for
promotion to Supra Class of Government
Stenographers’ Service held in 1996 and candidates
who did not sit the examination for promotion to
Supra Class of Governments Book-keepers’/Shroffs’
or Store-keepers’ Service held in 1996 and candidates
who did not sit for the Limited Competitive
Examination for promotion to Supra Class of PMAS
held in 2006, 2007.
(ii) Examination fee is Rs. 400. This fee should be paid at
the nearest District Secretariat/Kachcheri/Divisional
Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13
on or before the closing date of applications. The
receipt issued should be affixed in the relevant cage of
the application. This fee is non-refundable. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with
the candidate.
(d) Incomplete applicaitons will be rejected. Complaints on
applications or any relevant dcouments getting lost or
delayed in the post will not be entertained. The
unfavourable results of delaying the process of application

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1950
until the last few days should be born by the candidates
themselves.
(e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
06. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to each applicant with regard to the
applications received. A candidate presenting himself for
the examination should get his signature on the admission
card attested in advance and produce his admission card
to the supervisor of the examination center on the day of
the examination. Any candidate who fails to produce his
Admission Card will not be permitted to sit the
examination.
(b) Candidates must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him. Every candidate should surrender to
the supervisor of the hall, the admission card relevant to
that hall at the first day he presents himself for the
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates
is published in this Gazette. Candidates should be bound
by the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting
the examination and they are liable to a punishment
imposed by him for breach of these rules.
(c) Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all the candidates who have paid
examination fees, completed the application form properly
and sent before due date.
(d) Any candidate who does not receive his admission card
before the examination (at least 7 days before the date of
examination) should at once notify the Commissioner
General of Examinations, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla. (Telegram Address, Exams
Colombo, Fax No. : 2784232) with the following
particulars :–
A notification will be published in newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as the admission
cards are issued to candidates. If the admission card is not
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement.
It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the
time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the
receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration
and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of
request furnishing a fax number to which the admission
card should be sent.
Note.– Admission to examination does not necessarily
mean that the candidate is eligible to sit the
examination. However, Commissioner General of
Examinations may, on his discretion, grant a
temporary permission to a candidate to sit the
examination. Such candidature can either be cancelled
or confirmed in due course.
07. Identity of candidates.– A candidate will be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, only one of
the following documents will be accepted :–
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
08. Penalty for furnishing false information :
(a) If a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with
the rules and regulations of this examinaiton, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to,
during or after the examination.
(b) If the particulars furnished by a candidate are subsequently
found to be false or if it is found that he/she has willfully
suppressed any material fact he or she will no longer be
considered for an appointment. Furthermore, he or she
will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
09. Language Medium of the Examination.– The examination will
be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages. Candidates should
sit the examination in the language medium in which they sat the
reccruitment examination or in one of the official languages.
10. Scheme of Examination .– Written test will consist of the
following subjects :
Subject Marks Minutes (Hours)
1. Office Management 100 02
2. Office Systems 100 02
3. Establishment Procedures 100 02
4. Public Financial Management 100 02
5. General paper
100 1 1/2
500
11. Selection for Appointment.– On the order of marks secured at
the examinations, candidates will be called for an interview which
will be conducted by an interview board appointed by the Cabinet of
Ministers/Public Services Commission for verification of
qualifications. No marks will be allocated at such interview. Selected
candidates are liable to serve in offices situated in any part of the
Island where vacancies exist. Appointment of any candidate will be
cancelled, if he/she refuses to assume duties at the respective office.
At such occasions, vacancies will be filled by calling other candidates
in the order of marks.
12. Appointments will be made subject to the general conditions
governing the appointment of the Public Service, rules and regulations
stipulated in the Public Management Assistants’ Service Minute

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1951
dated 15.12.2004 published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1372/23 dated 24th
December, 2004 and any amendment already made and will be made
thereto in due course and as per (I) of 03 and (IV) of the letter of the
Cabinet No. 09/1041/360/034 dated 11.11.2009.
13. Syllabus.– Knowledge in the following subjects is expected
from the candidates :–
(1) Office Management.– Organization structure, principles
of organization, job analysis and evaluation, leadership
supervision and decision making, communication, public
relations, co-ordination and problem solving ;
(2) Office System. – Principles of office systems, office
procedures, records and filling, control and designing of
forms, correspondence, control over the use of office
equipment, office layout and premises, job description,
work study method study, work measurement, Manual
of Office Operations ;
(3) Establishments Procedures.– Procedures to be followed
in recruitment to the Public Service, establishments matters
of public officers, maintenance of a personal file.
Delegation of authority in making appointments to the
Public Service, transfers, promotion and termination of
services, welfare and privileges of Public Officers. The
general knowledge on regulations and circulars hitherto
issued by the Government will be tested ;
(4) Public Financial Management. – Annual Estimates and
the responsibilities on an Accounting Officer, financial
control, delegation of financial responsibility, receipt of
money, accounting and acceptance, payments, custody
of public money, imprests and bank accounts, supplies
and services, tender procedure, board of survey, audit
queries, ledgers used in Government offices, summaries
of income and expenditure, bank reconciliation and books
used in financial management.
The general knowledge of circulars and regulations hitherto
issued on the use of the Public funds will be tested ;
(5) General paper.– The nature of Public Administration,
structure of Public Administration, Public policy and
reforms, fundamental rights, human rights, Human Rights
Commission, Ombudsman, Parliamentary Committee for
Public Petitions, office culture, ethics and values, creation
of proper office environment and welfare of staff, social
recognition of official and civil status, obligations of public
officers.
14. The Cabinet of Ministers/Public Services Commission reserves
the right to refrain from filling some or all of the vacancies and also to
decide on the matters not provided for on these regulations.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
On the order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
D. D
ISSANAY AKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
30th September, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
For office use only
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR APPOINTMENT TO SUPRA
CLASS OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’ SERVICE – 2010
Indicate two towns, in the order of
preference, in which the candidate Town Town Number
intends to sit the examination
(Refer 1st para of the Gazette 1.
notification) 2.
Language Medium :
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.1. Name, with initials at the end (In English block capitals) :
––––––––––.
1.2. Name in full (In English block capitals) :––––––––––.
1.3. Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.0 Permanent addres (In English block capitals) :––––––––––.
2.1. Permanent address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.2. Official address (In English block capitals) :––––––––––.
(Admission card will be sent to this address)
3.0 Sex :
Female - 1, Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
4.0 Marital status :
Single - 1, Married - 2
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
5.0 Number of N. I. C. :

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'10'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2010
1952
6.0 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
6.1. Age as at 01.01.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
7.0 Have you sat for any of the following examinations ? Examinations
for recruitment to G. C. S. held in 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976,
1978, 1979, 1980, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988,
1989, 1991, 1996, 1999, 2001/Examination for recruitment to
Government Typists’ Service held in 1985 and 1999/Examination
for recruitment to Government Stenographers’ Service held in
1996/Examination for recruitment to Government Book-keepers’
Service held in 1999/Examination for recruitment to Government
Shroffs’ Service held in 1999/Examination for recruitment to
Government Store-keeper Service held in 1999/Limited
Competitive Examination for Promotion to Supra Class of the
Public Management Assistants’ Service held in 2006, 2007 :
––––––––––.
8.0 (i) Date of appointment to General Clerical Service/
Government Typists’ Service/Government Stenographers’
Service/Government Book-keepers’ Service/Government
Shroffs’ Service/Government Store-keepers’ Service :
––––––––––.
(ii) Total period of service as at 01.01.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
(iii) No pay leave obtained during the 05 years immediately
preceding 01.01.2010 :––––––––––.
(iv) Period of active service as at 01.01.2010 :
Years : Months : Days  :
(v) Date of confirmations in the post of General Clerical
Service/Government Typists’ Service/Government
Stenographers’ Service/Government Book-keepers’
Service/Government Shroffs’ Service/Government Store-
keepers’ Service :––––––––––.
(vi) Present grade and the date of appointment to the same
grade :––––––––––.
(vii) If possessing a degree, the year and the name of the
University :––––––––––.
(viii) Effective date of the degree :––––––––––.
9.0 (i) Language medium in which the candidates sat the
competitive examinations to enter General Clerical Service/
Government Typists’ Service/Government Stenographers’
Service/Government Book-keepers’ Service/Government
Shroffs’ Service/Government Store-keepers’ Service :–––.
(ii) If the candidate was recrutied to General Clerical Service/
Government Typists’ Service/Government Stenographers’
Service/Government Book-keepers’ Service/Government
Shroffs’ Service/Government Store-keepers’ Service
without holding a competitive examination, language
medium in which the candidate obtained qualifications to
enter the service :––––––––––.
10.0 Certificate of the candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief,
(a) All increments falling due within the 05 years immediately
preceding 01.01.2010 have been earned by me (Except
increments for which the passing of Departmental Service
Examinations has been prescribed) and that I have not
suffered any disciplinary punishment whatsoever during
the same period ;
(b) The information given in this form is true and that since I
am sitting this examination for the first time, the fee should
not be paid/the cash receipt of No. ............. dated ...............
obtained on payment of examination fee is affixed hereto.
I also agree to be bound by the rules governing, examinations
and decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature,
if it is found that, I am ineligible according to the regulations
of this examinations.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the officer.
Date :––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Miss. ..................... has
been serving in this office since ....................... his/her work and
conduct are satisfactory, that the particulars furnished on the back
page have been checked personally by me with the documents
available in the office and were found to be correct, he/she is eligible
for exemption from examination fees since she/he is appearing for
the examination for the first time, an endorsement to that effect has
been entered in the history sheet of the officer as per Circular No. 13
dated 02.10.1972, he/she has satisfied requistie qualifications and
the he/she has signed before me on ............. 2010. Reference No. of
the Director General of Combined Services and the date of the letter
of absorption of this officer to Public Management Assistants’ Service
are .............. and ........... respectively.
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
Head of Institution.
Date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly and carefully by applying glue only
on the top margin of the reverse of the receipt.
10–612
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.