

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"258- 2021 foieïn¾ ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.12'10
No. 2,258– FriDAY , 10 DEcEmbEr, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy, GAzETTE,
AttENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31
st December, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th December, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.,
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1471 - B 082295 - 5,403 (12/2021)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1477
Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1474 
Note.—  Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to 
the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 10th December, 2021.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1472
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
regulations, the Establishments code, Departmental orders or regulations 
and any other orders or regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1473
Rules  and   Instructions  for  candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1474
Posts – v acant
JuDICIAL  SERvICE COmmISSION
Recruitment for the post of Deputy Registrar of the 
Supreme Court in the 
Scheduled Public Officers' Service - 2021
01. iN terms of provisions set out in the Scheduled Public 
Officers' Service Minute published in extraordinary Gazette 
bearing No. 2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, applications are 
called from Sri Lankan citizens who possess the required 
qualifications to make recruitment to the post of Deputy 
Registrar of the Supreme Court in the Scheduled Public 
Officers' Service.
02. Conditions of Service -
2.1. An applicant selected to the post of "Deputy 
Registrar of the Supreme Court" shall be 
subject to the general conditions governing 
the appointments in Public Service, terms and 
conditions set out in the Scheduled Public Officers' 
Service Minute published by the extraordinary 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka bearing No. 2088/26 dated 11.09.2018, 
amendments already made and will be made 
thereto in due course to the said Service Minute, 
provisions of the Establishments code and 
Financial Regulations.
 
2.2. The other official language proficiency applicable 
to the Post of Deputy Registrar of the Supreme 
Court should be acquired in accordance with 
circulars issued and/or circulars to be issued in 
due course in relation to implementation of the 
Official Language Policy in terms of Sec. 12.18 
of the Scheduled Public Officers' Service Minute 
published by the extraordinary Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
bearing No. 2088/26 dated 11.09.2018.
03. Salary :
As per Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 
and Judicial Service Commission Circular No. 386 
dated 24/06/2016 issued in parallel with the said 
Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 by 
the Judicial Service Commission, the salary scale 
prescribed to the post of Deputy Registrar of the 
Supreme Court in the Scheduled Public Oficers' 
Service is SL1 - 2016 (Monthly) Rs. 47,615 - 10 x 
1,335 - 8 x 1,630 - 17 x  2,170 - Rs. 110,895 (The 
initial salary step for the post is step 12 of SL1 - 2016 
salary scale. Initial salary - Rs. 62,595). Salary will 
be paid from the effective date of the appointment.
0
4. This post is permanent and pensionable.
05. Qualifications
(a). Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
and
(b). Should be not less than 30 years and not more 
than 45 years of age as at 10.12.2021
and
(c). A Deputy Registrar of the Court of Appeal or 
an officer who has completed an active and 
satisfactory service period of 07 years in Grade 
I Registrars' Service of Sri Lanka and has been 
confirmed in one of the said posts.
or
(d). An Attorney-at-Law who has been in active 
practice for not less than 07 years.
Note.- 
I. Period of service as an Attorney-at-Law in a 
staff post or in legal capacity in any Ministry, 
Government Department or State Corporation 
or Government Statutory Board or as a 
teacher of Law in a recognized University or 
Law School shall be regarded as a period of 
active practice.
II.  The upper age limit will not apply to offciers 
who are already in the Government Service, 
Provincial Public Service and Scheduled 
Public Officers' Service.
(e). Be a person of excellent moral character.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1475
f). Should have a sound physical and mental fitness 
to perform the duties of the post.
N.B.- It is compulsory that every applicant should have 
fulfilled all the qualifications required for the respective post 
by 10th December 2021 or prior to said date.
06.  A qualified person for the post will be selected based 
on the result of a structured interview conducted by 
the Judicial Service Commission from applicants 
who have fulfilled the basic required qualifications.
07.  If an officer is recruited to the above post in terms 
of the qualifications stipulated in 05(c) above,  
he/she shall be subjected to an acting period of one 
year from the date of appointment. If the recruitment 
is done to the above post in terms of the qualifications 
stipulated in 05 (d) above, he/she shall be subjected 
to a probation period of three years from the date of 
appointment.
08.  the appointments of the applicants who fail to 
assume duties in the post to which they are appointed 
on the due date or applicants who refuse or neglect 
to assume duties in the post into which they are 
appointed, shall be cancelled by the Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission on the direction of the 
Judicial Service Commission.
09. Penalty for furnishing false information :
Any misstatement or suppression of a fact which is 
considered material will render the applicant liable 
to disqualification, if such statement or suppression 
is discovered before the selection and to dismissal or 
discontinuance if discovered after the selection.
10. method of Applying :
 ( a). The application fee is Rs. 500/-. The application 
form can be obtained by sending the receipt 
obtained by paying the relevant amount from any 
People's Bank branch to the credit of the account 
of 'Secretary, Judicial Service Commission' No: 
297100199025039 of the People's Bank, Dam 
Street Branch along with an envelope 9x4 in size 
with  the name and address of the applicant written 
on it, by registered post to the Judicial Service 
Commission Secretariat or by personally handing 
it over. When filling the receipt at the time of 
payment, the applicant's name and address should 
be stated in the space provided in the receipt.
 ( b). Duly perfected application should be sent under 
registered post to reach the address "Secretary, 
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat, Colombo 12' 
on or before 10.01.2022 or the applicants should 
hand over the applications by personally visiting 
the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat. 
 
11. (a). Applicant's signature in the application form should 
have been attested by a Principal of a Government 
School, a Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, 
an Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces, an Officer holding a 
Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer 
holding a permanent post in Staff Grade in the 
Public Service.
 ( b). Applicants who are already in Government Service 
and who have fulfilled above qualifications should 
submit their applications through their respective 
Head of the Department.
 ( c). Applications which have not been duly completed 
in every respect will be rejected. No complaints 
regarding applications lost or delayed in the post 
will be entertained.
12.  Any matter not provided for in above paragraphs 01 
to 11 will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary 
of the Judicial Service Commission subject to the 
instructions of the Judicial Service Commission.
13.  In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction 
among the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of the Judicial Service Commission,
 
H. S. Somaratne, 
 Secretary,
 Judicial Service Commission. 
  
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
colombo 12.
02nd December, 2021.
12 - 379

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1476
Registar General's Department
Position v acant
Sinhala medium
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marraiges/ Additional marriages (kandy/General)
Nuwara Eliya District
Applications are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages/ Additional Marriages for the divisions set 
out in the schedule hereof,
01. Applicant Should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, Deaths and Marriages/ Additional Marriages Division and 
entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acuired sufficient interest 
and influence amongst the residents of the area
02. Both male and Female candidates can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications 
(Maximum age of retirement is 65 years)
04. Applicants for the post of Registrar of Marraiges should be married and should be a widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including sinhala language with 02 Creadit passes is not more 
than Two (02) sittings in GCE(O/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary languages 
as per the language requirment of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N. B. -  In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should  have the ability to establish the office in centrally located building that ensures respect of the post and 
easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. Additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari Division of the relevant division of Births, Deaths and 
Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained 
from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as District Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post offices depiceted 
in the schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said "Annex-01" inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari Division could be collected 
from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat Applications could 
also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's Department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 10.01.2022 by registered post to the address given in the 
schedule.
Schedule
District Divisional 
Secretariat Division
Post & Division for which Application 
are called
Addressto which Application 
should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Kothmale Post of Births & Deaths Registrar of 
Pallepane Division & Post of Marriages 
registrar of Kothmale Division 
(Kandyan/ General)
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Scretariat,Nuwara Eliya
 
W. m. m. B. WeeraSekara, 
 registrar General
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/AB,
Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla.
12 - 405

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1477
PubLIC SER vICE COmmISSION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of 
Sri Lanka Agricultural Service - 2021
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Citizens who have completed the following qualifications on the last date of 
receipt of applications for the open competitive examination for the recruitment of officers to the 162 posts mentioned in 
Section 1, Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service under the Provisions set out in the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service 
Minute. The application form has been published on the website of the Sri Lanka Examination Department, www.doenets.
lk and applications can be submitted only through online. Once the application is submitted online, it should be downloaded 
and the signature of the applicant should be attested in the printed copy with certification of the Head of the institution if 
applicable. Thereafter, that printed copy of the application should be sent by the registered post to reach the Commissioner 
General of Examinations, Institutional Examination Organization Branch, Sri Lanka Examination Department, P.B. 1503, 
Colombo on or before the closing date of applications. Name of the Examination should be clearly marked on the top left 
corner of the envelope. 
Acceptance of online applications opens on 13.12.2021 at 8.00 a.m.
The printed copy of the application should compulsorily be sent by the registered post and the complaints on the loss or 
delay of the printed copy in the mail will not be considered. The inconveniences that may cause due to the delay in sending 
applications until the closing date should be borne by the applicant himself.
Note.- Candidates who have applied for the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
Agricultural Service as per the Notice of call for Applications published in the Government Gazette No. 1929 dated 
21.08.2015, if they wish to appear for the examination, they have to re-apply online. The maximum age limit mentioned 
under 5.3 of this announcement does not apply to the candidates who had qualified on the date mentioned in the previous 
announcement. Here they do not even have to pay the exam fees again. The list of candidates who have applied earlier will 
be published in the websites of the Examinations Department of Sri Lanka and Ministry of Agriculture.
The "Minute on the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service" includes the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service Minute" published in the 
Extraordinary Gazette No. 1880/2 dated 19.09.2014 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and all amendments 
made to it so far and to be made in the future. In this notification "Appointing Authority" shall mean " Public Service 
Commission", "Secretary" shall mean the Secretary of the Ministry - in -Charge of the subject of Agriculture, "Service" 
shall mean Sri Lanka Agricultural Service" and "Appointment" shall mean "an appointment to the Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
Agricultural Service" and "Written Examination" shall mean "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III 
of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service 2021" and the term "Officer" unless otherwise specified shall mean "an officer of the 
Sri Lanka Agricultural Service."
The closing date of applications will be 10th of January 2022.
This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations in march 2022 in Colombo only.
1. Number of vacancies
Stream Post No. of Vacancies Code of the post
Agricultural 
Development
Assistant Director of Agriculture 
(Agricultural Development)
69 1
Agricultural Research Assistant Director of Agriculture
(Agricultural Research)
88 2
Agricultural Economics Assistant Director of Agriculture
(Agricultural Economics)
05 3
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1478
  
   
Note.- An applicant who has fulfilled the required qualifications can apply for more than one or more than one streams out 
of the streams of Agricultural Development, Agricultural Research and Agricultural Economics using only one application.
2. method of Recruitment :
2.1.  Written Examination :
 The written examination consists of the following two question papers in accordance with syllabus prescribed 
in first appendix of this notification.
Question Paper Duration 
(hours)
Maximum 
marks
Pass marks 
(minimum)
Intelligence Test Paper 1 1/4 100 40
Subject Related Study (In accordance with the relevant post) 2 100 40
2.2.  To pass the written examination, 40% or more marks are required for each question paper.
2.3 General Interview :
 Based on the order of the highest number of the aggregate of marks secured in the written examination, a 
number of applicants not exceeding twice the number of vacancies out of the applicants shall be called for the 
interview.  No marks will be given in the general interview and only the applicants will be required to confirm 
whether they have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service Minute and this 
notification on the due date. The Board of Interview shall be appointed by the Public Service Commission.
2.4. In the event of an applicant has secured sufficient marks for the selection of more than one scheduled posts 
having applied for one or more than one scheduled posts, recruitment shall be made taking in to account the 
merit of their written examination marks and the options of the applicant. The applicant shall express his/her 
option in writing at the interview and he/she shall not be allowed to change it later.
2.5. After scrutinizing the qualifications of applicants by the board of interview, the Public Service Commission will 
recruit candidates for the vacancies in each post who will be selected on the basis of merit sequence of written 
examination marks only. 
3. Terms and Conditions of Engagement :
3.1.  This post is permanent and pensionable. You are subject to the policy decisions taken by the government in the 
future in respect of pension scheme you are entitled to. Further, any officer who will be appointed to any of 
above posts should make his/her contributions to Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans' pension fund as stipulated 
by the government from time to time.
3.2. Officers selected should be agreeable to serve in any part of the island.
3.3. All officers in the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service are subject to serve in all Provincial Public Services as 
required. For this purpose the officer will be temporarily released to a post in the Provincial Public Service. 
Such term of service will be determined on the consent between the relevant Provincial Authority and the 
Appointing Authority according to exigencies of service.
 (a) Provincial authority will issue a letter of appointment to the relevant officer subject to the conditions of 
release from the service. The officers appointed to Provincial Councils will be subject to be transferred within 
the Province by the relevant Provincial Authority. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1479
(b) An officer shall be subject to the administration and desciplinary control of the Public Service Commission, 
even during his period of service in the Provincial Public Service.
(c) An officer who released to the Provincial Public Service shall return to his/her substantial post at the end of 
the period he/she so released .
3.4. Officers appointed to Grade III on the results of Open Competitive Examination will be subject to a period of 
three (03) years' probation. Officers appointed through Open recruitment shall pass the First Efficiency Bar 
Examination before confirming in the post.
3.5.  Skills Development : Skills Development training will be provided to the officers recruited to the service 
through one (01) month training programme to acquire the skills on trends of Socio Economic and Cultural 
in relation to agricultural development and job environment by the Department of Agriculture or any other 
institute (Example : Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration) identified by the Department. At the 
end of the programme a certificate will be awarded after an assessments. This certificate should be obtained for 
the confirmation in the service. 
3.6 Selected candidates will be placed in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service subject to the General terms 
an conditions governing appointments in the Public Service provisions of the Service Minute of Agricultral 
Services of Sri Lanka, Regulations of the department, provisions of the Establishments code and financial 
Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the Rules of Procedure of the Public Service 
Commission (hereinafter referred to as Procedural Rules) published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1589/30 
of 20.02.2009 and any amendments hereinafter thereto the above Terms, Conditions, orders, Provisions, 
regulations and rules.
3.7. Recruited officers are required to obtain the competency in the second languages within prescribed period as 
per provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020 and Circulars incidental thereto.
4. monthly Salary Scale :
The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned to these posts as per Public Administration Circular 03/2016 is as 
follows :
 SL - 01 - 2016 - Rs. 47,615 - 1335 x 10 - 1630 x 8 - 2170 x 17 - Rs. 110,895/=
 Recruitment will be made to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Agricultural Service and they will be placed in the Initial 
salary step of Grade III - Rs. 47,615/=
5. Qualifications :
5.1. Educational Qualifications : 
 
5.1.1  For Streams of Agricultural Development and Agricultural Economics :
  Four year Bachelor's degree in Agriculture from a University recognized by the University Grants 
commission
5.1.2. for Stream of Agricultural Research :
  Four year Bachelor's degree in Agriculture from a University recognized by the University Grants 
commission
 or
  Four year degree in Bachelor of Science in the subject of Botany, Chemistry, or Zoology obtained from 
a University recognized by the University Grant Commission
5.2. 
Physical Requirements : 
 Every applicant shall be physically fit in all respect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1480
5.3 Other Qualifications : 
(a)  All applicants must be citizens of Sri Lanka.
(b)  The age should not be less than 22 years and not more than 30 years as at the closing date of applications. 
Accordingly an applicant qualifies to sit the examination in terms of age only his/her date of birth falls on 
or before 10.01.2000 and on or after 10.01.1992.
(c)  An applicant is eligible to sit the Open competitive examination only thrice.
(d) Every applicant shall be physically fit in all respect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and it should be 
proved by medical certificate.
(e) Applicants must be of excellent moral character
(f) Every applicant shall fulfill the prescribed qualifications as at the date specififed in this notification. 
(Applicants apply for open recruitment should have obtained degree qualificaitons prescribed as basic 
educational qualifications on or before the closing date of applications. For this purpose, the valid date 
of the degree should be a date on or before the closing date of applications. Applications submitted on 
pending results will not be valid.)
6. The examination fee for this examination is Rs. 1200/-. When the examination fee is paid, the payments should be made 
only through the following payment methods provided in the online system.
 (i) Any Bank credit card
 (ii) Any Bank debit card
 (iii)  Bank of Ceylon Online Banking Method
 (iv) Bank of Ceylon Slip Payment
 (v) Postal Department Payment at any Post Office
Acknowledgement of the payment will be informed by an SMS or E-mail. The full amount of examination fee 
should be paid and the applicaitons for which the payments have been made less or more than the examination fee 
will be rejected. The Department of Examinations will not be responsible for the errors occuring in the payment of 
examination fees by the above payment methods.
Note.-  Instructions on the manner in which the payments are made through the above methods are published under 
technical instructions in the website of the Department of Examinations.
7. Instructions to prepare the Applicaiton and Apply to the Examination :
7.1. The online application of the examination should be filled only in English Language. In addition to the soft 
copy of the application submitted by the applicant via online, a printed copy thereof should also be sent 
by the registered post. Once the Department of Examinations recives both soft copy and printout copy of 
the applications, those copies will be verified and the applicant will be informed whethere the department 
accepted/ did not accept it as a valid application by sending an SMS message to the mobile phone number 
used to access the system or to an e-mail address. Before filling the online application, please download the 
common instructions sheet prepared for the examination. Follow these instructions thoroughly when the 
application is filled. Any revision made after taking a printout of the application will not be considered as a 
valid revision. The incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
7.2. The signature of the applicant should be certified in the application and in the admission form for the 
examination. The signature of an applicant working in any State / Provincial Public Service or Public 
Corporation should be attested by the Head of the Institution or an authorized officer, other applicants get 
his/her signature attested by a Head of a Goverment School/Retired Officer, Grama Niladhari of the Division, 
Justice of the Peace, commissioner of Oaths, Attorney at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Office in the 
Armed Forces or Permannet Staff Officer of Public Service or the Chief Incumbent of a Buddhist Temple or 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1481
the Presiding Priest or a person holding a significant position in the clergy or in charge of any other religious 
place of worship. 
8. Admission to the Examination :
8.1. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issure admission cards to the applicants whose ages are 
within the age limits specified in the notice and who have sent duly completed applications with the relevant 
receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee on or before the closing date of applications. An applicant 
presenting himself/ herself for the examination must produce his/her attested admission card to the supervisor 
of the examination centre. An applicant who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to 
sit the examination. The Sri Lanka Department of Examinations will publish a notice in newspapers soon 
after the issuance of admission cards to the applicants. Any applicant who does not receive his/her admission 
cards two or three days after the notification, should notify that effect to the Department of Examinations 
as mentioned in this notification. Applicants are informed to notify to the Department of Examinations 
indicating full name, NIC number and address of the applicant and keeping the copy of appliclation which 
is retained by you, copy of receipt of payment of examination fee and copy of the receipt of registration of 
the application issued when application was sent by registered post in hand and in case of an applicant living 
outside Colombo, to obtain a copy of the admission cards by fax, it would be more productive to notify to the 
Department of  Examinaitons by faxing a request including your above information and a fax number.
8.2. An appliclant must sit the Examination at the Examination Hall assigned to him/her. Every applicant should 
surrender the admission card to the supervisor of the examination hall of the first day presenting himself/
herself for the Examination. It is the responsibility of every applicant to answer the question paper prescribed 
for the examination to which he/she presents himself/herself. A set of rules to be followed by all applicants 
is published in this Gazette. All applicants are subject to the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations is connection with this examination. An applicant who violates any of these rules is liabel to a 
punishment at the discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
8.3 Issuance of the admission cards to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite 
qualifications to sit for the examination. 
 
9. Identification of the Applicant :
An applicant will be required to prove his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject he/she at appears. For this purpose any of the following documnets will be accepted.
 i. National identity card
 II.  A valid Passport
 III. A valid driving license
Furthermore, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their faces and ears in order to prove 
their identity. The candidate who refuses to prove their identity in the said manner shall not be allowed to enter the 
examination hall. Moreover, the candidates should remain in the examination hall from the time of entering the 
examination hall up to leaving upon completion of the examination without covering the face and ears enabling the 
invigilators to identify the candidate.
10. Scheme of Examination :
10.1. Medium of the Examination :
 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media . The language of the examination given 
in the aplication will not be allowed to change later.
10.2. An applicant  must sit for all papers of the examination in one and the same language.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1482
11. Competitive Examination Procedure and relevant syllabus :
All applicants shall answer the question papers 1 and 2 in accordance with the syllabus hereinafter referred to. 
Syllabus for each post is indiated in first appendix.
12. Results of the Examination :
The result sheet containing the names of the candidates who have not more than double the number of vacancies 
will be sent to the Secretary, Public service commission. After the approval of the Public Service Commission, the 
Commissioner General of Examinations will convey the results to all applicants who appeared for the examination, 
personally by post or on the website www.results.exams.gov.lk.
13. No certificates should be attached to the application. Applicants should be prepared to submit the original documents 
of the certificates to prove the qualifications mentioned in their application only at the time of interview. 
14. furnishing false Information :
If an applicant is found to be ineligible his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to during or after 
the examination. If any particulars furnished by an applicant found to be false or if he/she has willfully suppressed 
any material, fact he/she will be liable dismissal from the Public Service.
15. The Appointing Authority will make the final decision on any matter not provided for herein.
16. The final decision of filling or not filling of all or part of existing vacancies will be taken by the Appointing  Authority.
17. In the event of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
    Secretary,
    Ministry of Agriculture.
"Govijana Mandiraya"
Rajamalwatta Lane,
battaramulla.
on 30 day of November 2021
First Appendix
Regulations and Syllabus of the Open Competitive Examination
Question Paper 1 - Intelligence Test
A multiple - choice short question paper including questions to assess the lingustic, Mathematics and Logical ability. 
Duration 1 1/4 hours . Total Marks 100.
Question Paper 2 - Study of Subject Area
This is a written aptitude test to assess the knowledge in the relevant subject area. Each applicant may sit for question papers 
as relevant to the post or posts he/she applies for, chosen from the following question papers. These question papers consist 
of short questions and multiple - choice questions. Duration 02 hours. Total marks 100.
Note.- Subject matter paper in the Open Competitive Examination will be prepared mainly focusing the theoretical knowledge 
in accordance with the following syllabus. Examination will be held as determined by the Director General of Examinations.
Syllabuses in respect of each post are enumerated below :

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1483
 1. Question Paper for the stream of Agricultural Research :
Applicants shall answer only one out of the two parts referred to in (A) and (B) bellow, as they wish.
PART  (A)
01. Agricultural Botany :
Fundamentals of crop classification, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology.
02. Genetics and Plant Breeding :
Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations molecular genetics cytogenetic quantitiative genetics, fundamentals of plant 
breeding, genetic resources protection and bio-diversity, pollination behavior and breeding concepts, incompatibility, mass 
and pure line selection, commonly used breeding methods and current trends.
03. Plant Pathology :
Types of pathogenic organisms, infections, response of plant to infections, infective methods and fundamentals of their 
management, current trends in plant pathology and disease management, diagnostic techniques, symptomatology, Koch's 
postulate application, modern techniques of diagnosis (ELISA), current trends.
04. Fundamentals of entomology :
Fundamentals of classificaiton of animals, structural characteristics, biological information and damage, economic 
significance of pest damage, estimation of insect population and damage.
05. Seed Technology :
Seed physiology, morphology, dormancy, germination, viability, tests on viability and purity, stages of seed production, seed 
certification and seed storage.
06. Tissue Culture :
Theories, facilities and requirements for tissue culture, media, applications of tissue culture systems, protoplast culture, 
mutagenesis, embryo rescue, in vitro fertilization, genetic transformations, cryopreservation.
07. Agricultural Chemistry :
Fundamentals of biochemistry and practical applications of biochemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of food chemistry 
and practical applications of food chemistry in agriculture, fundamentals of analytical chemistry and practical applications 
of analytical chemistry in agricultrue;
or
PART  b
01. Agronomy
 Agro-climatology, ecology, land development, tillage, fundamentals of crop growth and physiology, 
measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and control, principles 
of irrigation systems, principles of crop soil and water relationship.
02. Crop Science
 Physiology of rice, highland grains, pulses, tuber crops and other field crops, growth, methods of propagation, 
methods of planting, physical chemical and biological methods in crop manipulation, establishment and management of 
scientific pastures, fundamentals of timber and fruit production.
03. Soil Science
 Soil formation, physical and chemical characteristics of soil , soil problems relating to cropping, fertility 
management of soil, watershed management, plant nutrition, fundamentals of plant classification.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1484
04. Genetic and Plant Breeding :
 Fundamentals. Mendelian law, population genetics, mutations, molecular genetics, cytogenetic, 
fundamentals of plant breeding, genetic resources protection and bio-diversity.
05. Plant Pathology :
 Plant infections, response of plants to infections, biological control, modern trends in deisease management.
06. Fundamentals of entomology :
 Indicated under sub-paragraph 04 of question paper (A)
07. Field research principles and statistical principles and knowledge in important statistics on agricultural sphere in Sri 
Lanka.
08. entomology :
 Economically significant insects in agriculture, their classification, internal and external features, structure 
of different systems and their functions, pest management, significance of pest damage, pest identification, their damage and 
control, integrated pest management.
09. Micro-biology :
 Micro-organisms and agricultural environment, bio-technology applications in agriculture, soil -living 
biomass and their effects on agricultural practices.
10. Biometrics and Applied Statistics :
 Basic knowledge in statistics, agricultural reseach, analysis of planning obtaining and analysis of data.
Note.- it will be compulsory for all the applicants for the stream of Agricultural Research through Open recruitment to 
answer only any part of the 02 parts referred to as (A) and (B) above.
 II. Question Paper for the stream of Agricultural Development 
01. General Agriculture :
 Climatic zones of Sri Lanka, land development, land preparation and equipment, crop establishment 
and machinery required for the purpose, soil and soil fertility, nursery and nursery management, planting material, pest 
control, plant protection, appliances, cropping systems, irrigation methods, integrated farming, protected agriculture, micro-
irrigation systems, harvesting and harvesting machinery, post-harvest losses, processing of farm products, factors considered 
in slelecting suitable vegetables, fruits, pulses and cereals for cultivation in specific areas, integrated pest management, 
integrated plant nutrition systems, Plant Protection Act, Soil Conservation Act.
02. Crop Production :
 Agronomy, agro-climatology and ecology, land development and tillage, fundamentals of crop growth 
and physiology, measurement of crop growth, yield indices, fertilizer recommendations and efficiency, weed biology and 
control, irrigation agronomy, principles of crop water relationship.
03. Field Crops :
 Introduction, ecological requirements, plant species and varieties, growth physiology, Physiological 
principles of yeild determination, rice agronomy, crop management and production, highland cereals, legumes, tuber crops 
and other important fiels crops (tobacco, onion, fiber and oil crops).
04. Crop Management :
 Intercropping, harvesting and processing.
05. Horticultural Crop Production :
 Fruit production, nutritional value, social and economic factors, origin and distribution, ecological 
requirements, cultural practice, application of modern techniques.
 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1485
06. Fruit vegetable and flower production :
 Nursery management, orchard management, modern techniques in crop establishment and culture, fruit and 
vegetable crop improvement, fruit and vegetable based cropping systems, post-harvest losses, prevention of post-harvest 
losses of fruits and vegetables, biotechnology, local and export markets for fruits and vegetables., present constraints 
and future strategies, requirements for vegetable production, vegetable based cropping systems, marketing, floriculture, 
propagation techniques, cultural practices, quality parameters, principles of landscape gardening.
07. Agricultural extension and Training :
 Introduction of agricultural extension and objectives, agricultural development and extension, adaptation 
and diffusion of innovations, communication, teaching methods of extensions, extension approaches used in Sri Lanka, 
relation between research and extension, preparation of extension programmes, review and evaluation, institutions associated 
with agricultural extension in Sri Lanka, adult education, training procedure, various techniques use in identifying training 
requirements, arrangement of lessons, evaluation of training, use of audio-visual devices for training.
08. Seed Technology :
 Seed physiology, structure , morphology, germination, viability, seed testing, tests on viability and purity, 
stages of seed production, seed certification and seed storage.
09. Apiculture :
 Types of bees and hives in a colony, parts of bee boxes, capturing of bee colonies, estaqblishment, dividing, 
pest and diseases in a bee colony.
III. Question Paper for the Stream of Agricultural Economics
01. Agricultural Production/economics and Farm Management :
 Importance of farm management in agricultural production, basic concepts, production functions, forms of 
production functions, production surface, ISO - quant, ISO-clines, ISO-revenue lines, principles of resources combination 
and cost minimization, principles of diminishing returns, substitution and income effects, flexibility and diversification of 
adjustments of production to meet risk and uncertainity in agriculture, price theory with special emphasis relating to pricing 
of agricultural products, evaluation of crop-livestock combination, farm site and returns to scale principles of importance 
and comparative advantage of family farms, importance of records in determining the strong and weak points in the farm 
mechanization and incorporation of this information in optimization models.
02. Agricultural Marketing :
 General principles of marketing, relative importance of such production and mrketing institutions dealing 
with marketing in Sri Lanka, role of such institutions in influencing the growth of markets, problems facing the marketing 
of agricultural products in Sri Lanka and principles involved in improving marketing efficiency.
03. Land economics:
 Economics concepts as applied to land use, demand for land supply in Sri Lanka, land use planning in  
Sri Lanka, importance of colonization and settlement programmes in Sri Lanka.
12 - 344

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1486
mINISTR y Of LAbOuR
Open competitive Examination for Recruitment to the post of 
Labour officer - II of the Department of Labour - 2021
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan Citizens who have fulfilled qualifications stated in paragraphs 02 and 03 below 
as at the closing date of applications i.e. 20.01.2022, to be recruited on open basis according to the provisions of the Scheme 
of Recruitment approved by the Public Service Commission to fill 59 vacancies existing in the post of Labour Officer - II 
of the Department of Labour which comes under the purview of the Ministry of Labour. The Application for the same has 
been published in the website www.doenets.lk  of the Department of Examinations and applications can be submitted only 
through online. The application should be downloaded from the site, the relevant parts of the printout should be completed, 
signature of the applicants should be attested and it should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of 
Examinations, Insititutional Examinations Organization Branch, Department of Examinations P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on 
or before the closing date of applications. The examination will be held in examination centers in Colombo only, in April 
2022.
Note.- 01. It is compulsory to send the printed application through post and complaints on loss or delays of application 
will not be taken into consideration. The losses caused by delaying the application till the last day should be borne by the 
applicants themselves.
01. Scheme of Recruitment :
 Recruitment will be done after scrutinizing the qualifications of the candidates selected according to the merit order 
of the results obtained at the written examination at a general Interview.
02. Qualifications :
2.1. Educational Qualifications :
(a)  Having obtained a degree by a university recognized by the University Grants Commission.
or
(b) Being a lawyer who has taken oaths in Supreme Court.
2.2. Physical Fitness :
 Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit in every respect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to 
perform the duties of the post.
2.3 Other qualifications :
 
  I. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
  II. Should be of excellent character.
 III.  All the necessary qualifications required for the post should have been fulfilled in every respect as at the 
date mentioned in the notification calling applications.
03. Age Limit :
Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of applications. 
(Accordingly, persons whose birthday falls on or before 20.01.2001 and on or after 20.01.1987 shall be eligible to 
apply for this examination.)

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1487
04. Terms of employment and Service Conditions  :
 I. This post is permanent and pensionable. The candidates appointed to the post of Labour Officer Grade II of the 
Department of Labour shall be subject to policy decisions taken by the government in future in respect of the 
pension.
 II. The post is subject to a probation period of 03 years.
 III. 1st Efficiency Bar should be passed before the lapse of 03 years from the date of appointment.
IV .  The Provisions of Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and the circulars incidental 
thereto, shall apply in respect of the Official Language Policy.
 V . Selected candidates will be appointed to the post of Labour Officer - Grade II subject to the general conditions 
governing the appointments in the public service, Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Financial 
Regulations, Provisions of the Establishment Code and any amendments made or to be made hereafter and the 
terms and conditions set out in the scheme of recruitment approved by the Public Service Commission on 
26.09.2013 and any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the scheme of recruitment.
VI. Selected candidates should serve in any part of the Island in which they are called upon to serve.
VII. The Commissioner General of Labour holds the power to cancel the appointment of an applicant who fails to 
assume duties on due date in the post offered, and/or who rejects or avoids assuming duties in the appointed 
post or appointed area.
05. Salary Scale  :
The Monthly salary scale applied to this post is Rs. 34,605 - 10x660 - 11x755 - 15x930 - Rs. 63,460/- (Salary code 
MN-05-2016 as per Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016.)
06. Written examination  :
Written Examination will consist of 02 question papers.
Question Paper Time Maximum Marks Pass Marks
01. Essay and Summary 03 Hours 100 40
02. Aptitude test 01 Hours 100 40
Candidates should sit for all the question papers and only those who obtain 40% or more marks for each paper will 
be called for the General Interview. The number of candidates called for the interview, the number of vacancies to be 
filled, and the effective date of appointment will be decided by the Commissioner General of Labour.
In the event of several candidates obtaining the same marks, the decision shall be taken by the Commissioner General 
of Labour according to the instructions of the Public Service Commission, which shall be final.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1488
07. The syllabus of the written examination is as follows :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
01. Essay and Summary
This paper will be prepared with reference to 
important Political, Economic; Social Changes taken 
place locally and internationally.
02. Aptitude test
This paper will be prepared as a question paper to 
test the candidates' language and numerical abilities, 
logical power and decision making abilities.
08. Interview :
General Interview will be held only to scrutinize qualifications and marks will not be given.
N.b.  Appearing for the interview shall not be deemed as a fulfillment of qualifications to be appointed  to the post.
09. Conditions of Examination :
 I.  The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English. The applicant may sit for the examination in 
any one language he prefers. All examination papers should be answered in the same language. The applicant will 
not be allowed to change the medium stated in his/her application. All candidates should appear for both question 
papers.
 II.  The online application should be completed in English only. When both the soft copy of the application sent through 
online and the printed application sent through registered post are received by the Department of Examinations 
the soft copy and the printed applications will be verified. Thereafter the applicant will be informed that the 
Department has accepted/not accepted his/her application as a valid application by an SMS to the applicants' 
mobile phone through which he/she has accessed the website or through an e-mail. Please download the common 
instructions for filling the examination application and adhere strictly to those instructions. Any amendment 
done in the application after obtaining a printout of the application will not be considered valid. Incomplete 
applications will be rejected without notice.
 III.  The examination fee is Rs. 600/-. Online payment should be made only through the below mentioned methods.
  (i) Credit card of any Bank
  (ii) A debit card with online payment facility
  (iii) Online banking method, Bank of Ceylon
  (iv) Any branch of the Bank of Ceylon (Slip Payment)
  (v) Payment at a Post Office
Note.- 02. Instructions for payment through above method will be published under technical instructions relevant for 
examination in the website.
 IV .  The receipt of payment will be informed through sms or an e-mail. The examination fee should be paid in full 
and applications with more or less than the prescribed examination fee will be rejected. The Department of 
examinations shall not be held responsible for errors in payment of examination fee through the above method.
 V .  The examination fee, once paid shall not be refunded for any reason whatsoever and is not transferrable for any 
other examination.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1489
 VI.  The Signature of the applicant should be attested in both the application and the admission card. An applicant 
from the public service/ Provincial public Service/ Public corporation should get his/her signature attested by 
the Head of the Institution or any other officer authorized by the Head and in the case of other candidates he/she 
should get his/her signature attested by the Head of a government school/ retired officer, Grama Niladhari of the 
Division, Justice of the peace, Commissioner of oaths, Attorney - at - Law, Notary public, a commissioned officer 
of the tri-forces, a permanent staff officer in public or provincial public service, the cheif incumbent Buddhist 
monk of a Buddhist Vihara, the incumbent of a place of worship of any other religion or religious dignitary of any 
other religion. 
Note.- 03. Candidates will not be permitted to the examination hall without the admission card. The candidate should only 
hand over the admission card with their signatures attested to the Chief Examiner. Issue of an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as fulfillment of qualifications to sit for the examination or for the post.
 VII.  On the presumption that applications have been forwarded only by persons who have fulfilled the qualifications 
reffered to in the Gazette notification admission cards will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
to the applicants who have submitted duly completed applications along with the receipt obtained by paying the 
prescribed examination fee on or before the closing date of applications. Immediately after the issue of admission 
cards to the applicants, an advertisement to that effect will be published in newspapers and official website of 
the Department of Examination. If the admission is not received even after two or three days of publishing the 
advertisement the applicant should be inquire from the Institutional Examinations Organization Branch of the 
Department of Examinations as mentioned in the advertisement. When inquiring the name of the Examination 
applied for, full name, address and NIC number of the applicant should be mentioned. If you are an applicant 
outside Colombo, you should notify the Department of the examinations by fax using the fax number stated in the 
notice, along with the above particulars and a letter of request furnishing a fax number to send you a copy of the 
admission card by fax. Moreover, in the event of inquiring from the Department of the Examinations it would be 
more useful to keep copies of the application, receipt obtained for payment of examination fee and the registered 
post receipt obtained for posting the application in order to confirm any information requested by the Department 
of Examinations. The admission cards will be published in the official website of the Department of Examinations 
a few days prior to the date of examination and the applicants could download the same.
 VIII.  The Commissioner General holds the power of postponing or cancelling the examination.
 IX.  The candidates shall be subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
in respect of holding the examination and issue of results. If these rules and regulations are violated the candidate 
shall be liable to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Issue of an admission 
card to a candidate for the examination shall not be considered as fulfillment of qualifications required for the 
post. If it is discovered that the applicant is ineligible when the qualifications are scrutinized at the interview as 
stated in the notice  his/her candidature will be cancelled.
 X.  The candidate should prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Cheif Examiner for 
each subject he/she appears. Any one of the following documents shall be accepted for this purpose.
  a). National Identity Card
  b). Valid Passport
  c). Valid Driving License

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'12'10
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.12.2021
1490
   Furthermore, the candidates should enter the examination hall without covering their faces or ears, so that their 
identity could be confirmed. The candidates who refuse to confirm their identity will not be admitted to the 
examination hall. The candidates should stay without covering their faces or ears until  they leave the examination 
hall.
 Xi.  issue of results
   The result sheet, including the names of the candidates who secure 40% or more marks for each subject at the 
written examination will be sent to the Commissioner General of Labour of the Department of Labour. Results 
will be personally posted to every candidate who appeared for the examination or published in the website  
www.results.exams.gov.lk.
Note.- 04. Issue of admission card to a candidate should not be considered as a fulfillment of qualifications required to sit 
for the examination or for the post.
10. Penalty for furnishing False Information:
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination . If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are false, or if he/she 
has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she shall be dismissed from the Public Service.
11. Commissioner General of Labour has the power to not to fill some or all the vacancies and to take decisions on any matter 
for which this notice does not provide.
12. In the event of a discrepancy between the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of this notice, the Sinhala version shall 
prevail.
   
B. k. PraBatH CHandrakeertHi
   Commissioner General of Labour,
   Department of Labour,
   Labour Secretariat,
   Narahenpita,
   colombo 05.
Date :  06.12.2021
12 - 401
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.