

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1793$3 - 2013 ckjdß ui 15 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2013'01'15
No. 1793/3  - TUESDAY ,  JANUARY   15,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
L.D.B. 25/73.
SPORTS  LAW,  No. 25  OF  1973
REGULA TIONS made by the Minister of Sports under Section 41 and read with Section 31 of the Sports Law No. 25 of 1973.
MAHINDANANDA  ALUTHGAMAGE ,
Minister of Sports.
Colombo,
15th January, 2013.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the National Associations of Sports Regulations, No. 01 of 2013.
2. Every application for a registration of National Association of Sports in respect of any sport described in
Schedule II hereto shall be made to the Minister to whom the subject of Sports is assigned and shall be substantially in Form
A set out in the Schedule hereto and shall be signed by the President and Secretary of such National Association. The duly
completed application shall be handed over to the Director-General.
3. Every application for the registration of a National Association of Sports shall be accompanied by :-
(a) a copy of the Constitution of the National Association ;
(b) copies of the Minutes of the last three Annual General Meetings of such National Association certified by
the Secretary of such Association, or where such National Association was formed within three years of
marking such application for registration, copies of the Minute of every Annual General Meeting ;
(c) the copies of the audited statements of accounts of such National Association presented at the last three
Annual General Meetings or where such National Association was formed within three years of making such
application for registration, the copies of all audited statements of accounts presented at Annual General
Meetings ;
(d) names and addresses of the present office-bearers and committee members of such National Association ;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
2A
(e) names and address of all affiliates of such National Association together with the number in each such
affiliated body, and where a club or an organization is affiliated to a Provincial Association, District Association,
Federation, League or any other Organization which is affiliated to the National Association, the names,
address and number of the members of the affiliates of such Provincial Association, District Association,
Federation, League or other Organization ;
(f) The Director-General of Sports may prior to registering any National Association call for any additional
information as is deemed to be necessary.
4. The Director-General shall maintain a Register of National Associations registered with the Ministry of Sports.
The Register shall be substantially in Form B set out in the Schedule I hereto.
5. The Minister shall, if he is satisfied that the National Association applying for registration has complied with the
provisions of the Law, and the regulations made thereunder, direct the Director-General to inform the National Association to
remit a sum of Rupees Five Thousand being the registration fee.
6. On receipt of the registration fee the Director-General shall register such National Association and shall issue to
such National Association a Certificate of Registration which shall be substantially in Form C set out in the Schedule I hereto.
Such Certificate shall, unless earlier cancelled or suspended, be conclusive evidence for all purposes that the National
Association specified therein had been duly registered.
7. Each National Association shall be composed of affiliates which may be a combination of registered clubs and
other organizations as may be determined by such National Association subjected to the approval of the Director-General.
8. Every National Association shall have a provision in its Constitution to ensure that there are a minimum of two
representatives of relevant School Associations in the Executive Committee of such National Association. Every National
Association when approving the Constitution of the relevant School Associations shall ensure that there is provision in
such Constitution for the appointment of representatives from the National Associations to its Committees.
9. All School Associations shall comply with the rules and regulations of the National Association pertaining to the
relevant Sport with a view to developing mutual cooperation between National Association and the School Associations.
10. Every National Association shall have a provision in its Constitution that the committee meetings of such
Associations to be held at-least once a month and that at least one representative of the School Associations should be
present at such meetings.
11. The National Association shall register clubs and other organizations engaged in the particular Sport or group
of Sport for which a National Association has been formed. Any National Association which is approved by the Ministry of
Sports shall be eligible for registration with relevant World Governing of Body.
12. (1) The Office-bearers and committee members of a National Association shall be elected at the Annual General
Meeting for a term which shall consist of a period of two years. Any vacancy occurring in the office of President, Secretary
or Treasury may be filled at a Special General Meeting. Any other vacancy may be filed at a Committee Meeting subject to
ratification at the Annual General Meeting.
(2) The Minister may appoint to the Committee of a National Association one person who have had experience or
have qualifications or shown capacity in the field of sports, for such period as may be determined by the Minister, in addition
to the Office-bearers and Committee Members elected at the Annual General Meeting.
(3) The Director-General may, after inquiry, remove from the Committee, the representatives of any club affiliated to
a  National Association which has been inactive.  A club is considered to be inactive if such club has not taken part in any
tournament approved by the Association during the previous calendar year.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
3A
13. (1) No person who has served a term of office as President, Secretary, Treasurer, Vice-President, Assistant
Secretary, Assistant Treasurer of any National Association or Federation for one term shall be eligible for re-election for any
of the above positions :
Provided that the above restriction shall not apply if the written permission of the Minister to whom the subject of
Sports has been assigned is obtained for such re-election of office bearers.
(2) The Minister may upon a consideration of the tenure of office of the office-bearers seeking re-election and in
particular under mentioned matters, in consultation with the Director-General grant permission for re-election of such persons,
for a period of one more term :-
(a) the extent of involvement in the development of Sport at Provincial, District and Divisional levels ;
(b) action taken to -
(i) uplift the standard of sports to the level of International Ranking ;
(ii) to increase the level of performance of the respective National Team ;
(iii) to identify talented sports persons ;
(iv) to ensure transparency in sport administration .
Provided that, the period during which a person serves in any one of the said positions, shall not in the aggregate
exceed four years.
14. No person shall be nominated for election as an Office-bearer or Committee Member in any National Association,
other than the Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer of that Association unless he has represented Sri Lanka in that respective
sports or in a Major Tournament, meet or competition registered, promoted, conducted or approved by that Association, in
more than two occasions for a team sport and at least on one occasion for an individual event or sport. Any other person may
be nominated for election with the prior written approval of the Minister.
15. (1) A person shall be disqualified from being elected or otherwise to hold or continue to hold any paid or unpaid
office or to hold any paid or unpaid post or to be a member of a Committee of any National Association or to be nominee of
an affiliated club or organization in a National Association, if :-
(a) he is or has been adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound mind ;
(b) he is or has been adjudged by a competent court to be an insolvent ;
(c) he is or has been convicted in a court of law for any offence and imprisonment for not less than six
months ;
(d) he is a professional journalist in electronic or print media or an owner of such network ;
(e) he is a parent or sibling of a competitor in that particular Sports in National Pool or National Team ;
(f) he is currently a coach or referee of a team or an individual competitor but if there is no other eligible
competitor from that Association, such person should obtain permission of the Minister ;
(g) he is a player, agent or manager of a Sports personnel ;
(h) he is a non-national of Sri Lanka ;
(i) he is directly or indirectly involved in the manufacture, assembly, production, sale or distribution of sports
goods, gear any item or equipment relating or such Sport ;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
4A
(j) he is directly or indirectly involved in carrying out the business of gaming ;
(k) he is employed in the Ministry of Sports unless the written approval of the Minister has been obtained ;
(l) he is an member of the Armed Forces who has been deprived of his Commission ;
(m) he is convicted for the offence money laundering under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering
Act, No. 5 of 2006 ; or
(n) a person who represented the country with the approval of the Minister of  Sports for an activity related to
sport and had not returned on time.
(2) The Minister shall upon being satisfied after due inquiry, that a person is disqualified from being elected or
otherwise, to hold or continue to hold any paid or unpaid post or to be a member of a committee of any National Association
or to be the nominee of an affiliated club or organization in a National Association, under paragraph (1) of this regulation,
forthwith direct that such person be removed from the said office, post, Committee or be removed from his position of
nominee.
16. All nominations for elections as Office-bearers and Committee Member of a National Association shall be
proposed by the President of Secretary of any member club or organization eligible to vote and seconded by the President  or
Secretary of any other member club or organization eligible to vote. Such nomination together with the  their Bio-Data shall
be handed in or posted to reach the Director-General at least thirty days before the date fixed for the Annual General Meeting.
Thereafter the Director-General or Director-General's representative shall open the nominations at a special Committee
Meeting of such Association. A copy of nomination papers with applicants Bio-Data shall be sent to the Ministry at least
thirty days before the Annual General Meeting.
17. Every Annual General Meeting of any National Association shall be held at a venue, date and time which are
decided by the National Association and with the approval of  the Director-General. The elections and decisions at General
Meeting and Annual General  Meeting of any National Association shall be by secret vote and the details of the voting shall
be recorded in the minutes of such meeting. The Director-General's representative shall be present at that time.
18. Every National Association shall forward Bio Data of the Office-bearers and Committee Members elected to such
Association, to the Director-General within fourteen days of the election of such Committee Members and Office-bearers of
such Association.
19. (1) The Minister shall appoint Selection, Ranking and Ceeding Committees of a National Association among
persons who has represented the country in any Sport or participated in Major Tournaments, Competitions, or meets for more
that three occasions and shall not include any parent or sibling of Competitor of the Representive Sport. The National
Association shall forward names of ten persons to such Committee for consideration. The Minister may consider persons
nominated by the Committee of the National Association in respect of which such appointments are to be made.
(2) The National Association shall with the concurrence of the National Selectors, draft a  Selection Criteria
Policy :
(3) The Minister may if he considers it expedient to do so remove from office any member of a Committee appointed
by him, under paragraph (1) with any reasons.
(4) Any person appointed in place of a member who has vacated office by death, resignation or removal shall hold
office for the unexpired period of term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
20.  Any member of a Selection, Ranking or Seeding Committee of a National Association or a coach of that Sport
shall not be eligible for selection to any team to be selected by the Selection Committee of that National Association :

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
5A
Provided that the person selected as Captain of any team (not being  Selector) and the National Coach may be
co-opted to the Committee to select the other members of that team.
21. (1) The National Selection Committee shall submit to the Minister the names of the players who have been
selected for National Team in Sri Lanka or overseas stating the criteria for such selection. The names of selected players shall
not be disclosed until the written approval of the Minister is obtained.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this regulation shall not apply to the selection of a club or other  team which
is not a national or representative in composition or any individual taking part in his own capacity with his own resources
which is not a national in composition.
22. (1) A person shall not be appointed by a National Association as a delegate or representative of Sri Lanka to any
International Association unless such person -
(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka who has  represented a Sri Lanka an affiliated club or organization in the Sport
promoted by that Association ; or
(b) being a  former National of Sri Lanka who has represented a Sri Lanka Team, an affiliated club or organization
in the Sport  promoted by that Association ;
(c) being a non-citizen who has represented the Sri Lankan team in the Sport promoted by the National Association.
Provided that if any person does not possess the above criteria, the Minister may, with the recommendation of the
National Association  appoint any person who has experience in the administration of such Association for more than two
years.
23. Every National Association  shall embody in its constitution the manner of representation and voting rights of
its affiliated clubs and other organizations.
24. Any National Association  shall not  grant any voting rights to any of its affiliates until the lapse of a period of
at least twelve months from the date of affiliation.
25. The Constitution of every National Association  shall be approved by the Director-General. Any National
Association, dissatisfied with the decision of the Director-General, may appeal to the Minister within thirty days of the date
on which such decision is conveyed to such Association and the decision of the Minister shall be final.
26. Every National Association shall hold an Annual General Meeting on or before the Thirty First of March each
year. The Financial Year of the Institute shall be calendar year. The election of the Office-bearers shall be conducted once in
two years and elected Office-bearers shall hold office for a period of two years.
27. Every National Association shall at its Annual General Meeting table an Annual Report and Statement of
Accounts in respect of the preceding financial year.
28. Every National Association shall submit an audited statement of accounts certified by a Chartered Accountant
and the Annual Report in respect of that financial year to the Minister within three months of the end of every financial year.
29. At least forty days notice of an Annual General Meeting shall be submitted by every National Association to its
affiliates. The Annual Report and the list of the members entitled to be present and to vote at the Annual General Meeting
shall be attached to such notice. Such notice shall also specify the number of votes each affiliate is entitled to exercise. The
affiliate exercising such vote shall ensure that he shall act in accordance with the mandate given by each club. A certified copy
of the audited statement of accounts, of the preceding financial year to be sent at least two weeks prior to the Annual General
Meeting to all members along with the list of nominees.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
6A
30. (1) Every club or affiliate, which has participated in at least two contests approved and conducted by the
National Association in the previous year shall be eligible to vote at the Annual General Meeting of a National Association.
(2) Names of players who have participated in such tournament or contest should be submitted prior to such
Annual General Meeting.
(3) Each club or affiliate, shall submit a declaration that it has acted throughout the year in compliance with its
Constitution, and an audited statement of accounts shall be submitted annually.
(4) Every club or affiliate shall hold the Annual General Meeting and elect the Office-bearers at least sixty days
prior to the Annual General Meeting of the National Association.
31. If an Annual General Meeting is postponed due to a lack of a quorum, fourteen days notice should be given to
re-conduct the meeting with same agenda. In the event of there being no quorum at the re-convened meeting, the Annual
General Meeting shall be held with the members present.
32. Every National Association  shall appoint a Disciplinary Committee at the commencement of its term of office.
Such Disciplinary Committee  should include a representative of the Ministry of the Minister to whom the subject of Sports
is assigned.
33. Every National Association shall appoint District co-ordinators who shall be responsible for the co-ordination of
activities of clubs in the relevant districts and report to the National Association.
34. The National Association after election of Office-bearers within two months shall submit to the Minister the
programme of work for the development of the sports .
35. Any National Association desirous of obtaining grants from the Ministry shall submit a comprehensive budget
within two months after the Annual General Meeting.
36. Every National Associations shall have a Technical Committee comprising of persons who have been actively
involved in the Sports as National Players, Coaches, Umpires or Referees. They shall advise the National Association with
regard to the Technical Development of the Sport and approve the Game Development Plan and the Tournament structure.
37. Every National Sports Association shall cause to be maintained a register of agents, managers or coaches of
individual sport personnel of whom they represent.
38. (1) If any grant or funds is received from aboard as donations or grants or assistance from the World Governing
Body or a similar body, the National Association shall follow and comply with the rules and conditions imposed by the donor
agency and prior approval from the Ministry shall be obtained before entering into any agreement. The Association shall
follow the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and copy of such award and the manner of utilisation of funds should be
submitted to the Secretary. All such grants or funds shall be channelled through the Department of External Resources of the
Ministry of Finance.
(2) Every National Association shall be subject to and follow the applicable Government tender procedures in
respect to procurement and award of tenders for which funds have been received from the Government or funds raised locally
or internationally.
(3) Every National Association entering into any agreement to conduct any international sports events in Sri Lanka
shall obtain prior approval from the Minister by submitting a comprehensive proposal including the details of participating
countries, budgets, number of participants, dates, venues, facilities required or available to conduct such events and all other
important information to evaluate the proposal. The proposal should be submitted three months prior to leaving for any
international meeting in which the National Association is planning to propose Sri Lanka as the hosting nation.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
7A
39. Any person suspended for any breach of discipline shall be served with a charge sheet within one week of such
suspension. The disciplinary inquiry in this regard shall be concluded within six weeks from the date the charge sheet is
served and the result be conveyed to the Minister.
40. Every National Association shall submit a copy of the minutes of the Annual General Meeting to the Minister,
within fourteen days of the date of such meeting.
41.Every National Association  shall furnish to the Director-General within six months which commencing from the
each year reports with regard to all monies, equipment and other resources received by the Association from local or foreign
sources and six months progress report with regard to the activities performed by the Association during that period. These
reports shall be forwarded to the National Sports Council for its review and observations.
42. Every Office-bearer or Committee Member of a National Association who ceases to hold office shall within
fourteen days from the date on which he ceases to hold such office shall handover any property of such National Association
in his possession to any Office-bearer or Committee Member to the Director-General of Sports.
43. Every National Association shall maintain a Register of its affiliates substantially in Form D of Schedule I hereto.
44. Every National Association shall have power to cancel the membership of any of its Affiliates after a disciplinary
inquiry in accordance with the Law.
45. Every National Association  shall register, appoint and train Coaches, Referees, Judges and other officials of
such National Association  as may be required by the Ministry. The appointment of Coaches, Referees, Judges and other
officials shall be subject to the guidelines of the World Governing Body and on the basis of such criteria, including examinations,
as may be approved by the Minister on the recommendation of the Director-General.
46. Every National Association  shall furnish to the Secretary all information required by him relating to the exercise,
discharge and performance by such Association of its powers, duties and functions.
47. Every National Association shall register all particulars relating to persons who take part in competitions conducted
by that Association as may be required by the Director-General.
48. Every National Association shall in the selection of players of National Teams shall follow any direction issued
by the Minister.
49. The Selection, Ranking and Seeding such Committees of every National Association shall at the beginning of
each year forward to such Association and the Director-General. The achievement records of each player who participated in
ranking tournaments during the previous year.
50. The Director-General shall monitor the activities of National Sport Polls, National Associations and issue guide
lines for the selection of National Teams.
51. The  Director-General shall ensure that the approved National Crest or the National Honored Crest to be worn by
all players representing Sri Lanka in International Sports events.
52. Every National Association shall promote and develop the Sport which it represent at every level and improve
the facilities of such Sport in order to increase the participation of players of such Sport.
53. The Managers of National Teams and delegated representing National Associations abroad, shall furnish to the
Minister through the Secretary of the relevant National Association , a report of any foreign sports tours, by such team or
delegate within fourteen days of their return to Sri Lanka.
54. (1)  Where any person, body, club, organization or affiliate is aggrieved by the decision of its National Associations
such person, body, club, organization or affiliate may submit a written appeal to the Minister within a period of fourteen days
from the date on which such decision was conveyed to such person, body, club, organization or an affiliate.
5 — PG  001521

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
8A
(2) The order of the Minister on such appeal shall be given effect to by such National Association.
55. (1) Upon interim arrangements being made by the Minister in terms of Section 33 of the Law, any person or
persons entrusted with the task of continuing the functions of a National Association of Sports, which Association is under
suspension or whose registration has been refused or cancelled shall manage all movable or immovable property which is
owned by or in the lawful possession of such National Association, as trustees of such National Association and shall take
steps necessary to manage and control such movable and immovable property to the office bearers of the National Association
of Sports. In this respect taking over and handing over of such movable or immovable property which is owned by, or in the
lawful possession of, such National Association should properly documented and recorded while a copy of the same should
be submitted to the Director-General.
(2) It shall be the duty of the persons entrusted with continuing of such National Association to conduct their
functions diligently and to manage and control the property entrusted to them diligently.
(3) The person or persons appointed under any interim arrangements in terms of Section 33 of the Law for continuing
the functions of a National Association of Sports under suspension or whose registration has been refused or cancelled,
shall enjoy all the powers, rights and privileges as those enjoyed by the National Association of Sports, whose registration
has  been suspended, canceled or refused including inter alia the rights to enter into any contracts, agreements, operate bank
accounts and the said person or persons shall be fully empowered to continue all the affiars of the National Association of
Sports whose registration has been suspended, cancelled or refused and shall enter into new arrangements or projects as the
said person or persons may deem fit for continuing the functions of the National Association of Sports whose registration
has been suspended, canceled or refused.
(4) Upon the conclusion of the period of an interim arrangment made in terms of Section 33 of the law, the office
bearers of  a National Association of Sports, shall be obliged and shall be legally mandated to uphold and honour decisions
including inter alia, contracts, agreements and decisions entered into or taken by the person or persons appointed by the
Minister for continuing the functions of a National Association of Sports, whose registration has been suspended, canceled
or refused.
56. The National Association of Sports Regulations, No. 2 of 1973 published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 110/3 of
May 7, 1974 as amended by regulations published in Gazette Extraordinary No's 155/66 of March 02, 1975, No. 203/3 of
March 08, 1976, No. 252/8 of  February 17, 1977, No. 259/8 of April 07, 1977, No. 167/6 of November 19, 1981, No. 496/8 of
March 08, 1988, No. 1222/16 of February 07, 2002 No. 1225/7 of February 25, 2002, No. 1285/12 of  April 23, 2003, No. 1389/24
of  May 21, 2005 and No. 1558/11 of July 16, 2008, are hereby rescinded.
57. In these regulations unless the context other wise requires -
"Law" means, the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973 ;
"Director General" means, the Director General of Sports appointed under The Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973 ;
"Major tournament" , "meet" or "competition" means, a tournament, meet or competition as may from time to
time be approved by the Minister on a recommendation made in that behalf by a National Association ;
"movable property" means, all money lying with the Association or held to its credit in a bank or financial
institution whether it being in Government securities, treasury bills, debentures or any other investment ;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
9A
SCHEDULE I
(Regulations 3)
Form  A
APPLICATION  FOR  REGISTRATION  OF  A  NATIONAL  ASSOCIATION
1. Name of  National Association : …………………
2. Address : …………………
3. Date of formation of the National Association : ………………… which is an Association (Name of Association)
………………… of members engaged in the promotion of ………………… .
4. The following documents are attached to this application ; …………………
5. Date of the Annual General Meeting at which the present office-bearers and Committee Members mentioned above
were elected : …………………
The application is being made consequent to a Resolution passed at the General Meeting of the …………………
(name of National Association) duly authorising the submission of the Application of Registration.
Signature of President of  National Association : ………………… .
Name and Address : ………………… .
Date : ………………….
Signature of Secretary : …………………
Name and Address : ………………… .
Signature of Applicant : ………………… .
FORM  B
(Regulation 4)
Certificate of Registration of a National Association
Name of National Association : ………………… It is hereby certified that the ………………… has  been registered
under Section 29 of the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973 as the National Association for ………………… with effect from this
………………… day of ………………… 20…………… The registration number is granted to the Association is …………………
.
Date : ………………… Minister of Sports.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
10A
FORM  C
(Regulation 6)
Part A
REGISTER  OF  MEMBERS  DIRECTLY  AFFILIATED  TO  NATIONAL  ASSOCIATIONS
1. Name of the National Association : …………………
2. Name of Affiliate Body : …………………
3. Address : …………………
4. Number of Members : …………………
5. Number of representatives allowed to be present at Annual General Meetings ; …………………
6. Number of votes allowed to members as Annual General Meetings : …………………
7. Names of Members : …………………
8. Names and Address of office bearers with titles : …………………
9. Names and Address of members of the Committees ; …………………
PART B
REGISTER OF MEMBERS AFFILIATED TO PROVINCIAL ASSOCIATIONS, DISTRICT ASSOCIA TIONS, FEDERATIONS,
LEAGUES OR ANY OTHER ORGANIZATIONS WHICH ARE AFFILIATED TO THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS.
1. Name of Provincial Association, District Association, Federation, League or any other Organization : …………………
2. Address : …………………
3. Name of affiliate body : …………………
4. Address : …………………
5. Number of members : …………………
6. Names and Address of Office bearers with titles : …………………
7. Names and Address of Members of the Committees : …………………

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'01'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.01.2013
11A
Annex 11
1. Badminton
2. Aquatic Sports
3. Body Building
4. Cycling
5. Rifle
6. Hockey
7. Karate Do
8. Yachting
9. Rugby Football
10. Weightlifting
11. Gymnastic
12. Golf
13. Wrestling
14. Automobile Sports
15. Basket Ball
16. Athletic
17. Cricket
18. Netball
19. Tennis
20. Bridge
21. Carrom
22. Life Saving
23. Boxing
24. Judo
25. Billiards & Snooker
26. Football
27. V olleyball
28. Elle
29. Chess
30. Rowing
31. Table Tennis
32. Squash
33. Taekwondo
34. Softball Cricket
35. Power lifting
36. Kabaddi
37. Sports for the Disabled
38. Motor Cycle Sports
39. Baseball
40. Wushu
41. Throw ball
42. Archery
43. Equestrain
44. Traditional Karate
45. Handball
46. Tag of War
47. Shooting
48. Fencing
02 - 14
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.