

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
537
537
¡â¤ 1 ,501 _ 2007  °Œ¾ł  08 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .06.08
No. 1,501 – FRIDAY ,  JUNE 08, 2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 540
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 543
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th June, 2007 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 01st June, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.:–Quarterly statement of books for July - September 2002 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
538
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
539
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
540
Posts - Vacant
POST  OF  REGISTRARS  OF  BIRTHS,  DEATHS  AND  MARRIAGES  OF  THE  REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S
DEPARTMENT — RATNAPURA  DISTRICT
Notice of Cancellation
THE following divisions which appeared in the notice of calling for applications for the posts of registrars of Births, Deaths and
Marriages of Ratnapura District which was published by me in para II - a of part - 1 of the Gazette No. 1457 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka dated 04th Friday of August 2006 are hereby cancelled for purpose of implementation of new recruitment
scheme. These divisions will be republished in the gazette.
SCHEDULE
Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
District Secretary's applications are called applications should be
Division sent
Ratnapura Ratnapura Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/Additional
(Kandyan and General) in Registrar General, District
Kuruwita Korale Division and Secretariat, Ratnapura.
Births and Death in Gileemale
South Division.
Ratnapura Embilipitiya Post of Registrar of marriages do.
(Kandyan and General) in
Atakalan Korale Division and
Births and Death in Pallebedda
South Division.
Ratnapura Kolonna Post of Registrar of marriages do.
(Kandyan and General) in
Kolonna Korale Division and
Births and Death in Kempane
South Division.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
15th May, 2007.
06-189
CANCELLATION  OF NOTICES OF CALLING FOR APPLICATIONS FOR THE V ACANT POSTS OF
 MARRIAGE, BIRTH & DEATH REGISTRARS IN THE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT
I do hereby publish as below the notice of calling for applications to fill the vacancies in the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrars.
This Notice is hereby cancelled for implement of new scheme of recruitment of marriage, Birth and Death Registrars (2006).
Accordingly applications already sent by the applicants as response to the said notification are returned to them by registered post.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
541
The relevant notice will be republished in the gazette  if necessary arises to fill the vacancies.
District Division of the The Division & the Post Particulars
Divisional for which applications pertaining to
Secretary are called Gazette Notification of
calling for applications
01. Badulla Badulla Post of Medical Registrar of Gazette No. 1443 of  Friday
Births & Deaths in Badulla 28.04.2006.
Town (Tamil Medium).
02. Badulla Soranathota Post of Registrar of Marriages -Do-
(General) in Wiyaluwa Division
and Births & Deaths in Soranathota
Division.
03. Badulla Lunugala Post of Registrar of Marriages -Do-
(General) in Yatikinda Division
and Births & Deaths in Pattipola
Division.
04. Badulla Lunugala Post of Registrar of Marriages -Do-
(General) in Wiyaluwa Division
and Births & Deaths in Oya
Palatha Division.
05. Kandy Panwila Post of Registrar of Marriages Gazette No. 1425 of
(General) in Pathadumbara 23.12.2005
Division and Births & Deaths
in Pathadumbara East Division.
(Tamil Medium)
06. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births Gazette No. 1368 of
and Deaths in Modera Division 19.11.2004
(Tamil Medium)
07. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births -Do-
and Deaths in Maradana Division
(Tamil Medium)
08. Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births -Do-
and Deaths in Slave Island Division
(Tamil Medium)
09. Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Medical Registrar of Births -Do-
and Deaths in Colombo General
Hospital Division (Tamil Medium)
10. Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Medical Registrar of Births -Do-
and Deaths in Wellawatta Division
(Tamil Medium)
11. Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Medical Registrar of Births -Do-
and Deaths in De Soysa Women's
Hospital Division (Tamil Medium)
L. K. R
ATNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
06-190

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
542
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
Calling for Applications for the Post of Health Education
Officer
APPLICATIONS are invited for the vacancies in the Post of Health
Education Officer in institutions under the control of the Ministry
of Healthcare and Nutrition. Applications should be prepared as per
form of specimen attached to this letter and sent under registered
post to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
No. 385, "Suwasiripaya", Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10,  on or before 16.07.2007. The words “Post
of Health Education Officer” should be written on the top left hand
corner of the envelope.
01. Salary.—Rs. 14,930 — 150 x 7 — 240 x 9 — 290 x 10 —
320 x 15 — 25,840 In terms of P.A. Circular No. 06/2006 (MT - 06-
2006)
02. Should be not less than 18 and not more than 45 years of age.
The maximum age limit will not apply for those in the Public Service
or Provincial Public Service.
03. Educational and other Qualifications :
I. Without Post Graduate / Diploma
(a) Public Health Inspector Certificate of Royal Health
Society (English) or Certificate of Diploma issued
by the National Institute of Health Science, Kalutara
or Certificate of Proficiency in Nursing issued by
the Department of Health Services or Certificate of
Registration of the Sri Lanka Medical Council as a
Midwife or a Certificate of Proficiency in a facility
of Preventive and Surgical Principles and Technical
Theories in children's Dental Care.
- and -
(b) Science or Art Degree from a recognized University
and full time one year experience in health
education activities.
II. With Post Graduate M. A. or Diploma.– In addition to the
qualifications in 03.I (a) and (b) above a Post Graduate
M.A. or Post Graduate Diploma.
04. Efficiency Bar Examination.—Should pass the Efficiency Bar
Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment to the
post.
05. Method of Recruitment.—The eligible applicant will be se-
lected by structural interview based on a marking scheme approved
by the Public Service Commission and method of awarding marks is
as follows :
1. Interview - 10
2. Covering up duties of a Health
Education Officer full time
(For a period exceeding one
year, 05 points per year.
Maximum - 25 marks) - 25
3. I. Post Graduate Degree or a
Post Graduate Diploma
from a recognized
university - 20
- 20II. Certificate of Diploma in
Social Services from the
Social Science College
or any equal certificate of
Diploma from a recognized
institution - 10
4. Researches and studies :-
Researches and publications done
by an applicant himself pertaining
to the subject, 05 points per each
- 
Maximum  15
5. Implementation of Health
Education Project :-
I. For active contribution for
a project evaluated at national
level, 05 points per project
II. For projects evaluated at
provincial level, - Maximum 15
03 points per project
III. For projects evaluated at
district level, 02 points per
project
6. Language Proficiency.-
Skill in working in another
language other than the mother - 15
tongue, 05 points per each
language ———
100
=====
06. Service conditions.—The post is permanent and pensionable
and the employee should contribute to the widows/widowers and
orphans Pensions scheme.
07. The persons who are already in the public service should
submit their applications through the relevant Head of Department.
 
 
 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
543
08. Application will not be acknowledged. Applications which
do not conform to the requirments of this notice will be rejected.
By orders of Public Service Commission.
Dr. H. A. P. KAHANDALIYANAGE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
24th May, 2007,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
SPECIMEN  FORM
A
PPLICA TION  FOR  THE  POST  OF  HEALTH  EDUCATION  OFFICER  IN THE
M INISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  AND  NUTRITION
01. (a) Name with initials :————,
(b) Names denoted by initials :————,
02. Address :
(a) Private :————,
(b) Official :————,
(Officers who are in the Public Service / Provincial Public
Service / Corporation should give their official addresses.
Any change in the address should be notified forthwith)
03. (a) Date of Birth :————,
(b) Age as at closing date of applications :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————,
04. Sex :————,
05. Educational and other qualifications :————,
06. Experience in the Health Education Subject :————,
07. Present Post :
(a) Post :————,
(b) Department / Institution :————,
(c) Date of appointment :————,
(d) Whether Permanent or temporary :————,
(e) Whether confirmed in the appointment :————,
(f) Salary scale attached to the post and the present salary :
————,
I do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that any information
given in this application were found incorrect or false after
appointment. I would be disqualified and dismissed from the post
without payment of any compensation.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————,
Report of the head of the institution if the employee is serving in a
Ministry / Department :
Mr./Mrs./Miss. ..................................................................... is
permanently employed in this institution and agree to release if he /
she in selected to the post stated above.
————,
Signature of the Head of the Ministry/Department.
Date :————,
06-244
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade
III of the Sri Lanka foreign Service - 2007
AN  Examination for the selection of suitable candidates for
recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Foreign Service (hereinafter
referred to as the “Service”) will be held in Colombo by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations on behalf of the Public
Service Commission.
02. Scheme and date of the Examination - The Examination will
be held in 02 parts.
Part I  is a written Examination which will consist of question
papers in the following subjects and will be held in Colombo
in September, 2007.
(i) General Paper
(ii) World Affairs I
(iii) World Affairs II
(iv)Essay
(v) Précis
(vi) Aptitude and General knowledge (Multiple Choice
Questions)
Part II Only candidates who have sat all six papers of the written
Examination and have obtained the aggregate marks at or above
the cut off point to  be determined by the Secretary/Foreign
Affairs, which will be not less than 300 marks, shall be called
for the viva voce, provided however the number of candidates
to be called shall not exceed five times the number of vacancies
to be filled. The viva voce will carry 100 marks.
03. Number of Vacancies :– The number of vacancies in Grade III
of the Sri Lanka  Foreign Service, to be filled on the results of this
Examination, and the date of filling of such vacancies will be
determined by the Public Service Commission. The Public Service
Commission reserves itself the right to refrain from filling any or all
of the vacancies if it considers necessary in the public interest.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
544
04. Conditions of Service.
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph 03 above, the
candidates who are selected on the results of this
Examination will be appointed to grade III of the Sri Lanka
Foreign Service in terms of the general conditions
governing appointments in the Public Service and the terms
and conditions set out in the Sri Lanka foreign Service
Minute 2001, subject to any amendments that may have
been made or will be made here after to that Minute.
(b) The post is permanent and pensionable.
05. Salary :- Salary Scale  (per month) - Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 -
 8 x790 - 17 x 1050 - Rs. 53,555
* The Foreign Service Officers of Grade III are required to pass
Three Efficiency Bar Examination before reaching the following
monthly salary points.
First Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point of Rs. 24,225
Second Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point of
Rs. 27,450.
Third Efficiency Bar before reaching the salary point of
Rs. 31,965.
06. Health and Character - The candidate must satisfy the
Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs that he/she is of sound health
and that he/she has an excellent moral character. He/she should be
physically fit for  Service in any part of the world. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a special medical examination.
07. Eligibilty :-  A candidate must
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) have obtain a degree from
(i) a recognized University in Sri Lanka
(ii) a foreign University recognized by the University
Grant Commission of Sri Lanka  (UGC).
Documentary proof to this effect issued by the
UGC should be submitted by the candidate at the
time of viva voce.
(c ) have attained the age of 22 years and have not attained the
age of 30 years on the closing date of applications. In case
of a candidate who is already in the Public Service, such a
candidate must not have attained the age of 40 years on the
closing date of applications and should possess a
satisfactory record of service.
Notes : (i) For the purpose of clause 7 (c) a candidate in the public
Service means any officer who has been confirmed in the Public
Service (as defined in Chapter 1 of the Establishments Code,) Central
Government Service  and the Provincial Public Service by the closing
date of Application.
(ii) A candidate  in the Public Service will  not be eligible to sit this
examination unless he/she has had a satisfactory record of service
during the 05 years immediately preceding the closing date of
application or if the period of service is less than 05 years during the
total period of service with the Government.
(iii)  A member of the Public Service will be considered to have a
satisfactory record of service only if he/she has earned on the due
date, all increments within the 05 years immediately preceding the
closing date of application or  if the period of service is less than 05
years during the total period of his /her service in the respective
Institution, and has not suffered any punishment whatsoever (except
a warning) in respect of any offences committed  during the period as
mentioned above.
(iv) Applicants in the Public Service should send their applications
through their respective Heads of Departments/Institutions.
08. Fees for the examination.– The fee for the examination is
Rs. 300.
This fee should be paid before the closing date of applications at
the nearest District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or at the General
Treasury, Colombo and credited to the Revenue Head 2003-20-13.
The receipt issued for the payment should be attached to the
application.
Note : A candidate who withdraws himself/herself or is absent
from the examination for any reason whatsoever or having sat for the
examination is found to be ineligible, shall not be entitled to a refund
of the whole or portion of the examination fee.
09. Method of Application -
(a) The application should be in the form of the
specimen appended to this notification and should be
prepared by the candidate himself/herself on a sheet of
paper 8 1/2" x 12" (A-4 size) using both sides of the paper.
(b) The application should be in the language medium in which
the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) The completed application for the examination must be
sent by registered post to the Commissioner-General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations (Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch), Pelawatte, Battaramulla,
so as to reach him on or before 13th July, 2007. The top
lefthand corner of the envelope containing the application
should bear clearly the words "Open Competitive
Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Foreign Service - 2007" and English letter "S" should be
clearly indicated within a cage (2cm x 2cm) on the top of
the left side of the envelope. No application received after
this date will be accepted.
(d) Any application which is not complete in every respect is
liable to be rejected. No claim that an application has been
lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(e) Applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be
published in the newspapers as soon as Admission Cards
are issued. Applicants are advised to be on the look out for
such a notice.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
545
A candidate who does not receive his/her Admission Card at least
7 days before the day of the examination should, at once, notify
the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department of
Examinations  (Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch),
Pelawatte, Battaramulla, (Telegraphic address : "Exams", Battaramulla)
with the following particulars :
(i) Name of examination :
(ii)Full name of candidate :
(iii)Address;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registration number and
post office.
10. Admissions to the Examination-
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to those applicants who are eligible. A
candidate presenting himself/herself for the examination
must produce his/her admission card to the supervisor of
the examination center. A candidate who fails to produce
his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit the
Examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examiantion
hall assigned to him/her.
Every candidate should surrender to the supervisor of the
hall, the admission card relevant to the hall, on the first
day of his/her presenting himself/herself for the
examination at the hall. A set of rules to be observed by all
candidates is published in this Gazette.
Note : Issuance of admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications to sit the
examination.
11. Identification of Candidates - A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject he/she offers. For this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) a valid passport ;
(iii) a valid postal identity card issued by the Post Master-
General.
12. Penalty for furnishing false information - If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled, at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the
particulars furnished by a candidate are found to be false within his/
her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact
he/she will be liable to dismissal from the public Service.
13. Language of Examination-
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English;
(b) A candidate can sit the examination in one of the three
languages mentioned above.
However, the candidate must sit all the question papers  in
one language of his/her choice.
14. Method of Testing -
(A) Part I Written Examination : This will consist of following
six (06) question papers
Subjects Duration Marks
(i) General Paper 3 hours 100
(ii) World Affairs I 3 hours 100
(iii) World Affairs II 3 hours 100
(iv)Essay 3 hours 100
(v) Precis 1/2 hour 50
(vi) Aptitude and General
Knowledge 2 hours 100
Syllabus for Written Examination
(i)General Paper - This question paper is designe to test the
candidate's knowledge of the political, social, cultural and
economic environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current
national and international interest as well as scientific and
technological developments. Candidates are given a choice
of questions.
(ii)World Affairs I - This paper will consist of questions on
current global political developments, the United Nations
and other international/Intergovernmental Organizations,
conflict situations and development of various national
and international movements, in order to ascertain the
candidate's ability to analyze global trends for peace,
security and development and their impact on Sri Lanka.
Candidates are given a choice of questions.
(iii)World Affairs II - This paper will consist of questions on
recent trends in trade and economic development including
the role played by International/intergovernmental
Organizations, the impact of regional economic groupings,
issues such as environment and sustainable development,
and their relevance to Sri Lanka. Candidates are given a
choice of questions.
(iv)Essay - An essay to be written on one or more specified
subjects. These subjects will not be related to any subject
fielf of study but will be designed to test the candidate's
general knowledge and intelligence and his/her general ability
both in powers of thinking and expression. The essay will
be judged by the degree of thoughtfulness and originality
in its treatment of the subject as well as by its language,
style and presentation. It must be clearly and legibly
written.
Note : The attention of candidates is drawn to the
importance of relevance and legibility. Credit will be
given to careful examination of the subject to the degree
of analytical thinking, the quality of writing and ability
to express oneself concisely and clearly.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
546
(v) Precis - The question paper is designed to test the
candidate's ability to grasp the meaning of a given passage
and to express it effectively and concisely.
(vi)Aptitude and General Knowledge - This question paper
will be in two parts, comprising the following sections,
(a) Aptitude and General Knowledge Part I - To assess
the powers of logical reasoning and analytical ability
of the candidate (one hour duration)
(b) Aptitude and General Knowledge Part II - To test
the candidate's knowledge of current developments
in the political, economic and socio-cultural fields,
both local and international. (one hour duration)
(B) Part II - Viva-Voce - Candidates who obtain a sufficiently
high level of marks will be summoned for a viva-voce
which will carry 100 marks.
The candidates will be interviewed on matters of general
interest by a board appointed by the Public Service
Commission. The objective of the interview is to assess
his/her suitability for the service for which he/she is entering
and in framing their assessment the board will attach
particular importance to his/her intelligence and mental
alertness, his/her strength of charcter and his/her potential
qualities of leadership. A candidate's proficiency in other
languages, higher educational qualifications and computer
skills etc. will also be assessed at the interview.
15. Method of Selection for Appointment - The selection for
appointment will be made on the total aggregate of marks obtained at
the written examination and the viva-voce taken together. The final
selection for appointment will be made by the Public Service
Commission on the recommendation of the Secretary/Foreign Affairs.
16. Any matter not provided for in this Gazette Notification will
be dealt with as determined by Secretary/Foreign Affairs subject to
the instructions given by the Public Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
P
ALITHA  T. B. KOHONA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Republic Building,
Colombo 1,
22nd May, 2007.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of
The Sri Lanka Foreign Service - 2008
Medium of examination
Please write the appropriate No. in the cage
(Sinhala - 2, Tamil - 3, English - 4)
Index No. :––––––––––––
(For office use only)
01. (i) (a) Last Name with initials (in English block capitals) :
–––––––.
(b) Last Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil)
(ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :
–––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :
–––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Private (in English block capitals) :–––––––.
(Admission cards will be posted to this address)
(ii)Official :–––––––.
(iii) Telephone Nos. : (Official) :–––––. (Residence) :–––––.
03. Sex : M/F :
Please write appropriate No. in the cage
(Male-0, Female - 1)
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––.
05. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––. Month :–––––––. Day :–––––––.
(ii)Age on the closing date of application :
Years :–––––––. Months :–––––––. Days :–––––––.
06. Nationality :
07. Whether married or single : M/S
08. State the year/years in which you have sat for the examination
for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Foreign Service :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
09. Are you a graduate holding a post in the Public Service, If so,
state the name of the post.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .06.08
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.06.2007
547
10. Details of the University Degree : (Please read paragraph 7(i)
and 7 (ii) of the notification carefully to see whether you are
qualified in this respect)
(i) Name of the University :
(ii) Degree :
(iii)Date of award :
(iv) General/Special :
(v) Subjects :
(vi) Class :
11. If you have any other academic/professional qualifications
(postgraduate degree/diploma, certificates in foreign languages
etc.). Please give details below :
12. I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have affixed
the receipt No.......... dated............ being payment of the
Examination Fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules
governing the examination and any decision that may be taken
to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the
examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according to the
regulations of this examination.
–––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
13. Certificate of the Head of Department/Institution
(Only for Candidates already in the Public Service and the
Provincial Public Service)
I have ascertained that during 5 years/........................ years
preceding 2007,       Mr./Mrs./Miss....................... has (a) earned all
his/her increments, (b) not been subjected to any form of
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning).
I certify that the particulars given in the application are correct.
This officer if selected could be released from his/her present
post immediately.
–––––––,
Signature of Head of Department
and Designation.
Date :–––––––,
06-187
Please paste the
payment receipt here.