

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 6.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 09,  2007
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 09th February, 2007]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SAMASTHA  LANKA  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT, N O . 5  OF  2007

<!-- page 2 -->

    Samastha Lanka International Development
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2007
1
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the
Samastha
Lanka
International
Development
Association.
[Certified on 09th February, 2007]
L. D. — O. (Inc) 22/2004
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SAMASTHA  LANKA  INTERNA TIONAL
D EVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Samastha Lanka International Development Association”
has heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose
of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects and
matters connected with the said Association according to the
rules agreed by to its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1 This Act may be cited as the Samastha Lanka
International Development Association (Incorporation) Act,
No. 5 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Samastha
Lanka International  Development Association (hereinafter
referred to as “the Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Samastha Lanka International Development Association”
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full
power and authority to have and to use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to encourage the social and economic development
of Sri Lanka ;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

 Samastha Lanka International Development
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2007
2
(b) to establish, maintain and promote projects for the
development of agriculture, livestock and fishing
in urban and rural areas and in the plantation sector ;
(c) to train youth engaged in the plantation sector in
small industries to enable them to engage in self
employment ;
(d) to promote education by holding seminars, lectures,
discussions and workshops within or outside Sri
Lanka ;
(e) to grant scholarships, fellowships, bursaries, prizes
and other awards and to undertake research to
promote education ;
(f) to provide board, accommodation and other facilities
and grants to those who are engaged in the
attainment of the objects of the Corporation ;
(g) to undertake the execution of road development and
construction, improvement and maintaining any
building and machinery required therefore and to
provide such other related services ;
(h) to sponsor and conduct conferences, seminars,
workshops, group studies and lectures in Sri Lanka
and elsewhere ; and
(i) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
leaflets, newspapers and magazines which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects.
4. Subject to the  provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power —
(a) to borrow or raise money for the purposes of the
Corporation ;
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

    Samastha Lanka International Development
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2007
3
(b) to draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, buy,
sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissory
notes and other negotiable instruments and to open,
operate, maintain and  close bank accounts in Sri
Lanka and elsewhere ;
(c) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons in Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka ;
(d) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trusts which may directly or indirectly
be conducive to the accomplishment of all or any of
the objects of the Corporation ;
(e) to train personnel, in Sri Lanka or abroad, at the
expense of the Corporation for the purpose of the
Corporation ;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances, pensions and
gratuities as may be determined by the Corporation ;
and
(g) to invest all moneys of the Corporation which are
not immediately required for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the Corporation in securities of
the Government of Sri Lanka, or in any other form
of investment in Sri Lanka.
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vest in a Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “the
Council”), consisting of such number of members including
the Chairman in accordance with the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation.
(2) The members of the Association holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be deemed to be the members of the first council of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

 Samastha Lanka International Development
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2007
4
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at an annual general meeting or at any general meeting
and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or other written law, for all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by each
class of members, their admission, expulsion or
resignation ;
(b) election of the Council, resignation from, vacation
of or removal from office as office bearers and
powers, duties, and conduct of the Council ;
(c) appointment, dismissal, powers, duties, functions
and conduct of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council, the
Corporation or any Sub Committee thereof, filling
of vacancies,  notices and agenda of such meetings,
the quorum therefor and the conduct of business
thereat.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation under subsection
(1) shall be altered, added to, amended or rescinded at a like
meeting and in like manner as a rule made under subsection
(1) from time to time, at any annual general meeting.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own  fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations or contributions shall be deposited in
the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may be
decided by the Council.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
Rules  of the
Corporation.
Funds of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

    Samastha Lanka International Development
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2007
5
(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise and discharge of the powers and functions of the
Corporation shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
subscription, gift, grant or testamentary disposition or
otherwise and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of  the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.
9. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
10.  All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to, subscriptions and
contributions payable to the Association on such day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
11. If upon the winding up or the dissolution of the
Corporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts
and liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall
not be distributed among the members of the Corporation, but
shall be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions,  having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which is or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its or their
members.
12. (1)  The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
Property
remaining on the
dissolution of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
Liability of
members.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Association.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Auditing
activities.

<!-- page 7 -->

 Samastha Lanka International Development
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2007
6
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practise as an Accountant issued by
the council of such institute ; or
(ii) a Firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman or the Managing  Director or such other person as
may be duly authorized by the Council who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate
or of any other persons .
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Seal  of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

    Samastha Lanka International Development
Association (Incorporation) Act, No. 5 of 2007
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.