

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SIRINIWES PRAJAMITHRA SAHAYOGITHA
KENDRAYA (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 4 OF 2010
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 09th February, 2010]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 12, 2010

<!-- page 2 -->

1Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha
Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010
Short title.
[Certified on 09th February, 2010]
L.D.—O. (Inc.) 11/2008.
A N   ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SIRINIWES  PRAJAMITHRA  SAHAYOGITHA
K ENDRAY A .
WHEREAS a “Kendraya” called and known as the Siriniwes
Prajamithra Sahayogitha Kendraya has heretofore been
established at Sri Priyadarshanarama Purana Rajamaha
Viharasthanaya at Kobbewala, Gampola for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting  all matters connected
with the said Kendraya according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
 AND WHEREAS the said Kendraya has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Siriniwes Prajamithra
Sahayogitha Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of  2010.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha Kendraya (hereinafter
referred to as “Kendraya”) or shall hereafter be admitted as
members of  the Corporation hereby constituted shall  be a
body corporate, ( hereinafter referred to as  “the Corporation”)
with perpetual  succession, under the name and style of
“Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha Kendraya”  and by that
name  may  sue  and  be  sued  with  full  power  and  authority
to have and use a common seal and  alter the same at its
pleasure.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Siriniwes
Prajamithra
Sahayogitha
Kendraya.

<!-- page 3 -->

Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha
Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby  declared to be to —
(a) improve the economic standards of the poor families
living within Sri Lanka ;
(b) collaborate with the Government activities to
improve and maintain standard of education of  these
poor families;
(c) assist and support the activities to eliminate
poverty and improve the financial standards  of the
poor;
(d) support the activities in the protection and
conservation of the environment;
(e) improve health and nutrition levels through social
activation projects and to provide assistance for
social welfare activities;
(f) collaborate with any other Institution or Organization
in Sri Lanka or abroad having objects similar to
those of the Corporation and to exchange views
and programmes with them;
(g) assist in the provision of books, instrument,
clothing, loans and other financial assistance to
children in lower income families which need
assistance;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts to borrow or raise money with or without security
General objects
of the
Corporation.
Genaral Powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha
Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010
to receive or collect grants and donations to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servents
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules of the  Corporation made
under section 7 be administered by a Committee of
management consisting of the Executive Director, President,
Administrative Secretary, Treasurer and Committee Members
consisting not less than nineteen members and not more than
twenty three members elected in accordance with such rules.
(2) The first Committee of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Kendraya holding office
on the day prior  to the date of commencement of this Act
and who shall hold office until a new Committee of
Management is elected under the rules of the Corporation.
6. (1) The Viharadhipathi of the Sri  Priyadarshanarama
Purana Rajamaha Viharasthanaya at Kobbewala, Gampola
shall be the Executive Director of the Corporation.
(2) Where the Executive Director of the Corporation, due
to ill health or any other cause, is temporarily unable to
discharge the duties as Executive Director, he shall nominate
the most senior bikku in the Sri Priyadarshanarama Purana
Rajamana Viharasthanaya to dischrge such duties during such
absence.
(3) Ven. Kobbewala Siriniwasa Nahimi, the Viharadhipathi
of the Sri Priyadarshanarama Purana Rajamaha
Viharasthanaya, who was the life patron and the Executive
Director of the Kendraya, shall be the first  Executive Director
of the Corporation.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by majority of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting to make rules,
The Management
of the affairs of
the Corporation.
Executive
Director.
Rules of the
C orporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha
Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010
4
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal, resignation or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the resignation
from or vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers and their powers, functions and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
Management and the powers, functions and duties
and the terms of office  of members of the Committee
of Management;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the  Committee of
Management, the time, place, notice and agenda of
such meeting, the quorum therefore and the conduct
of business thereat;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts;  and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The Members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
8. The seal of the Corporation shall—
(a) be in the custody of the executive Director and the
President Priest;
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha
Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010
(b) not be affixed to any document except with the
sanction of the Committee of Management and in
the presence of two members of the Committee of
Managemtnt who shall sign the document in token
of their presence.
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets  and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any  property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, lease, testamentary disposition and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,
and subject to the rules of the Corporation made under section
7 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.
Accounts and
Audit.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.

<!-- page 7 -->

Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha
Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010
6
11. No member of the Corporation shall for purpose of
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or for
any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution other
than what may be due from him to the Corporation.
12. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations or contributions shall be deposited in
the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may be
decided by the Council.
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the exercise
and discharge of the powers and functions of the Corporation
shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
Others.
Funds of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Siriniwes Prajamithra Sahayogitha
Kendraya (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2010
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWA THA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.