

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1898$30 - 2015 ckjdß ui 21 jeks nodod - 2015'01'21
No. 1898/30  -  WEDNESDAY,  JANUARY  21,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A1A-PG 2335 (01/2015)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
“Institute”), the Institute has adopted the Statement of Alternative Treatment No. 2 – Revaluation Option for the Property,
plant and equipment for the entities adopting the SLFRS for SMEs, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka
Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. These changes shall be effective for financial statements covering
period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Fourteen.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
 Secretary
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
21
st January, 2015.
N. B.– Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Extraordinary Gazettes are published seperately.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
2A
STATEMENT OF ALTERNATIVE TREATMENT (SoAT) -
SoAT No. 2
Revaluation Option for the Property, Plant & Equipment for entities adopting the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for SMEs
The Statement of Alternative Treatment (SoAT) on Revaluation Option for the Property, Plant & Equipment (PPE)
for entities adopting the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for Small and Medium sized Entities (SLFRS for SMEs) was approved
by the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka on 13
th August 2014.
This Statement of Alternative Treatment contains the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka copyright
material. Reproduction in an unaltered form (retaining this notice) is permitted for personal and non-commercial use subject
to the inclusion of an acknowledgement of the source. Requests and inquiries concerning reproduction and rights for
commercial purposes should be addressed to the Secretary, Mr. Aruna Alwis, The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka, 30 A, Malalasekara Mawatha, Colombo 07, Sri Lanka.
Revaluation Option for the Property, Plant & Equipment for entities adopting the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for SMEs
CONTENTS Paragraphs
Background
Objective 1
Scope 2
Measurement after Initial Recognition 3
Income Taxes 16
Reversal of Impairment 17
Disclosures 18
Transition 21
Effective Date 22
Although the provisions for this Statement of Alternative Treatment (SoA T) are not mandatory, entities falling within
their scope are encouraged to comply with the recommendations set out in this SoAT.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
3A
Introduction:
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard for Small and Medium Sized Entities (SLFRS for SMEs) was issued by the Council
of CA Sri Lanka in 2011. This Standard is a self-contained standard designed to meet the needs and capabilities of smaller
businesses.
The SLFRS for SMEs currently prohibits the revaluation of property, plant and equipment (PPE). Instead, all items
of PPE must be measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses (Section 17.15
of SLFRS for SMEs). In full SLFRSs, LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment allows entities to choose the revaluation model.
When drafting this Statement of Alternative Treatment, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has
considered several requests of the corporate community on allowing the revaluation as an option on measurement after initial
recognition similar to full SLFRS.
Objective:
1. The objective of this SoAT is to prescribe for the entities adopting the SLFRS for SMEs Standard an allowed
alternative treatment for the Section 17.15 of SLFRS for SMEs on measurement after initial recognition for Property,
Plant & Equipment (PPE).
Scope:
2. This SoAT may be applied in the measurement after initial recognition of Property, Plant & Equipment.
Measurement after Initial Recognition:
3. An entity shall measure all items of property, plant and equipment after initial recognition at cost model (Section 17.15
of SLFRS for SMEs) or revaluation model in paragraph 4.
4. After recognition as an asset, an item of property, plant and equipment whose fair value can be measured reliably shall
be carried at a revalued amount, being its fair value at the date of the revaluation less any subsequent accumulated
depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Revaluations shall be made with sufficient regularity to
ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from that which would be determined using fair value at the
end of the reporting period.
5 The fair value of land and buildings is usually determined from market-based evidence by appraisal that is normally
undertaken by professionally qualified valuers. The fair value of items of plant and equipment is usually their market
value determined by appraisal.
6 If there is no market-based evidence of fair value because of the specialised nature of the item of property, plant and
equipment and the item is rarely sold, except as part of a continuing business, an entity may need to estimate fair value
using an income or a depreciated replacement cost approach.
7 The frequency of revaluations depends upon the changes in fair values of the items of property, plant and equipment
being revalued. When the fair value of a revalued asset differs materially from its carrying amount, a further revaluation
is required. Some items of property, plant and equipment experience significant and volatile changes in fair value, thus
necessitating annual revaluation. Such frequent revaluations are unnecessary for items of property, plant and
equipment with only insignificant changes in fair value. Instead, it may be necessary to revalue the item only every
three or five years.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
4A
8 When an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, any accumulated depreciation at the date of the revaluation
is treated in one of the following ways:
(a) restated proportionately with the change in the gross carrying amount of the asset so that the carrying amount
of the asset after revaluation equals its revalued amount. This method is often used when an asset is revalued
by means of applying an index to determine its depreciated replacement cost.
(b) eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset and the net amount restated to the revalued amount
of the asset. This method is often used for buildings.
The amount of the adjustment arising on the restatement or elimination of accumulated depreciation forms part of the
increase or decrease in carrying amount that is accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 12 and 13.
9 If an item of property, plant and equipment is revalued, the entire class of property, plant and equipment to which that
asset belongs shall be revalued.
10 A class of property, plant and equipment is a grouping of assets of a similar nature and use in an entity’s operations.
The following are examples of separate classes:
(a) land;
(b) land and buildings;
(c) machinery;
(d) ships;
(e) aircraft;
(f)  motor vehicles;
(g) furniture and fixtures; and
(h) office equipment.
11 The items within a class of property, plant and equipment are revalued simultaneously to avoid selective revaluation
of assets and the reporting of amounts in the financial statements that are a mixture of costs and values as at different
dates. However, a class of assets may be revalued on a rolling basis provided revaluation of the class of assets is
completed within a short period and provided the revaluations are kept up to date.
12 If an asset’s carrying amount is increased as a result of a revaluation, the increase shall be recognised in other
comprehensive income and accumulated in equity under the heading of revaluation surplus. However, the increase
shall be recognised in profit or loss to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the same asset previously
recognised in profit or loss.
13 If an asset’s carrying amount is decreased as a result of a revaluation, the decrease shall be recognised in profit or
loss. However, the decrease shall be recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent of any credit balance
existing in the revaluation surplus in respect of that asset. The decrease recognised in other comprehensive income
reduces the amount accumulated in equity under the heading of revaluation surplus.
14 The revaluation surplus included in equity in respect of an item of property, plant and equipment may be transferred
directly to retained earnings when the asset is derecognised. This may involve transferring the whole of the surplus
when the asset is retired or disposed of. However, some of the surplus may be transferred as the asset is used by an

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
5A
entity. In such a case, the amount of the surplus transferred would be the difference between depreciation based on
the revalued carrying amount of the asset and depreciation based on the asset’s original cost.
Transfers from revaluation surplus to retained earnings are not made through profit or loss.
15 The effects of taxes on income, if any, resulting from the revaluation of property, plant and equipment are recognised
and disclosed in accordance with LKAS 12 Income Taxes.
Income Taxes
16 SLFRS for SME permit certain assets to be carried at fair value or to be revalued. In some jurisdictions, the revaluation
or other restatement of an asset to fair value affects taxable profit (tax loss) for the current period. As a result, the tax
base of the asset is adjusted and no temporary difference arises. In other jurisdictions, the revaluation or restatement
of an asset does not affect taxable profit in the period of the revaluation or restatement and, consequently, the tax
base of the asset is not adjusted. Nevertheless, the future recovery of the carrying amount will result in a taxable flow
of economic benefits to the entity and the amount that will be deductible for tax purposes will differ from the amount
of those economic benefits. The difference between the carrying amount of a revalued asset and its tax base is a
temporary difference and gives rise to a deferred tax liability or asset. This is true even if:
(a) the entity does not intend to dispose of the asset. In such cases, the revalued carrying amount of the asset will
be recovered through use and this will generate taxable income which exceeds the depreciation that will be
allowable for tax purposes in future periods; or
(b) tax on capital gains is deferred if the proceeds of the disposal of the asset are invested in similar assets. In such
cases, the tax will ultimately become payable on sale or use of the similar assets.
Reversal of Impairment
17 A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is recognised in other comprehensive income and increases the
revaluation surplus for that asset. However, to the extent that an impairment loss on the same revalued asset was
previously recognised in profit or loss, a reversal of that impairment loss is also recognised in profit or loss.
Disclosures
18 A reconciliation of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period of PPE shall separately shows the
increases or decreases resulting from revaluations and from impairment losses recognised or reversed in other
comprehensive income.
19 If items of property, plant and equipment are stated at revalued amounts, the following shall be disclosed:
(a) the effective date of the revaluation;
(b) whether an independent valuer was involved;
(c) the methods and significant assumptions applied in estimating the items’ fair values;
(d) the extent to which the items’ fair values were determined directly by reference to observable prices in an active
market or recent market transactions on arm’s length terms or were estimated using other valuation techniques;
(e) for each revalued class of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount that would have been recognised
had the assets been carried under the cost model; and
(f) the revaluation surplus, indicating the change for the period and any restrictions on the distribution of the
balance to shareholders.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'21
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.01.2015
6A
20 An entity shall disclose the following for each class of assets:
(a) the amount of impairment losses on revalued assets recognised in other comprehensive income during the
period.
(b) the amount of reversals of impairment losses on revalued assets recognised in other comprehensive income
during the period.
Transition
21. Where an entity has elected to follow the revaluation model as specified in paragraph 3 of this SoAT, the entity shall
account for the adjustments if any, as a result of that change in accounting policy, prospectively.
Effective Date
22 An entity shall apply this SoAT in its annual financial statements for periods beginning on or after 01 January 2014.
02–76
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.