

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price :  Rs. 16.00  Postage  :  Rs. 15.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 08,  2013
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 07th August, 2013]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SRI LANKA ELECTRICITY (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 31 OF 2013

<!-- page 2 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
1
[Certified on 07th August, 2013]
L.D.—O. 21/2009.
AN  ACT TO AMEND THE SRI LANKA ELECTRICITY
ACT, NO. 20 OF 2009
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Electricity
(Amendment) Act, No. 31 of  2013.
2. Section 2 of the Sri Lanka Electricity Act (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended,
by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, and the
substitution therefor of the following subsection :—
“(1) The Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”) established
by the Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 35 of 2002, shall exercise, perform and discharge all
the powers, functions and duties as are conferred on or
assigned to the Commission by or under this Act.”.
3. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 2 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 2
A of that enactment :—
2A. (1) (a) The Commisssion may delegate
any of its powers, duties and functions conferred
on or assigned to it by or under this Act, to any
officer of the Commission for a specific purpose
and period as may be determined by the
Commission.
(b) The Commission may delegate any
power conferred on it by items 3, 4, 5 and 6 of
Schedule 1 of the Act to any Divisional
Secretary.
Short title.
Amendment of
section 2 of Act,
No. 20 of 2009.
“Delegation
of powers,
duties and
functions of
the
Commission.
Insertion of new
section 2
A in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
(2) The officer to whom any power, duty or
function is delegated under subsection (1) shall
exercise, perform or discharge such power, duty
or function, subject to such directions as may
be given to such officer by the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall notwithstanding
any delegation made under subsection (1), have
the authority to exercise, perform or discharge
any power, duty or any function so delegated.”.
4. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “provided that
such person shall be required”, of the words “provided that
where such person is a company incorporated under the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, such person shall be required”.
5. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)
of that section, the following new subsection :—
“(1
A) Notwithstanding the provisions of
paragraph ( c) of subsection (1), the eligibility
requirement specified in that paragraph shall not
be applicable to a company which, on the date of
the coming into force of this Act, is operating a
plant to generate electricity over and above the
generation capacity of 25MW, having a valid power
Purchase Agreement executed with the Ceylon
Electricity Board and which is in operation on the
date preceding the date of the coming into force of
this Act :
Provided that the non applicability of the eligibility
requirements in respect of a company as provided for
by this subsection, shall be in operation only during
the period of duration of the Power Purchase
Agreement referred to in that subsection.”; and
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
3
(2) in paragraph ( c) of subsection (3) of that section,
by the substitution for the words “the Government
holds more than”, of the words “the Government or
a public corporation holds more than”.
6. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
after section 9 of the principal enactment and shall have
effect as section 9
A of that enactment :—
9A. (1) The Commission may, having regard
to :—
(a) the process adopted for generation of
electricity ;
(b) the  quantity  of  electricity  proposed
to  be generated ;
(c) the number of persons among whom the
electricity generated is to be
distributed ;
(d) the location of the plant to be used for
the generation of electricity ; and
(e) any other criteria that the Commission
may consider appropriate,
by Order published in the Gazette, exempt
any person or category of persons from the
requirement of obtaining a licence for the
generation or distribution of electricity,
where such person engages in community
based electricity generating project on a
non-commercial basis.
(2) The period for which such exemption is
granted and the terms and conditions which
such exemption shall be subject to, shall be as
specified in such Order.
“Statutory
exemptions.
Insertion of new
section 9 A in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
(3) The Commission may withdraw an
exemption granted to any person or category
of persons under subsection (1), where such
person or category of persons :—
(a) have acted in violation of any term or
condition subject to which the
exemption was granted ; or
(b) commences to generate or distribute
electricity on a commercial basis.
(4) Where an exemption granted under this
section is withdrawn, the Commission shall by
notice published in such manner as the
Commission considers appropriate, disclose the
names of the person or category of persons
whose exemption is being withdrawn and
notify the persons affected by such withdrawal,
of the same.”.
7. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “on an application made for an
exemption by Order published in the Gazette,
exempt”, of the words “on application made for
that purpose, exempt”;
(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—
“(2) The Commission shall issue to every person
or category of persons to whom an exemption under
subsection (1) is granted, a Certificate of Exemption
which shall be subject to such terms and conditions
and be effective for such period, as shall be
specified therein.”.
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
5
(3) by the addition at the end of that section, of the
following new subsection :—
“(3) Within one week of the issue under
subsection (2) of a Certificate of Exemption to any
person or category of persons, it shall be the duty of
the Commission to publish by a notice in the
Gazette, the names of all such persons or category
of persons, as the case may be, to whom a Certificate
of Exemption was issued :
Provided that, if no Notice as required above is
published in the Gazette  within the period
stipulated, the Certificate of Exemption granted
under subsection (2) shall be null and void and of
no force or avail in law.”.
(4) by the substitution for the marginal note to that
section, of the following marginal note :—
“Exemption
granted on
application.”.
8. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) of
that section, of the following new paragraph :—
“(bb)  requiring the licensee, where such licensee
seeks to distribute electricity to owners of condominium
parcels in any Condominium Property or Semi
Condominium Property, to enter into an agreement with
the management corporation of such Condominium
Property or the Semi Condominium Property, as the
case may be, established under the Apartment
Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973, for the supply of
electricity to such owners, authorizing such management
corporation to recover service charges and monthly
charges from all such owners for the consumption of
electricity ;”.
Amendment of
section 18 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
9. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following :—
“(1) A licence shall be capable of being assigned
either in whole or part if it includes a condition
authorizing such assignment.”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)
of that section, of the following new subsection :—
“(3
A) The Minister shall, where he is satisfied
that the Commission had complied with the
requirements imposed by subsection (3) and that
such purported assignment does not contravene the
provisions of subsection (6) of this section, grant
his consent for such assignment.”.
10. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words and figure “under section 10” of the
words and figures “under sections 9
A and 10”;
(2) by the addition at the end of that section, of the
following new subsection :—
“(3) The Commission shall by notice published
in the Gazette, publish the names of all persons or
category of persons whose exemption is revoked
under paragraph (a) or the name of any person out
of any category of persons whose exemption
withdrawn under paragraph (b), of subsection (1) of
this section.”.
Amendment of
section 19 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
7
11. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—
“(1) Where any electrical line or electrical plant
is provided by the distribution licensee for the
purpose of connect and supply of electricity to any
person requiring a supply of electricity under
section 25, the licensee may require any expenses
reasonably incurred in providing the line or plant
or the connect and supply of electricity to the person
concerned, to be defrayed by such person, to such
extent as is allowed by the conditions of the
distribution licence.”; and
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)
of that section, of the following new subsections :—
“(1A) Where any person who requires a supply of
electricity under section 25 but has not sufficient
means to defray the expenses incurred by the
distribution licensee under subsection (1), such
person may request the distribution licensee to
connect  and supply the electricity to the premises
concerned, on the basis of recovering such expenses
in reasonable monthly instalments along with the
tariff and any other charges levied by the
distribution licensee, as per the standard tariff
agreement.
(1B) Where the distribution licensee is satisfied
that a person as referred to in subsection (1 A) has
not the sufficient means to defray in total the
expenses incurred by the licensee, prior to providing
the line or plant or connect  and supply of electricity
Amendment of
section 27 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
to the premises concerned, such person shall be
required to enter into an agreement with the
distribution licensee relating to the manner in which
the expenses would be defrayed by him to the
distribution licensee, before the line or plant or
connect and supply of electricity to the premises is
been attended to by the distribution licensee.
(1C) The information required by the distribution
licensee for the purpose of being satisfied as
provided for in subsection (1 B), that a person has
not the sufficient means to defray any expenses
incurred by such licensee, shall be based on such
guidelines as shall be prescribed.”.
12. Section 39 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)
of that section, of the following new subsection :—
“(2A) In mediating and resolving any dispute
under subsection (2), the Commission may where it
considers it expendient to do so, refer such dispute
for purpose of resolution to a Panel of Mediators
consisting of three persons appointed by the
Commission, one of whom shall be either a member
of the Commission or a member of the staff of the
Commission or a public officer, who shall function
as the Chairman of such Panel. The Panel of
Mediators shall make every endeavour to resolve
the dispute referred to it and bring about a
settlement among the parties to the dispute and
conclude its deliberations within the time, as shall
be specified by the Commission.”; and
(2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “by rules made under the Public
Amendment of
section 39 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 10 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
9
Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka, No. 35 of 2002
and this Act.”, of the words “by rules made under
this Act.”.
13. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor :—
43. (1) Subject to the provisions of section
8 of this Act, no person shall proceed with the
procuring or operating of any new generation
plant or the expansion of the generation
capacity of an existing plant, otherwise than
in the manner authorized by the commission
under this section.
(2) A transmission licensee shall, based on
the future demand forecast as specified in the
Least Cost Long Term Generation Expansion
Plan prepared by such licensee and as amended
after considering the submissions of the
distribution and generation licensees and
approved by the Commission, submit proposals
to proceed with the procuring of any new
generation plant or for the expansion of the
generation capacity of an existing plant, to the
Commission for its written approval :
Provided however where on the day
preceding the date of the coming into force of
this Act :—
(a) an approval of the Cabinet of
Ministers had been obtained to
develop a new generation plant or to
expand the generation capacity of an
existing generation plant ; or
Replacement of
section 43 of the
principal
enactment.
“Provision of
new
generation
plant or the
extension of
any existing
plant.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
(b) a permit had been issued to generate
electricity through renewable energy
resources by the Sri Lanka
Sustainable Energy Authority
established by the Sri Lanka
Sustainable Energy Authority Act, No.
35 of 2007 under section 18 of that
Act, as a consequence of which the
development of a new generation
plant or the expansion of the
generation capacity of an existing
generation plant, has become
necessary,
the approval obtained or the permit issued,
as the case may be, shall be referred to the
Commission for its approval. The
Commission shall, having considered the
request made along with any supporting
documents annexed thereto and on being
satisfied that the necessary Cabinet
approval had been obtained or a permit had
been issued by the Sustainable Energy
Autohrity, as the case may be, prior to the
coming into force of this Act, grant
approval to the transmission licensee to
proceed with the procuring of the new
generation plant or the expansion of the
generation capacity of its existing plant,
as the case may be.
(3) Where a person who is issued with a
licence under section 13 of this Act to generate
electricity of less than 25MW in capacity,
proposes to expand its generation capacity of
its generation plant as a consequence of which
the generation of electricity would exceed
25MW in capacity, the approval of the

<!-- page 12 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
11
Commission under subsection (1) for such
proposal shall not be granted, unless such
person is a person who is qualified under
subsection (1) of section 9 of this Act, to be
issued with a generation licence.
(4) Upon obtaining the approval of the
Commission under subsection (2), the
transmission licensee shall in accordance with
the conditions of its transmission licence and
in compliance with any rules that may be made
by the Commission relating to procurement,
call for tenders by notice published in the
Gazette, to develop a new generation plant or
to expand the generation capacity of an
existing generation plant, as the case may be,
as shall be specified in the notice :
Provided however, subject to the provisions
of subsection (6) of this section, the requirement
to submit a tender on the publication of a notice
under this subsection shall not be applicable
in respect of any new generation plant or to the
expansion of any existing generation plant
that is being developed :—
(a) in accordance with the Least Cost Long
Term Generation Expansion Plan duly
approved by the Commission and
which has received the approval of the
Cabinet of Ministers on the date
preceding the date of the coming into
force of this Act and is required to be
operated at least cost ;
(b) on a permit issued by the Sri Lanka
Sustainable Energy Authority,
established by the Sri  Lanka

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
Sustainable Energy Authority Act,
No. 35 of 2007 under section 18 of that
Act for the generation of electricity through
renewable energy sources and required
to be operated at the standardized tariff
and is governed by a Standardized
Power Purchase Agreement approved by
the Cabinet of Ministers ; or
(c) in compliance with the Least Cost Long
Term Generation Expansion Plan duly
approved by the Commisssion having
received the prior approval of the
Commission, for which the approval of
the Cabinet of Ministers has been
received on the baiss of :—
(i) an offer received from a foreign
sovereign Government to the
Government of Sri Lanka, for
which the approval of the
Cabinet of Ministers have been
obtained ; or
(ii) to meet any emergency
situation as determined by the
Cabinet of Ministers during a
national calamity or a long term
forced outage of a major
generation plant, where
protracted bid inviting process
outweigh the potential benefit
or procuring emergency
capacity required to be
provided by any person at least
cost.
(5) Upon the close of the tender, the
transmission licensee shall through a properly

<!-- page 14 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
13
constituted tender board, recommend to the
Commission for its approval, the person who is
best capable of :—
(a) developing the new generation plant or
the expansion of the generation
capacity of an existing generation plant,
as the case may be, as specified in the
notice published in the Gazette under
subsection (4), in compliance with the
technical and economic parameters of
the transmission licensee ;
(b) selling electrical energy or electricity
generating capacity at least cost ; and
(c) meeting the requirements of the Least
Cost Long Term Generation Expansion
Plan of the transmission licensee duly
approved by the Commission,
along with the draft Power Purchase
Agreement, describing the terms and conditions
of such purchase.
(6) Notwithstanding the fact that :-
(a) an exemption from the submission of a
tender is granted to any person under
paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of the proviso
to subsection (4) ; or
(b) a new generation plant or an expansion
of the generating capacity of an existing
generation plant is being developed in
accordance with the Least Cost Long
Term Generation Expansion Plan duly
approved by the Commission, by a
person who had obtained the approval

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
of the Cabinet of Ministers and which
approval is force on the date of the
coming into operation of this Act,
the transmission licensee shall be required to
negotiate with the person concerned to satisfy
itself, that such person is capable of developing
the new generation plant or the expansion of
the generating capacity of an existing
generation plant, as the case may be, in
compliance with the technical and economical
parameters of the transmission licensee and is
capable of selling electrical energy or electricity
generating capacity at least cost, and forward
its recommendations for approval to the
Commission, along with the draft Power
Purchase Agreement or the draft Standardized
Power Purchase Agreement, as the case may
be, describing the terms and conditions of such
purchase.
(7) The Commission shall be required on
receipt of any recommendations of the
transmission licensee under subsection (5) or
subsection (6), as the case may be, to grant its
approval at its earliest convenience, where the
Commission is satisfied that the recommended
price for the purchase of electrical energy or
electricity generating capacity meets the
principle of  least cost and the requirements of
the Least Cost Long Term Generation Expansion
Plan and that the terms and conditions of such
purchase is within the accepted technical and
economical parameters of the transmission
licensee.
(8) For the purpose of this section-
“Least Cost Long Term Generation
Expansion Plan” means a plan

<!-- page 16 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
15
prepared by the transmission
licensee and amended and approved
by the Commission on the basis of
the submissions made by the
licensees and published by the
Commission, indicating the future
electricity generating capacity
requirements determined on the basis
of least economic cost and meeting
the technical and reliability
requirements of the electricity
network of Sri Lanka which is duly
approved by the Commission and
published in the Gazette from time
to time; and
“Standardized Power Purchase
Agreement” means an agreement
entered into by the transmission
licensee for the purchase of electrical
energy or electricity generating
capacity, generated using renewable
energy resources under a permit
issued by the Sri Lanka Sustainable
Authority, established by the Sri
Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority
Act, No. 35 of 2007, under section 18
of that Act.”.
14. Section 50 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :-
(1) in subsection (1) of that section :-
(a) by the substitution in paragraph ( a) of that
subsection, for the words “apparatus : or”, of
the words “apparatus;”;
(b) in paragraph ( b) of that subsection, for the
words “a licensee,”, of the words “a
licensee; or”; and
Amendment of
section 50 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
(c) by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(b) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph :-
“(c) intentionally or negligently:-
(i) alters the quantity of electricity as
registered on any meter used for
measuring the quantity of electricity
supplied to any premises by a
distribution licensee; or
(ii) prevents any meter from duly
registering the quantity of electricity
supplied through that meter,”;
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following new subsection:-
“(1A) Where any person is prosecuted for an
offence under paragraph (c) of subsection (1), a
certificate issued by the distribution licensee to
the effect that—
(i) the meter was in the custody or under
the control of the person being
prosecuted; and
(ii) there is clear proof that the meter has
been tampered causing an alteration of
the register of the quantity of electricity
registered on such meter and therefore
preventing the meter from duly
registering such usage,
shall be admissible in evidence and shall be prima
facie proof of the matters contained  therein.”;
and

<!-- page 18 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
17
(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (4) of
that section, of the following new subsection:—
“(4A) Where any person is convicted of an
offence under paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of
this section, the distribution licensee may
discontinue the supply of electricity to the
premises of the person convicted and remove
the meter in respect of which the offence was
committed and thereafter keep the same in safe
custody, until the Commission authorizes the
licensee to dispose of it. However in the event
that the unpaid dues are recovered by the
distribution licensee, the distribution licensee
shall, within a reasonable period of time, restore
the supply of electricity that was disconnected.”.
15. Section 57 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :-
57.  The Minister shall, in giving his
concurrence as required under subsection (1)
of section 13, subsection (1) of section 20,
subsection (1) of section 22 and subsection (1)
of section 38, as the case may be, of this Act,
act in accordance with such criteria as shall be
prescribed.”.
16. Section 61 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “Central Environmental Authority”,
of the following new definition :-
“Ceylon Electricity Board” means the Ceylon
Electricity Board established by the Ceylon
Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969;”;
Replacement of
section 57 of
the principal
enactment.
“Minister to
ensure
compliance.
Amendment of
section 61 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
(2) in the definition of the expression “electrical plant”,
by the substitution for paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
that definition, of the following paragraphs :—
“(a) an electrical line ; or
(b) an electrical appliance under the control of a
consumer;”;
(3) in the definition of the expression “high voltage
lines”, by the substitution for the words “not more
than 33 kilovolts”, of the words “not less than 33
kilovolts”; and
(4) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the word “notice”, of the following new definitions:—
“Power Purchase Agreement” means an agreement
entered into by the transmission licensee with
a generation licensee for the purchase of bulk
electrical energy or bulk electricity generating
capacity, exclusively for the purpose of selling
electrical energy to distribution licensees;
17. The Schedule I of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in item 3 of that Schedule—
(a) by the substitution for paragraph (3) of that
item, of the following paragraph :—
“(3) Where paragraphs (1) or (2) applies and-
(a) the licensee has made all
reasonable efforts to secure the
grant of a way leave ; and
Amendment of
Schedule I of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 20 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
19
(b) such efforts have been
unsuccessful,
the Divisional Secretary of the
administrative district in which the
land, over which the way leave is being
requested for or from which an
electrical line which is installed is
requested to be removed, as the case
may be, shall within six weeks of an
application being made in that behalf
by the licensee concerned, and :-
(i) upon holding an inquiry after
giving an opportunity to the
owner or occupier of the land
concerned, of being heard ; and
(ii) o n  being satisfied that it is
necessary or expedient for the
licensee to install and keep
installed an electrical line on,
under or over the land of the
owner or occupier concerned, in
order to carry on the activities
which the licensee is authorized
by its licence to carry on,
may either unconditionally or subject
to such terms, conditions and
stipulations as such Divisional
Secretary considers appropriate,
authorize the licensee or prohibit the
licensee, as the case may be, from
carrying on the activities mentioned in
paragraph (1) or (2).
(3A) Where upon the conclusion of
an inquiry the Divisional Secretary is

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
satisfied that the acquisition of the way
leave has become necessary for the
purpose of carrying on the activities
authorized by the licence of the
licensee, the Divisional Secretary shall,
within six weeks of an application being
made by the licensee in that behalf,
make his recommendations pertaining
to the same, to the Commission. The
Commission shall, on being satisfied
that it is necessary or expedient, to
acquire the land or to install and keep
installed an electrical line on, under or
over the land concerned in order to
carry on the activities which the
licensee is authorized to carry on under
the licence, recommend to the Minister
the acquisition of the same. Thereupon
the Minister shall approve the
acquisition by Order published in the
Gazette  and the way leave shall
thereupon be deemed to be required
for a public purpose and be acquired
under the Land Acquisition Act and
transferred to the licensee. Any amount
payable for such acquisition, shall be
paid for by the licensee.”; and
(b) by the omission of paragraph (5) of that item ;
and
(2) in item 6 of that Schedule :—
(a) in paragraph (4) of that item, by the substitution
for the words “twenty one days” and for the
words “may cause”, of the words “seven
working days” and of the words “shall cause”
respectively ; and

<!-- page 22 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
21
(b) in paragraph (5) of that item, by the substitution
for the words “twenty one days” and for the
words “to the Commission.”, of the words
“seven working days” and of the words “to
the Commission or to a person appointed by
the Commission for that purpose,
respectively.”.
18. The Schedule II of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(a) by the repeal of paragraph (5) of item 1 of that
Schedule and substitute the following :—
“(5) If a tariff customer:—
(a) has not, within the requisite period, paid
all charges due to a distribution licensee in
respect of the supply of electricity to any
premises, or the provision of any electricity
meter, electric line or electrical plant for the
purposes of that supply;
(b) has failed to comply with a notice from the
licensee requiring him or her to cease using
any appliance which unduly or improperly
interferes with the supply of electricity by
the licensee to any other consumer; or
(c) has failed to pay the monthly instalments
due for the requisite period under the
agreement entered into under subsection
(1B) of section 27 of the Act or any other
charges which the customer has agreed to
make to the distribution licensee,
the distribution licensee may, at the end of the
requisite period cut off the supply to the premises,
or to any other premises occupied by the customer,
by such means as the licensee thinks fit and
recover any expenses inccurred in so doing from
the costomer.”.
Amendment of
Schedule II of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
(b) in paragraph (1) of item 5 of that Schedule, by the
substitution for the words and figures “subject to
the provisions of item 8, any officer authorized by
a distribution licensee may enter any premises to”
of the words “Notwithstanding the provisions in
item 8(1)(a) of Schedule 11 any officer authorized
by a distribution licensee as may be prescribed
by regulations may enter any premises from 8 a.m.
to 5 p.m.;
(c) in item 6 of that Schedule—
(i) in paragraph (1), by the substitution for the
words and figures “subject to item 8, enter the
premises” of the words “enter the premises
from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.”; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), by the substitution for the
words and figures “subject to item 8, enter the
premises” of the words “enter the premises
from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.”;
(d) in paragraph (1) of item 8 of that schedule, by the
substitution for the words “under this Act shall not”
of the words “under this Act except under the
provisions of item 5 and item 6 of the schedule II
shall not”.
19. Schedule III of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the omission of item 8 of that Schedule.
20. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
21. The amendments made to the principal enactment
by the provisions of this Act, shall be deemed for all purposes
to have come into force, on April 8, 2009.
Amendment of
Schedule III of
the principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Retrospective
effect.

<!-- page 24 -->

Sri Lanka Electricity (Amendment)
Act, No. 31 of 2013
23
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .