

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
BOARD  OF  DIRECTORS  OF THE REHABILITATION
AND  EDUCATION  DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 52 OF 1999
[Certified on 14th  December, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  December  17, 1999.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED A T THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs.6.75 Postage: Rs.3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999
[Certified on 14th December, 1999]
L.D. – O. 2/94.
A
N   ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  REHABILITATION  AND  EDUCA TION
                                   DEVELOPMENT  FUND
WHEREAS a Fund called and known as the “Rehabilitation
and Education Development Fund” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said Fund according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Fund has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and the Board of Directors of the
Fund has applied to be incorporated and it will be for the
public advantage to grant the application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Board of Directors of
the Rehabilitation and Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
the Board of Directors for the time being of such and so many
persons as now are members of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the  “the Board of
Directors of the Rehabilitation and Education Development
Fund” and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts,
with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
H - 022545
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Board of
Directors of the
Rehabilitation and
Education
Development
Fund.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be -
(a) to improve and promote the educational, religious,
cultural, social and economic welfare of the people
of Sri Lanka ;
(b) to work for the elimination of social and other
inequalities among the people of Sri Lanka ;
(c) to promote the overall welfare of the
underdeveloped and socialy disadvantaged people
of Sri Lanka, particularly the persons
belonging to “Navathar Community” living in the
North and Eastern provinces of  Sri Lanka, who
have not made sufficient progress in overall social
development ;
(d) to foster the spirit of unity and to promote goodwill
and friendship, among the people of Sri Lanka ;
(e) to foster and promote the Tamil Language,
Literature and Culture ;
(f)to grant financial aid and award scholarships for
primary, secondary and higher education ;
(g) to maintain and administer, Scholarship Funds ;
(h) to promote, encourage and assist in organising,
competitions, debates, lectures, discussions,
displays and demonstrations and to print and
publish, magazines, brochures, study materials and
other literature ;
(i) to establish and maintain libraries, reading rooms
and study circles ;
General Objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999
(j)to provide consultancy and training services to
promote education, management, trade, industries,
agriculture and welfare activities ;
(k) to provide assistance, financial or otherwise, to
widows, orphans, destitutes, persons affected by
civil disturbances and handicapped persons ;
(l) to establish, administer and maintain, orphanages
and homes for the aged and destitutes ;
(m) to organise, promote and encourage, people to
undertake projects relative to trade, agriculture or
industry with or without loan assistance ;
(n) to establish, maintain and administer a death
Benevolent Fund, Housing and Loan Schemes ;
(0) to assist, relief, rehabilitaion, reconstruction,
housing and other welfare activities undertaken by
state agencies and non-govermental agencies ; and
(p) to do all such other acts and things as are or may
be necessary or desirable for the attainment or
promotion of the above mentioned objects of the
Corporation.
   4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
and furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations to enter into any
contracts, to invest its funds, to grant loans on
personal guarantees, or otherwise and to engage, employ and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carring out the
objects of the Corporation.
General powers of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999
       5.(1) It shall be lawful for the corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of the members
present and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act and any other written law for all or any
of the following matters :-
(a) the appointment of the members of the Corporation
and their powers, conduct and duties ;
(b) the appointment, powers, conduct, duties and
functions of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
(c) the criteria for selection of beneficiaries and the
allocation of resources among different beneficiary
groups ;
(d) the collection, investment and disbursement of the
funds of the Corporation and the opening,
operation and closing of bank accounts ;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation, the
times, places, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum therefor and the conduct of
business thereat ;
(f)the administration and management of the prop-
erty of the Coporation, the custody of its funds
and the maintenance and audit of its accounts ;
(g) the terms and conditions for affiliating the
 Federation of Community Advancement Societies
and its member societies with the Corporation ;
and
(h) generally, for the managment of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation for the time being
in force or any rule which may hereafter be passed may be
amended, altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under sub-section (1).
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999
(3) the rules of the Rehabilitation and Education
Development Fund in force on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the rules of
the Corporation made under this section, in so far as they are
not inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law.
(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
   6.The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
 7. All debts and liabilities of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund existing on the day preceding
the date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid and
discharged by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contribution, payable to, the
Rehabilitation and Education Development Fund on that day
shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
 8. The Federation of Community Advancement
Societies and its member societies may be affiliated to the
Corporation in accordance with the rules inforce for the time
being of the Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.
Debts due
and payable
to the Fund.
Federation of
Community
Advancement
Societies and its
member societies
affiliated
Corporate bodies
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999
 9. (1) The Corporation shall not be dissolved unless by
decision taken at a special general meeting of the members
summoned for the purpose and by a three- fourths majority of
the members present and voting thereat.
(2) If  upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to the Federation of Community Advancement
Societies and or to its affiliated member societies, for
promotion and furtherance of its or their objects.
 10. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of the Managing Director and the seal may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Corporation. The seal
shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except with
the sanction of the Corporation and in the presence of two
Directors authorised by the Corporation who shall sign their
names in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
 11. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
      (b)The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
         (c)The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor.
In this section, “qualified auditor” means –
(i) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practise as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute ; or
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Board of Directors of the Rehabilitation and
Education Development Fund
(Incorporation) Act, No.52 of 1999
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practise as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic of anybody politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are men-
tioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from, or under, them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala text and the Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
The rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , No. 32,
T RANSWORKS  H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect
                                                  of the year following.