

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1328
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1324 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"446 – 2025 cQ,s ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'07'18
No. 2,446 –  FRIDAY, JULY, 18, 2025
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th August, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th July, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 S. D. Pandikorala (Acting),
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
09th June, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1321 - B 082701 -  (07/2025)
Note.–    Part II of the Gazette No. 2445 of 11.07.2025 was not published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1322
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1323
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1324
Post - Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages – (Sinhala)
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages Division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. Only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the Post) 
with 02 Credit passes in not more than Two (02) sittings in GCE(O/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. - In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the Office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. Additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the Division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “Annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the Official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
Department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18th August, 2025, by registered post to the address 
given in the Schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
On this 01st day of July, 2025.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1325
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Puttalam Naththandiya
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Kottaramulla Area of Pitigal Koralaya 
South Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Mundel
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Perukkuwattan Area of Puttalam Pattu 
Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Chilaw
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Chilaw Town Area of Pitigal Koralaya 
North Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Puttalam Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Puttalam Kadawath Sathara Division
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
07-622
_____________________________________
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages – (Tamil)
BATTICALOA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Additional Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereof;
01. Applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages Division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. Only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. Applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the Post) 
with 02 Credit passes in not more than Two (02) sittings in GCE(O/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the Division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. - In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1326
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the Office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. Additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions of the relevant Division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the Division such as District Secretariat, Divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “Annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari Divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the Official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
Department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 20 th August, 2025 , by registered post to the address 
given in the Schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
On this 01st day of July, 2025.
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Batticaloa Eravur Town
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Eravur Koralaipatthu Division (Tamil 
Medium)
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Batticaloa.
Batticaloa Kaththankudy
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Kaththankudy South Division (Tamil 
Medium)
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Batticaloa.
Batticaloa Kaththankudy
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Kaththankudy Central Division (Tamil 
Medium)
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Batticaloa.
Batticaloa Manmunai North Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Poonochimunai Division (Tamil Medium)
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Batticaloa.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1327
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Batticaloa Manmunai North Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Kottamunai Division (Tamil Medium)
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Batticaloa
Batticaloa Koralaipattu 
North
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Ridithenna Division (Tamil Medium)
District Secretary/ Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Batticaloa
07-730
_____________________________________
CONSTITUTIONAL  COUNCIL
Appointment of a Member of the Public Service Commission
APPLICATIONS  are called from interested individuals to fill a vacancy in the post of a member of the Public 
Service Commission subject to disqualifications specified under Article 54 of the Constitution of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The applications should be prepared in accordance with the application from which is available in the 
website of Sri Lanka Parliament www.parliament.lk with a quick link named 'Appointment of a member to PSC', 
and the duly completed applications should be sent to;
Acting Secretary-General to the Constitutional Council,
Constitutional Council - Office
Parliament of  Sri Lanka
Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte
on or before 01 August 2025 by registered post or by email to constitutionalcouncil@parliament.lk . indicate 
'Appointment of a member to PSC' on the top left hand corner of the envelope, or as the subject of the email.
Published on the order of the Constitutional Council.
Acting Secretary-General to the Constitutional Council
Constitutional Council - Office
Parliament of Sri Lanka
Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte.
17.07.2025.
07-804

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1328
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND MASS MEDIA
Recruitment of B. Sc. (Nursing) Graduates for the Orientation and Coordination Course  
in Nursing- 2025
APPLICATIONS  are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens who have obtained the B. Sc. in Nursing from an institute or 
university recognized by the University Grants Commission to recruit to the orientation and coordination course in nursing 
of the Ministry of Health and Mass Media. 
01. Based on the priority list prepared according to the effective date of the degree and GPA of the applicants, 25% of the 
number required to be trained annually will be selected from the applicants with a Bachelor of Science degree, based 
on the vacancies available. Accordingly, 875 applicants are to be selected out of the applicants applying for the Nursing 
Orientation and Coordination Course.
02. Educational Qualifications relevant to the Post
 Should have completed B.Sc. in Nursing from an Institution recognized by the University Grants Commission.
03. Physical Fitness and Other Qualifications
a) Each candidate shall be physically fit to serve in any part of the Island.
b) Shall be a Sri Lankan citizen of Sri Lanka
c) Shall be an excellent character.
d) Both males and females can apply.
e) Shall not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age as at 08.08.2025
f) The effective date of the degree should be a date prior to 30.06.2025
g) Shall have registered with the Sri Lanka Nursing Council as at the date of the interview.
04. Method of Application
a) The Application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form appended hereto, using A4 size papers. 
Nos. from 1 to 14 should appear on the first page and Nos. from 15 to 17 should appear on the second page and 
No.18 should appear on the third page.
b) A Copy of the Degree certificate and the certificate which indicates the GPA, certified as true by the applicant 
should be attached to the application.
c) Receipt obtained by paying the amount of Rs. 1,000/-to the credit of the account of the Director General of Health 
Services - Collection of Examination Fees No. 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon “Thaprobane Branch’’ should be 
affixed in the cage given in the application. This fee is neither refunded nor allowed to be transferred to another 
examination for any reason.
d) Head of Institution shall attest the signature of the officers in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service and 
forward their applications. Other applicants are required to get their signature in the application be attested by the 
Grama Niladhari of the respective division/ a Principal of a Government School/ Justice of Peace/ Commissioner 
of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned officer in Tri-Forces / Chief Incumbent or Head of a Buddhist temple 
or a member of clergy in charge of any other religious institution holding a position of importance/Staff Grade 
Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1329
e) In the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application words “Recruitment of B.Sc.(Nursing)  
Graduates for Orientation and Co-ordination Course in Nursing -2025’’ should be indicated with the name of the 
relevant degree and the academic year. The Applications should be sent by the registered post to reach the Director 
(Admin) 01, Ministry of Health and Mass Media,”Suwasiripaya”, 385,Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero 
Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 08.08.2025
05. Applicants of the Government or Semi-Government institutions shall forward their   applications through the respective 
Head of the Department and applicants should also note that this is an external recruitment and they shall in no way be 
reverted to their currents posts in the event they could or could not successfully complete the relevant training.
06. Applications which are not in compliance with the terms laid in this notification and applications which are incomplete, 
not complying with the specimen form of application, applications of the applicants who have not fulfilled the basic 
qualifications and the applications in which the bank receipt has not been affixed and the applications not registered on 
or before 08.08.2025 will be rejected without any notice. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
07. From the applicants who have fulfilled above qualifications, applicants selected based on a priority list prepared 
considering the effective date of the degree and the GPA are only called for the interview. A general interview will 
be conducted by an interview board appointed by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health and Mass Media, and the 
interview board will check the qualifications mentioned in the Nursing Service Minute and this Gazette notification and 
the physical fitness.
Note :-
a) The number recruited to the training and the number of applicants called for interview will be decided by the 
Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Mass Media on the exigency of service.
b) No section contained herein shall be deemed to imply or be construed to mean that all those who attended the 
interview are recruited to the training.
c) Particulars of the applicants who are qualified, disqualified at the interview and those who are not selected are 
published on the web site www.health.gov.lk and no one will be informed in personally.
08. Applicants should submit the originals of the following documents at the interview:
a) Birth certificate.
b) Originals of the degree certificate and the certificate which indicates the detail certificate GPA along with 
the copies certified by himself/herself. 
c) National Identity Card or Valid Passport or Driving License and a copy certified by himself/herself. 
d) Document relevant to registration with the Sri Lanka Nursing Council.
09. Procedure of training
Course Duration of the course Medium
Orientation and coordination course in 
nursing 06 Months English
a) Selected applicants are attached to the relevant training schools to follow the orientation and coordination course. 
The course should be followed in the medium of English.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1330
b) Trainees admitted to the training schools shall be subjected to the rules and regulations of the training schools and 
any other orders imposed by the Ministry of Health and Mass Media from time to time.
c) Training of those who do not complete the training successfully at the end of the   training period, whose work and 
conduct are not satisfactory or who fail to adhere to terms and conditions of the training school may be terminated 
at any time without compensation.
d) During the period of training, the monthly allowance paid to the student nurses in the third year is paid subject to 
the provisions given in Public Administrative Circular 10/2025.
e) At the time he/she is admitted to the training, should enter into an agreement and a surety bond with the Secretary 
Ministry of Health and Mass Media or Authorized person by the  Secretary that he/ she will complete the training 
successfully, not abandon the training course and serve in the post concerned in the hospital of relevant 
provincial council or the Line Ministry to which he/she is appointed or in Department of Health for at least 
a period of 5 years if an appointment is granted at the completion of the said training. The agreement and 
the surety bond should be submitted to the ETR branch on the same day of registration.If he/she resigns from the 
training or leaves the training during the training period or his/her training has to be terminated in terms of the 
above or fails to serve in the post concerned in the hospital of relevant provincial council or the Line Ministry to 
which he/she is appointed or in Department of Health for a period of 5 years after the appointment he/she should refund 
the expenses incurred by the Government and the amount of the surety bond to the Department of Health.  If not 
legal action will be taken to recover the said amount as per the agreement.
10. Terms of engagement:
Upon completion of the training it will be decided to grant or not grant permanent appointments based on the number of 
vacancies existing at that time. Accordingly, where the Ministry of Health and Mass Media decides to grant permanent 
appointments to the relevant  post appointments will be made to the post of Nursing Officer in Grade III in accordance 
with the terms and conditions laid in the scheme of recruitment applicable to the training course to which recruitments 
were made and based on the number of vacancies existing and the appointees will be paid the salary applicable to                   
MT-7-2025 of the salary scale Rs. 54,920-10x800-11x1,190-10x1,320-10x1,350-102,710 by placing them on the  
04th    salary step as per the schedule III set out in the Public Administration Circular 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025
11. Particulars regarding the educational and other qualifications should be mentioned carefully and accurately in filling the 
applications. If the certificates were found to be false after admission to the training or after receiving an appointment, 
action will be taken to refer the case to the Department of Criminal Investigation in order to take legal action and to 
cancel the appointment and dismiss from the training/ post and disciplinary action will be taken and his/her name will 
be entered into the blacklist which is an index of the names of persons who will not be employed by the Government. 
Further, action will be taken to recover the allowance paid to him/ her during the period of training, expenses borne by 
the Government and the sum of the surety bond. 
12. Selected applicants should submit themselves to a medical examination within the first month of the training to prove 
that they are physically and mentally fit to follow the course concerned and to serve in any part of the Island and the 
applicants found not to be fit in the medical examination will not be eligible to continue the course.
13. Trainees have no right to engage either in trade union activities or in private practice during the period of training. If 
found to have done so, action will be taken to terminate the training or to take any other appropriate action.
14.  All recruited as above will be subjected to all rules and regulations applicable to the Public Officers, and provisions 
of the Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, polices prescribed by the Department of 
Health, Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Financial Regulations and the Nursing Service Minute and 
amendments made there to from time to time and general regulations imposed by the Government from time to time.
15. Ministry is not bound to provide residential facilities at the training schools for the applicants recruited to the training. 
If so provided assessed house and room rental, water and electricity bill will be charged. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1331
16. In case any problem arises in respect of any matter regarding recruitment to the training which is covered or not covered 
by this notification decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health and Mass Media shall be final and in case of any 
inconsistency between the text in Sinhala, Tamil and English, the text in Sinhala shall prevail.
 Dr. Anil Jasinghe,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Health and Mass Media.
18th July 2025 at Ministry of Health and Mass Media.
Application No.
                      
Specimen Form of Application Recruitment of B.Sc (Nursing) Graduates
for the  Orientation and Coordination Course in Nursing -2025
Read the General Circular carefully before completing the application      
 
01. Last name with initials. (In English 
capital letters) 
02.
Name in full 
(In English capital letters) 
03.
Name in full (In Sinhala / Tamil)
04. N.I.C. No.  
05. Telephone No. (WhatsApp)
06. Postal Address 
07. Permanent Address
08. District of residence 09. Whether you are permanent 
resident  in this district 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1332
10. Date of Birth Year Month Date
11. Age as at 08.08.2025 Years Months Date
12. Gender 
(Mark  in the relevant  cage) Female Male
13. Wether you are a citizen of Sri lanka 
(mark   in the relevant  cage) Yes No
14.
Educational Qualifications 
Degree Obtained Effective date of the 
degree GPA University Academic          
year
15. Have you ever been convicted before a court of law? (Mark √ in the 
relevant cage)
If yes give particulars.  
Yes No
16. Certification of the applicant 
 I solemnly declare that I read carefully and understood the Gazette Notification and completed the application subject to 
all conditions therein, that I do not attend any full time course and that the particulars furnished by me in the application 
are true and correct to my knowledge.
 I am also aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect I am liable 
to be disqualified for the training and if so found after appointment I am liable to be dismissed. 
 I am also aware that this is an external recruitment and if I complete / not complete the training successfully I cannot be 
reverted to the current post in any manner.
                           
Affix here the bank receipt obtained by
paying Rs. 1,000.00
……………………   ………..…….…………
Date                     Signature of the applicant

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1333
17. Attestation of the signature of the applicant.
 I hereby certify that Mr/Mrs / Miss ……………………………………………………………. who submits this   
application is personally known to me and he/she placed his / her and signature on ……………………………….. in 
my presence.
…………………...                                                                                   ……………………………
 Date Signature and official frank 
  of Attestor                           
                                                                                       
Full name of Attestor :  ………………………………...
Post :  …………………………………
Address :  …………………………………
18. If the applicant is in the Public service / Provincial Public Service certification of the Head of Department. (strike off  
the irrelevant words)
I hereby certify that the above candidate Mr/Mrs/Miss ………………………………...  holds the post of 
…………………………………………………… in this Department. I certify that the particulars furnished in the 
application are true and he / she can /cannot be released if he /she is selected for the training.
I also inform that he / she was explained that this is an external recruitment, he / she cannot be reverted to the current 
post in any manner after he / she successfully completes or not complete the training concerned.
 ………………….                …………………………………
 Date Signature and official frank of
  the Head of Department.
    
Name of the Head of Department  :  ………………………………...
Post :  …………………………………
Address :  …………………………………
07-766

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1334
MINISTRY OF HEALTH & MASS MEDIA
Recruitment for the Student Nursing Training – Year 2025
APPLICATIONS  are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens to recruit for the Student Nursing Training, of the Ministry of 
Health from 18.07.2025 to 12.08.2025 Applications could be submitted only through the official web site of the Ministry of 
Health & Mass Media. (www.health.gov.lk).
1. Important:
1.1.  Each applicant can submit only one application. If an applicant has submitted more than one application, 
all applications will be rejected. An applicant who has passed GCE A/L in the years 2020, 2021 and 
2022 should submit only one application. The applicant should submit only one application based on the 
preferred year of examination. Applicant should not submit separate applications for the separate years. If 
an applicant has submitted applications for more than one year all applications will be rejected.
1.2.  In the past few years, considering recruitment, it was observed that many other qualified students did 
not get even one such opportunity due to the registration of several courses by one student under the free 
education privileges of the government. Apart from this, the government’s money is being wasted due to 
this situation, and the planned goals of the relevant institutions cannot be achieved due to the lack of the 
expected number of trained professionals at the end of course. Therefore, necessary provisions to mitigate 
this situation and give every applicant at least one opportunity have been published in paragraph 5 of this 
gazette. Accordingly, as detailed in sub-paragraphs number 5.1 to 5.5, a person who is not eligible, should 
not apply for this course. However, if a person with such disqualification applies for this course and is 
discovered later, action will be taken against them as per sub-paragraph 9.3 of the gazette notification.   
1.3.  In past recruitments, it was observed that false information (false examination years, subjects, grades obtained 
etc.) was submitted in the applications. It has also been observed some applicants provide certificates with 
false information to the interview board. It is a serious offense. Therefore, no applicant should provide false 
information in the submitted e-application. If an applicant submits such false information the application 
will be rejected, applicants name will be submitted to Department of Criminal Investigation for necessary 
legal actions. Further their names will be included in the blacklisted names for recruiting to government 
service.
1.4.  Each applicant should read and understand this gazette and the information provided in the e- application. 
If the applicant is eligible to apply, ensure the receipt obtained by paying Rs.1,000/- to any Bank of Ceylon 
branch (as per paragraph 6.3) and the documents mentioned in 8.2.(c), 8.2.(d) and 8.2.(e) sections are 
available with you before you apply and submit the application.
02. Educational qualifications and other specific qualifications relevant to the post:
Table – 01
G.C.E.(O/L)
qualifications
G.C.E.(A/L)
qualifications
Other specific qualifications
relevant for the training course
Should have passed 06 subjects 
with credit passes for Sinhala/ 
Tamil Language, Mathematics, 
Science and English in not 
more than two sittings at the 
G.C.E.(O/L) examination.
Should have passed any 03 subjects from 
Biology, Chemistry, Agriculture, Physics 
and Mathematics which belong to Bio 
Science subject stream in one sitting at 
the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination either in 
2020 (Old Syllabus) or in 2020 (New 
Syllabus) or 2021 or in 2022. (Common 
General Test and General English is not 
considered as subjects)
	This fulltime training is of 
3 years duration and will be 
conducted in English medium
	Should be not less than 18 
years and not more than 28 
years of age at 12.08.2025

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1335
G.C.E.(O/L)
qualifications
G.C.E.(A/L)
qualifications
Other specific qualifications
relevant for the training course
or
Should have passed any 03 subjects from 
Combined Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Physics and Advanced Mathematics 
which belong to Physical Science subject 
stream in one sitting at the G.C.E. 
(A/L) Examination either in 2020 (Old 
Syllabus) or in 2020 (New Syllabus) or 
2021 or 2022. (Common General Test 
and General English is not considered as 
subjects)
	Should not be less than 4’10’’ 
(147.3 cm) in height.
	Should be unmarried.
	Both males and females can 
apply
03. Method of recruitment for training:
3.1.  Recruitments for the student Nursing Training is done from the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications 
in terms of the Sri Lanka Nursing Service Minute published in the Extra ordinary Gazette No. 1837/8 dated 
19.11.2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments made there from time to 
time. (Male applicants will be recruited based on the service exigency of the Institutions under the Ministry 
subject to the provisions of the Nursing Service Minute)
3.2. The total number to be recruited from the island will be divided in proportion to the population in each district 
and then the number recruited from each district will be determined.
3.3. Thereafter the number to be recruited from each district will be divided in proportion to the number of 
applicants who apply from the respective district in 2020 (Old Syllabus) or in 2020 (New Syllabus) or 2021 
or 2022 and have satisfied the minimum educational qualifications, and then number of recruits in each year 
from the respective districts will be determined.
3.4. Thereafter, the number of recruits from each examination will be divided in proportion to the number of 
applicants who apply and satisfied the minimum educational qualifications from the Bio Science and Physical 
Science subject streams in the respective year and then the number of recruits from the respective district in 
each year from each subject stream will be determined.
3.5. The number of recruits from each subject stream in each examination will be determined as such and 5% out 
of the total number will be male applicants and 95% will be for female applicants. Recruitments will be made 
from the applicants who have obtained the highest Z score from each subject stream in the respective district 
in each year.
04. Eligibility:
 Each applicant,
4.1. Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
4.2. Applicant should be excellent in character and be physically and mentally fit.
4.3 You should have been a permanent resident of the district for three consecutive years immediately prior to the 
closing date of applications i.e.12.08.2025. The Certificate of residence issued by the Grama Niladhari should 
be submitted. Where any applicant is unable to prove the residence during the preceding 3 years, they will not 
be eligible to be recruited from the current (residence) district. Based on the past districts of residence, the 
district in which he/she has lived longest duration of time will be considered for recruitment by the interview 
board. The applicant should provide necessary documents to prove the residence to the Interview Board.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1336
Note:
Where any candidate is unable to prove the residence during the preceding 3 years due to employment of his/
her father or mother in a transferrable service of the Government or of Provincial Public Service or as a state 
corporation or due to any other unavoidable reason, if he/she provides acceptable reasons, the final decision 
will be taken by the Secretary of Ministry of Health & Mass Media.
05. Who are not eligible to apply /get selected for the course:
5.1.   Students who are registered or currently following any fulltime/internal course conducted by a state university 
or a state university college recognized by the University Grants Commission under the national free education 
policy.
5.2.  Students who are registered or currently following any fulltime course conducted by a National College of 
Education of Sri Lanka.
5.3.  Students who are registered or currently following any fulltime course conducted by the Ministry of Health & 
Mass Media, or any other government institute. 
5.4.  If you have registered for a full-time course conducted by an institute which falls under 5.1, 5.2 or 5.3 above; 
even though, you cancelled your registration after this gazette is published, you are not eligible to apply or to 
get selected for the training.
5.5.  A student who has registered the marriage or a divorcee.
06. The method of application:
6.1. Candidates shall apply for the above training course via the official website of the Ministry of Health & 
Mass Media. (www.health.gov.lk). They are required to fill and submit the online application on the website. 
Instructions for filling the application form are available on the online application form. 
6.2. The application form should be filled in English only. 
6.3. Applicants should pay an amount of Rs. 1000/- to the Bank of Ceylon to the credit of the account of “ The 
Secretary of the Ministry of Health & Mass Media., Collection of Examination fee” Thaprobane Branch of 
Bank of Ceylon No. 7041318. Every applicant should arrange to pay this amount at any Bank of Ceylon 
branch before submitting the application, and should submit their application online only after entering the 
printed number of the received receipt in the relevant place of the application. This payment should not be 
made through a cash deposit machine or internet banking service. These fees are non-refundable for any 
reason and transfer for another exam is not allowed. You should keep the proof of payment (receipt) safe, 
and if you attend the interview, it must be presented. Accordingly, applicants who are observed to have made 
payments after submitting the application and applicants who fail to submit a receipt will be considered 
ineligible for recruitment. 
6.4. Obtaining the copy of submitted e-application and 05-digit code. 
(a). Every applicant who successfully submits an application in accordance with all the points mentioned in 
this gazette notification and the instruction sheet published on the website for completing the e-application 
will get a copy of their applications and a unique 05 number code as soon as his/her application is duly 
forwarded. 
(b). Every applicant should take a print-out of their application which appears on the computer screen. It 
does not need to be sent by post. It is your responsibility to keep this copy safe as this copy is the formal 
and only proof available to every applicant who has submitted an application to confirm that he/she has 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1337
submitted an application. In addition, by keeping the 05-digit code safe, copies of the application you have 
submitted can be obtained later. 
(c). Applicants who do not receive a copy of the application or 05-digit code after submitting their application 
should understand that their application has not been uploaded/submitted properly. All such persons will 
be treated as non-applicant students. Accordingly, such an applicant should immediately contact the 
Human Resource Management and Coordination Unit through the telephone and/or e-mail mentioned 
in paragraph 6.5.(a) below and resolve the problem regarding his/her application before 12.08.2025 and 
arrange to get the 05-digit code and the copy of the application that belongs to him/her., It is emphasized 
that this work is entirely the responsibility of the applicant. However, requests submitted after 12.08.2025 
in respect of e-applications that have not been formally addressed to this Ministry will not be considered 
at all. 
(d). Furthermore, an applicant must send a copy of his/her application along with every request made regarding 
any matter related to this recruitment, and it is further emphasized that no request submitted without it 
will be considered. 
6.5. Inquiries for essential information. 
 (a). If you have fulfilled the conditions and eligible to apply, any questions on completing the application, 
or assistance relating to section 6.4.(C) above, instructions could be obtained by contacting the Human 
Resources Management and Coordinating Unit of the Ministry of Health and Mass Media during working 
days of the week from 9.00 a.m. to 4.00 p.m. via telephone number 0112 340 007, can also be contacted at 
the e-mail address hrcodmoh@gmail.com. (Here it is always necessary to mention your national identity 
card number and a telephone number where you can be contacted)
 (b).  All necessary information has been published in the gazette and web site of the   Ministry of Health 
& Mass Media. Therefore, please do not call for any other reason. 
7. The attestation of the applicant's signature:
7.1. The signature of the applicant should be attested by an Officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service / an Officer 
in Sri Lanka Educational Administrative Service / an officer in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service / a Government 
Principal / a Justice of the Peace / An attorney of Law or an Officer who hold a permanent and pensionable 
post and draws an annual salary not less than Rs. 512, 148.00. 
7.2. The applications that are not complying with the above terms of the gazette or incomplete applications will be 
rejected without any notice.
8. If you are called for the interview, you shall submit the following documents:
8.1. Out of the applicants those who have satisfied the minimum educational qualifications, according to the 
successfully uploaded online application, only a selected number of applicants will be called for the interview 
based on a priority list prepared according to the Z score. A general interview will be held by a board of 
interview appointed by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health & Mass Media. The interview board will check 
the qualifications and physical fitness required for the post by the Service Minute and this gazette notification. 
Applicants shall submit the Originals of the following documents mentioned in Sub-paragraph 8.2. (a)  to 8.2. 
(j) of paragraph 8.at the interview. 
8.2. If due to unavoidable reasons (Acceptable to the Interview Board) any applicant is unable to submit any 
certificate/document on that day, the representative of this ministry shall approach the Deputy Director 
General (Admin) II within 7 days from the date of the interview as per the instructions of the Interview Board. 
All applicants who fail to do so will be considered ineligible for selection.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1338
(a). Printed copy of the uploaded application (Duly attested by an officer as mentioned in Sub-paragraph 
7.1.)
(b). Birth Certificate.
(c). G.C.E. (A/L) result sheet with the Z score (Issued by the Examinations    
         Department)
(d). G.C.E (O/L) result sheet (Issued by the Examinations Department).
(e). National Identity Card issued by Department for Registration of Persons or    valid passport or 
valid Sri Lankan driving license. 
(f). Receipt obtained for the payment of Rs.1,000.00 to the Bank.
(g). Certificate of proving residence issued by the Grama Niladhari. (DS – 04)
(h). School leaving certificate. (Education B-59)
(i). A formal affidavit signed over a stamp at the value of Rs. 50/- in the presence of a   Justice of the 
Peace to confirm that the applicant is not married or divorced as per sub-paragraph 5.5.
(j). A solemn declaration of the candidate. (Self-declared certificate to prove that one is free of 
disqualifications as per sub-paragraphs 5.1 to 5.4 of paragraph 5) 
8.3. Note:
In addition to the originals of the documents mentioned as per sub-paragraphs b, c, d, e and h of paragraph 8.2 
above true copies of the originals certified by the applicant himself/herself should be brought to the interview.
9. Other Information:
9.1.  If you have completed a degree in any University, the effective date should be a date which is earlier than the 
date of application i.e., 18.07.2025 to the course. 
9.2. It should be strictly noted that no section contained in this gazette notification implies that you will be selected 
to the course applied for even the above conditions have been fulfilled. It should also be noted even if you 
have satisfied the above conditions, you are not eligible for above course, if you have not obtained a sufficient 
Z score to be eligible or if you have not fulfilled any other condition.
9.3. Subsequent to the recruitment for the training if it is revealed that you are not eligible for the training as you 
have got registered/ or was following a fulltime programme as mentioned in 5.1, 5.2 or 5.3 above or if you are 
not eligible under 5.4 or 5.5 conditions you will be withdrawn from the training /dismissed from the post and 
all the expenses incurred by the government until then will be recovered from you. Further, their names will 
be included in the blacklisted names for recruiting to government service.
9.4.  The validity date of all educational and other certificates submitted for verification of eligibility should be on 
or before 12.08.2025 which is the last date of submission of applications.
9.5.  Also, after applying for this course without the qualifications specified in the gazette notification, this ministry 
will not bear any responsibility for the inconvenience caused to the applicant. 
9.6. Secretary of the Ministry of Health & Mass Media shall decide the number of applicants    to be called for 
the interview and number to be selected for training based on the capacity of the training schools and service 
requirements.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1339
9.7. Any section herein does not mean that those who are called for the interview are selected   and it should not be 
understood so.
9.8. After conducting the interview, the information about the selected applicants will be published on the website 
of this Ministry http://www.health.gov.lk and no one will be notified personally. However, if it is necessary to 
inform about specific information that arises from time to time, they will be done through the phone number 
and email address that you have submitted with the application. Therefore, it is your responsibility to keep 
the telephone numbers and email address provided with the application form unchanged and active, and this 
Ministry will not be responsible for any problematic situations that may occur due to the fact that the relevant 
information is not communicated in a timely manner due to such changes or being inactive. 
9.9. Appeals will not be considered for any reason by the applicants who have fulfilled   the qualifications in terms 
of this Gazette, but failed to attend the interview/s. Further appeals will not be considered by the applicants 
who have not got registered to the course following selection on the due date. 
10. Scheme of training:
10.1.  Applicants selected from the interview will be admitted to training schools to follow the training course. 
Period of the course and the medium in which the course should be followed mentioned in table 01.
10.2. Trainees who are admitted to the training schools will be subject to the rules and regulations which are effective 
in the training schools and the orders imposed by the Ministry of Health and Mass Media from time to time.
10.3. Training of those who fail the prescribed examinations, whose work and conduct are not satisfactory of 
who fail to adhere to relevant conditions of examination and conditions of leave of the training school or 
whose educational and other qualifications are found to be false, may be terminated at any time without any 
compensation.
10.4.  A monthly allowance will be paid to the trainees during the training in terms of the provisions of section VI 
of Public Administration circular 10/2025
10.5. At the time of admission to the training school, the training will be successfully completed and the course 
will not be abandoned, and if appointed in the relevant position after the completion of the training, will serve 
for a period of at least ten (10) years under the public/provincial public service, nominated by the Secretary 
of the Ministry of Health & Mass Media. An agreement must be entered into with a receiving officer and 
the guarantee presented by the Ministry of Health regarding your training and compulsory service period 
with two recognized guarantors. According to 10.3 above, students who withdraw from training during the 
training period, leave training, have to be removed from training or fail to serve in the relevant position for 
a period of ten (10) years after being appointed will be removed from training / position and paid to them by 
the government during the relevant period. Allowances, fees incurred and contracted amounts shall be paid 
to the Ministry of Health & Mass Media. If not, steps will be taken to recover the money according to the 
agreement and legally.
10.6. Applicants applying for nursing training must be unmarried/not divorced by the commencing date of the 
application process, and it is mandatory to remain unmarried during the training period. 
11. Terms of Employment:
11.1. Government is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. However, the candidates 
will be considered for appointing to a post in Class III of the post concerned on the basis of the merit obtained 
at the final examination of the training to fill the vacancies remaining after making the transfers of senior 
officers, according to the priority list of vacancies prepared based on the vacancies exist as at the date of 
completion of the training. Further selected applicants should serve in any part of the Sri Lanka, based on 
existing vacancies.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1340
11.2. If permanent appointment is granted at the end of the training period, salaries will be paid in terms of the 
provisions of the Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025.
11.3. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in the 
application. If the above certificates are proved to be false after recruitment to the training or after appointment, 
action will be taken to refer the case to the Criminal Investigation Department for taking legal action / to 
cancel the appointment, to dismiss him/her from the training / post, and to enter his / her name into the black 
list of those who are not permitted to be reemployed in the Public Service after taking disciplinary action 
against him / her. Action will be taken to recover the allowance paid to him / her during the training period, 
expenses incurred by the Government, and the amount of the Agreement and Surety Bond.
11.4. Selected applicants should submit themselves for a medical examination during the first month of the training 
to certify that the applicant is physically and mentally fit to follow the course and to serve in any part of the 
Island and if an applicant is found to be unfit from the medical examination, he / she will be disqualified from 
the training.
11.5. All persons selected as above will be subjected to provisions of the Establishment Code of Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka rules, regulations and orders imposed by the Public Service Commission 
regarding the Public Service, provisions of the service minutes, Financial Regulations, circulars and 
instructions of the Government and orders imposed and amendments made thereto from time to time.
11.6. This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities in the training schools for the applicants recruited for 
the training. If such facilities provided, rent assessed for a housing room, water and electricity charges will 
be charged.
11.7. You have no right to engage in trade union activities during the period of training. If it is found to have done 
so you will be removed from training or take other appropriate action.
11.8. If any problem arises regarding recruitment to the training or any matter covered or not covered by this 
Gazette notification, the decision of the Secretary of Health & Mass Media., will be the final. In case of any 
inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text, the text in Sinhala will prevail. 
  Dr. Anil Jasinghe,
  Secretary,
  Ministry of Health & Mass Media.
11th July, 2025
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Rev Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo-10.
07-690
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
AMENDMENT
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE)
Student Recruitment for the Academic Year - 2025
THIS has reference to the Gazette Notice published on 13 th June, 2025, regarding student recruitment for the Sri Lanka 
Institute of Advanced Technological Education (SLIATE) for the Academic Year 2025. The closing date to apply for the 
Higher National Diploma Programmes has been extended up to 28th July 2025. For more information please visit the official 
website www.sliate.ac.lk or apply.sliate.ac.lk.
 Director General,
 Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education  
 (SLIATE).
07-726

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1341
CEYLON  GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING  INSTITUTE  - MORATUWA
Ministry  Of  Education,  High  Education  &  Vocational  Education
Vocational Division
ADMISSION  FOR  THE  FULL  TIME  COURSES  UNDER  THE  NATIONAL  APPRENTICESHIP  
SCHEME - 2025
APPLICATIONS  are invited from Male & Female candidates who hold following minimum qualifications for the 
admission of Year 2025
01. (a)  Age – Between 16 - 22 years as at 18.08.2025
 (b) Educational Qualification -
Passed in 06 subjects at the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination including Sinhala/Tamil language (Medium) and Mathematics 
in one sitting;
    or
Passed in 06 subjects at the Landon (O/L) Examination including English language and Mathematics in one sitting.
01. Applicants who have special skills
 Candidates who have placed among first three places in a Provincial level competition or obtain a certificate of merit 
or above by a National Competition of Sri Lanka Inventors Commission in Electrical/ Electronic/ Mechanical fields 
and have completed the above section (b) qualifications with not less than two attempts are also qualified to sit for the 
examination.
 Note: Candidates who have bonded with the National Apprentice & Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) for a period 
of 03 years or more are not eligible to apply for these full time courses.
02. Course Medium :-
 All courses are conducted in Sinhala medium. Only Automobile course will be conducted in Tamil medium too. 
Theoretical lectures will be conducted in English medium too.
03. Entrance Examination:
 Applicants who possess the requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit for the admission test provided 
examination fees referred to in column 4 below have been paid.
(a) Medium of Examination: Sinhala / Tamil
(b) Examination Centers
 Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Badulla, Anuradhapura & Vavuniya. (The candidates who have applied from examination 
centers where there is no adequate number of candidates will be directed to the other centers)
 Examination Subjects:
 The examination will consist of two question papers based on Mathematics, General knowledge, Intelligence test, 
Technical knowledge, English knowledge and Technical Drawing.
04. Examination Fees:-
 Thousand Rupees (Rs.1000/-) should be paid online as examination fees according to the method mentioned in the 
application. The payments made other than this method will not be accepted.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1342
Examination fees will not be refunded due to non-appearing for the examination or for any other reason.
05. Primary Selection :-
 Primary selection of candidates for admission will be merit based on the written examination and those who obtain the 
required highest marks will be called for the aptitude test and the interview. Cutoff marks for less privileged provinces 
would be decided by the Management of CGTTI. (Less privileged provinces are decided according to Sri Lanka 
Examination Department)
06. Final Selection :-
 Those who obtained highest marks from aptitude test and interview would be considered for final selection. 40% marks 
are allocated for aptitude test & 60% for the interview. Extra curricular activities are specially considered.
 The selected candidates will have to go through a medical examination and those who fail the medical test will be 
discontinued.
07. Training Courses :-
Serial 
No. Course Duration
(Years)
01 Automobile Technician 04
02 Millwright Technician 04
03 Refrigeration & Air Conditioning Technician 03½
04 Power Electrical Technician (Industrial) 03½
05 Machinist (General) 03½
06 Industrial Mechatronics Technician 03½
07 Diesel Mechanic 03
08 Automobile Electrician 03
09 Welder 03
10 Motor Vehicle Body Repairer & Painter 03
 You should select the above course in the application form in the order of Priority accordin to your preference.
08. Bond to be signed :-
All selected candidates are required to enter in to a bond to undergo full time training at CGTTI for periods ranging 
from 03, 03 ½ ,04 years in their allocated Trades and enter in to an agreement with the National Apprentice & Industrial 
Training Authority (NAITA) as per their requirements.
09. Instructions for Applying :-
All applicants should apply only through the online system.
Online application should be filled only in English, and it can be accessed through the following link.
fta.germantec.lk
Technical Support – 0701640650 (08.00 a.m. to 05.00 p.m.)
The instructions given through the above link should be read and understood before applying.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.07.2025
1343
All applicants have been given the facility to obtain a printable document (PDF) of the application after submitting.
The printed application along with the photo copies of the following certificates should be sent by registered post to 
the following address.
(a) Birth Certificate,
(b) G.C.E. O/L Certificate,
(c) Applicants who apply under special skills should forward the certificate of Provincial/National level 
competition issued by Sri Lanka Inventors Commission.
The envelope in which application is enclosed should be marked, “Recruitment of Apprentice – 2025” on the top 
left-hand corner.
The institution will not bear any responsibility for the inconvenience caused to the applicant due to not paying attention 
to the instructions given above, and if the information submitted by the applicant is found to be false or fraudulent, the 
applicant will be disqualified for further examinations conducted by the institute.
For further information can be obtained through the website www.germantec.lk
10. Closing date of applications :-
 The online application should be completed on or before 18.08.2025 following the instructions provided through the 
link under No.09.
11. Admission cards :-
 Admission cards for the examination will be sent to all qualified candidates by 18th August 2025. If any candidate does 
not receive the admission card, contact over the telephone number given below within 03 days from the date.
Manager – HR & Administration
Ceylon German Technical Training Institute 
No. 582, Galle Road,
Mount Lavinia.(Angulana Junction) 
Telephone -0112605625/0112605535
07-732
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.