

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province  ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 88
(Published by Authority)
PA RT  III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"073- 2018 uehs ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'05'25    
No. 2,073 - FRIdAy,  MAy 25,  2018
                                                          
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  14th June,  2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 1st  June, 2018.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
Government Printer (Acting)
department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2018.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
87 - B 81284-353 (2018/05)
Note .-    Mutual Assistance in  Criminal Matters  (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of 
the Democratic  Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of May 18, 2018                                                                         .

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'25
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 25.05.2018
88
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/19328.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: SPLC/DEV/05/
AMBT/575'
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe   
LAnD  ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It is hereby notified that for the  Residential Purpose,  Mrs. 
Orukotte Muhandiramge Somawathi has requested on lease a 
state land  containing in extent about 20 Perches  out of  extent 
Marked as  depicted in the Tracing Cetified by the  Divisional 
Secretary and situated in the village of Koggalla belongs to 
the  Grama Niladhari division of Koggalla coming within the 
area of authority of the  Ambalanthota divisional Secretariat 
in the  district of Hambanthota. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
 
On the North by : Road Reservation and Land  of K. M. 
Babasingho  ;
On the East by : Land  of James Senarathna and K. M. 
Babasingho  ;
On the  South by :  Land  of James Senarathna and Susil 
Priyanandage  ;
On the West by :  Land of Susil Priyanandage and Road 
Reservation.   
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and  the  following condition. 
 (a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years (from 
15.06.1995 on wards);
(b)  The Annual Rent  of the Lease.– 4% of the Undeveloped 
value of the  land as per valuation of the Chief  for the 
Year 1995 ;
  Penalty .- Treble  4% of the developed value of the  
land ;
 (c) the  lessees  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the divisional Secretary ;
 
(d) the lessees must not use this land for any purpose  
other than for  the Residential purpose  ;
 (e) this  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary  and   by other institutions;
 (f)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 (h)  No  sub - leasing can be  done  until the expiry  of a 
minimun period  of 05 years;
 (i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this  notice is published 
in the  Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
K. g. a. K. Palugaswawa,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura",  
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
25th May, 2018.
05-608
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/41540.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: NP/28/04/2/01/73.     
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose,Abdul 
Cader  Najimudeen has requested on lease a  State land 
containing in extent about  0.0170 Hec.  out of  extent marked  
Lot  No. 1778  as depicted in the Plan No. BSVP 66 and 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'25 
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 25.05.2018
89
situated in the village of Vavuniya which  belongs to the  
Grama Niladhari division of    Vavuniya   coming  within  
the area of authority of  Vavuniya   divisional Secretariat in 
the  district of   Vavuniya. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Lot  No. 1777 ;
On the East by : Lot  No.  1776 2/2;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 1779  ;
On the West by : Road. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved                    
conditions and the following  conditions : - 
 (a)  Terms   of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years ,  (from 
2018.03.03 onwards ).
  The Annual  rent of the Lease.–  In the instances where 
the  assessed value  of the  land  in the  year  2018  is  
less than Five  Million Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000)  2% 
of the market value of  the  land in  the  said  year,  as 
per the valuation of the Chief  Valuer. In the Instances 
where the  assessed value  of the   land  in the  effective 
year  of  the  lease in the more than    Five Million  
Rupees  (Rs. 5,000,000),  4% of  the market value of 
the land  in the  said year, as a  per  valuation of the   
Chief  Valuer. this  amount  of the  lease must  be   
revised in the   every  five  years and the  revision shall 
add   20%  to the  amount  that  just  preceded. 
  Premium .-  Not levied;
 (b)  The lessee must, within one (01)  year of the  
commencement of the lease, develop  the said  land,   
in susch a manner as to  captivate the mind  of the 
divisional Secretary;
 
 (c) the lessee must not use  this land  for any purpose 
other than  Commercial  Purpose;
 (d) this lease  must  also  be  subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated and  imposed by the  divisional 
Secretary/Scoping Committee/Board of Investment of 
Sri Lanka  and by  other  institutions;  
 (e)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
 (f)  Once the  land  is given on lease and  in the  event of  
failure on the part  of the  lessees to  substantiate within 
the    specified  time  frame the purpose for  which  the 
land  was  obtained action will be  taken to terminate  
the  lease ; 
 (g) No sub - leasing  can  be done  until the expiry of a  
minimum period  of 05 years;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease  must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased 
out as requested. 
 K. g. a.K. Palugaswewa , 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
25th May,  2018.
02-607
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/53002.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: NCP/PLC/L7/10/4.   
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for  Charitable  purpose, The Board  
of Trustees of Lanka  National Sarvodaya  Shramadana Society  
has  requested on lease a state land  containing in extent  about 
1.9176 He.  Marked  as Lot   No. 3495   in   plan  F. U. P. 3 
and   situated in the village of   Stage II which  belongs  to  the  
Grama Niladhari Division of No. 254, coming  within  the area 
of authority of  the Nuwaragam Palatha  - Eastern  divisional  
Secretariat in the  district of  Anuradhapura .

<!-- page 4 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'25
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 25.05.2018
90
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Road Reservation   ;
On the East by : Road Reservation    ;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 3496  ;
On the West by : Road Reservation.
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the  fllowing  conditions  : - 
 (a)   First Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30),  ( from 
13.02.1978 up to 12.02.2008) ;
   The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 1/2% of the   
undeveloped value of  the   land  as per  valuation  of  
the chief valuer for  the  year 1978.
 (b)  Second Terms  of the Lease. –  T h i r t y    Y e a r s  ( 3 0 ) ,                         
(from 12.02.2008 on Words) 
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 1/2% of the   
undeveloped value of  the   land  as per  valuation  of  
the chief valuer for  the  year 2008.
 (c) this  lessee  must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the divisional Secretary ;
 (d) the lessees must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the Purpose of  Charity ; 
 (e) the  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the divisional 
Secretary and   by other  Institutions;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the  lease ;  
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done  until the expiry  of 
a  minimum period of 05 years from the  date of 
13.02.1978 except Subleasing  or transferring to /fulfill 
the  purpose  fo this lease  ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse; 
04. If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date of publication of this  notification  
in this  Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
Pubudi Premadasa ,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s department,
No. 1200/6,   Land Secretariate, 
"Mihikatha Medura",   
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
25th  May, 2018.
05-680
PRINtEd  At  tHE  dEPARtMENt  OF  GOVERNMENt  PRINtING,  SRI  LANKA.