

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of May 13, 2016
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 16. 05. 2016)
SRI LANKA WOMEN’S CONFERENCE
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Sri Lanka Women’s Conference
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Lakshman Ananda Wijemanne M. P.
for Kalutara District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Women’s Conference (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009930—275  (05/2016)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA WOMEN’S CONFERENCE
WHEREAS an association called and known as the “Sri
Lanka Women’s Conference” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
concerned with the said association according to the rules
agreed to by its members: and whereas the said association
has heretofore been successfully carried out and transacted
the several objects and matters for which it was established
and has applied to be incorporated and it will be for the
public advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Women’s
Conference (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2016.
2. From and after the commencement of this act, such
and so many members as now are members of the Sri Lanka
Women’s Conference (hereinafter referred to as
“Conference”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Sri Lanka
Women’s Conference” and by that name shall and may sue
and be sued in all courts with full power and authority to
have and to use a common seal and to change and alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to hold conferences on subjects of public interest
with special reference to women and children;
(b) to work towards the improvement of the status of
women;
Preamble.
Short Title.
Incorporation
of the Sri
Lanka
Women’s
Conference.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Women’s Conference (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to maintain a watching brief on public affairs in
matters pertaining to women and children in order
to safeguard their rights and address problems to
the relevant authorities for solutions;
(d) to provide adequate opportunities to encourage
independent research by women and women’s
organizations;
(e) to promote cooperation and understanding among
women and women’s organizations irrespective of
race, religion and political opinion;
(f) to encourage all women to take their due share of
responsibility in society;
(g) to affiliate, collaborate, federate or cooperate with,
subscribe to, or become members of any other
organized body, specialized agency or association,
whether local or foreign corporate or unincorporate
having aims and objects similar to those of the
Corporation;
(h) to do all such other things as may be necessary for,
or incidental or conducive to the attainment of the
objects of the Corporation, and generally for the
benefit, advancement and welfare of its members.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
account, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds,
to erect any building or structures on any land held by the
General
powers of the
Corporation.30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Women’s Conference (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the Corporation.
5. The Board of Management of the Corporation shall
cause to be maintained a register in which every person who
on the date of commencement of this Act, is a member of the
Corporation and every person thereafter duly admitted a
member of the Corporation shall have inscribed in such
register his name, address and such other particulars as may
be prescribed under the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation.
6. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act
and rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, vest
in a Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “the
Council”) consisting of such number of governors elected
from among the members in accordance with the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation.
(2) The members of the Governing Council of the
Conference whose names are set out in the Schedule to this
Act, and holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this, shall be the members of the first
Council of the Corporation.
(3) The Council shall have the power to appoint new
members.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting of the members, and by the
votes of not less than two thirds of the members present and
voting to make rules not inconsistence with the provisions
of this Act, for the admission, withdrawal, recognition,
retirement or expulsion of members, for the conduct of the
duties of the Executive Committee, and of the officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation for the procedure to be
followed in the transaction of business and otherwise
Register of
members.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Women’s Conference (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
30
generally for the management of affairs of the Corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made
may at like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to
amended or rescinded.
(2) The rules of the Corporation in force at the time of the
coming into operation of this Act shall be decreed to be the
rules of the Corporation made under this section, and may
be altered, added to, amended, rescinded or replaced by the
rules made under this Act.
8. All debts and liabilities of the said Corporation, on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscription and contributions payable to the
Conference on that date shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
testamentary disposition, donations, contribution and fees
deposited in the names of the Corporation in one or more
banks as may be decided by the Committee of Management.
(2) There shall be paid out from the fund, all sums of
moneys to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper account to
be kept of all moneys received and expended by the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and the balance sheet shall
be certified by the Auditor or Auditors who shall be an
associate member or members of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Conference.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Women’s Conference (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of members of the Board of Management of the
Corporation as may be provided in the rules who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the  signing of any
person as a witness.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable, or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
subscription, gift, grant, testamentary disposition or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose
of the same.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is or
are by rules prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members.
14. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or anybody corporate or
any other persons except such as are mentioned in this Act
and those claiming by, from, or under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable or
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Women’s Conference (Incorporation)6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .