

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
693
693
wxl 1"703 - 2011 wfm%a,a ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2011'04'21
No. 1,703 – THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 696
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 702
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th April, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th April,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,702 of 15.04.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
694
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
695
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
696
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer  Vacancies
V ACANCIES exists for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in
the Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :–
(a) Technical Engineering Branch,
(b) Dental Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing
the professional qualifications given below :
(a) Technical Engineering Branch :
Technical Engineering Officers - Male (Regular)
* Full time four (4) year B. Sc. in Aeronautical/Mechanical/
Automobile Engineering from a recognized University or
three (03) year full time National Diploma in Technology
(NDT) in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
Moratuwa or three and half (3 1/2) year full time Higher
National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (HNDE)
from Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education or Diploma in Technology in Mechanical
Engineering from Open University of Sri Lanka.
(b) Dental Branch :
Dental Surgeons - Male/Female (Regular/V olunteer) :
Flight Lieutenant : BDS or equivalent with full registration
with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Dental Students – Male/Female (Regular) :
Pilot Officer : Completed final BDS Part I and studying
in the final year (Selected students will be released from
the Air Force until completion of final year. They will
also be commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS degree and full registration with the
SLMC).
3. Other Entry requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried.
(c) Gender : Male/Femal (As applicable)
(d) Height : Male - 5'5" and above
Female - 5'4" and above
(e) Age : As at 31st May, 2011
(1) Technical : Not more than 30 years
Engineering and
Dental Branches
(Dental Students)
(2) Dental Branch : Not more than 35 years
(Dental Surgeons)
(f) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(g) Vision colour standard : CP2
(h) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6
(with or without spectacles).
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height, provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer or Flight Lieutenant as applicable in keeping
with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the Officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every Officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the President's pleasure".
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act,
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
697
service will also be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance
and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married Officers not in occupation of married quarters will be
entitled to a rental allowance as stated in para 15(b)(16).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for Commissioned Officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot officer - Rs. 229,200 p. a.
Flying officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 -
Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 -
Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 -
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060  - 18 x 12,600 -
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable Dental Officers :
Grade II - Rs. 306,180 - 4 x 7,740 - 8 x 7,800 -
Rs. 399,540
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 16 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140.
(c) Other allowances applicable to Dental Officers :
(1) Personable allowances :
Grade II - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non personable allowances :
Grade II - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 10,000 per month
(4) Extra duty payments :
Grade II - Rs. 280 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 300 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d)
are to be calculated separately as applicable.
(d) Serivce Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,250 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after
five years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for
those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month
(Rs. 100 will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim Allowance for Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if
permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 11,464 per month (if
permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year
(for officer, spouse and children).
(12) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in
Messes to travel from the Mess to the hometown
once a month.
(13) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(14) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(15) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled
to a free bus pass to travel from residence to
place of work within 30 miles radius.
(16) Rent allowance for married officers not in
occupation of a government married quarter Pilot
Officer to Group Captain and above Rs. 1,850 to
Rs. 4,250 per month.
(17) Service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Dental Officers in
consideration to the number of complete years
of service).
(18) Additional service allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Dental Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 29th April, 2011
under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked “Application for
Commission in the .............. branch” Applications received
after the closing date and not in accordance with the
requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
698
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two responsible
persons who are personally acquainted with the
applicant ;
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
* Note .– Originals of these certificates should be
produced only if and when the applicant is called for
the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The
final selection will then be made after an interview
appointed by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid in this
respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card isued by the Department of Registration of
Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such
candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment
will not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P . O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  COMMISSION  IN  THE  SRI  LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER  AIR FORCE IN THE ........... BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (as per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branc applied :–––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
9. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
10. Height : –––––––'  –––––––––"
11. District :–––––––––––.
12. Electorate :–––––––––––.
13. G. S. Division :–––––––––––.
14. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
15. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained :
Name of School/University Type of examination Year of examination Subjects passed (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional Qualifications
Other

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
699
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University : (if applicable) :
Name and Address of Employer Nature of employment Period of service
From                            To
18. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present Address
Father :
Mother :
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
20. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc., and s tandards/
levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :––––––– –––.
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :–––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank, Nation al
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates wh o are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
04–654
BUILDINGS  DEPARTMENT
Vacancies
(i) Technical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technological Service
(Civil) - Class II Segment “B”
(ii) T echnical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technical Officer
(Electrical) - Class II Segment “B”
(iii) Dra ughts Person in the Sri Lanka Technological Service
– Training Grade
Applications are invited by the Director General of Buildings
from the citizens of Sri Lanka possessing minimum qualifications
stated in this notification for the above vacant posts in the Ministry
of Construction, Engineering Services, Housing and Common
Amenities and in the Buildings Department.
2.0 Applications prepared using both sides of A4 paper and in
accordance with the specimen form appended to this notification
should be reached by “Director General of Buildings, Buildings
Department, “Sethsiripaya” Battaramulla” on or before 23.05.2011
by Registered Post.  Post applied should be indicated in the top left
hand corner of the envelope.  Applications from officers in the
Public Service must be forwarded through the Heads of Departments.
Late and incomplete applications shall be rejected.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
700
 3.0 Conditions of Recruitment :
3.1 The post is permanent and pensionable.  Selected
applicants are liable to contribute to the Widows’ and
Orphans’ Pension Scheme/Widowers’ and Orphans’
Pension Scheme.
3.2 The applicant will be subject to the provisions of section
10-12, chapter 11 of the Establishment Code.
3.3 Selected applicants should abide by the provisions of the
Establishment Code, the Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders and any other Regulations or Orders
issued from time to time by the Government.
4.0 General Qualifications:
4.1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4.2 Should have an excellent moral character and should be
physically sound.
4.3 Applicants should serve in any part of the Island in which
you are called upon to serve.
4.4 Should not be less than 18 years and not be more than 45
years of age at the closing date of application.  (The
maximum age limit will not apply for those who are already
in the Public Service.)
5.0 Educational Qualifications required for all posts:
5.1 Should have passed the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination in six (06) subjects with four (04) Credit
passes including Language or Literature, Mathematics,
Science and any other subject in not more than two
sittings ; and
5.2 Should have passed the G .C.E. (Advanced Level)
Examination with three (03) Science subjects including
Applied Mathematics/Pure Mathematics/Combined
Mathematics and Physics  in one sitting.
6.0 Other Qualifications Required:
6.1 Draughts Person – Training Grade:
In addition to the educational qualifications stated in 5.0
above, one of the following related technological
qualification should be completed and possess the relevant
certificate at the closing date of application.
(i) Full time training course of one year on draughtsman
ship from a recognized Government Technical
College.
(ii) Any other technological qualification recognized by
the Sri Lanka Technological Service Board as being
equivalent to the Technological qualification
mentioned above.
6.2 Technical Officer (Civil) - Class II Segment “B”:
Technical Officer (Electrical) - Class II Segment“B”:
In addition to the above qualifications in 5.0, one of the
following professional qualifications in relevant field
should be completed and possess the relevant certificate
at the closing date of applications.
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or Hardy Technical Institute,
Ampara,
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by the
National Apprenticeship and Industrial Training
Authority,
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by
the Ministry of Education and Higher Education,
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open
University of Sri Lanka,
(v) Successfully completed the 1st part of the engineering
Examinations conducted by the Institute of
Engineering Sri Lanka,
(vi) Any other technological qualifications recognized by
the Sri Lanka Technological Service Board as being
equivalent to the technological qualification mentioned
above.
7.0 Selection Criteria :
7.1 Conditions of competitive written Examination:
Eligible applicants have to sit for the written competitive
examination and obtain minimum of 40% marks for each question
paper to qualify.
Applicants will be called for an interview in accordance with the
order of marks obtained at the examination and selection will be in
order of the marks.  No marks will be given at the interview other
than examination educational and other certificates.
7.2 Syllabus for the competitive written examination:
(i) Technical knowledge (01 hour)
For the post of Technical Officer (Civil)
¾ Dimensions‚ knowledge of plans‚ foundations,
types of soil, building materials, building structures
and finishes, taking of quantities through building
plans, preparation of estimates, water supply and
sewerage systems.
For the post of Technical Officer (Electrical)
¾ Knowledge on electric circuits, electrical regulations‚
knowledge of plans, preparation of estimates and
testing of circuits

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
701
For the post of Draughts Person
¾ Ability to draw plans for buildings in a suitable
scale and preparation of notes.
(ii) General Knowledge and Intelligence Test ( 01 hour)
¾ Geography of Sri Lanka, History, Politics, Sports and
important events occurred recently (including
international achievements),
¾ Important events in the World, Capital cities,
International Organizations and their functions,
¾ Ability to comprehend, logical common sense, Decision
making, solving  statistical and mathematical problems‚
phrases, knowledge on using tables, graphs, pictures
and diagrams.
7.3 Examination will be held in Sinhala and Tamil Medium.
8.0 Recruitment :
8.1 Selected applicants with educational and technical
qualifications under above 5.1, 5.2 and 6.1 will be
recruited to the Draughts Person – Training Grade.
Promotion to Class II Segment “B” of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service will be made once passing the
relevant examination after completing one year
Theoretical and Practical training as per syllabus.
8.2 Selected applicants with educational and professional
qualifications under above 5.1, 5.2 and 6.2 will be
recruited to Class II Segment “B” in Sri Lanka
Technological Service.
9.0 Salary Scale.–  Rs. 15,005- 4 x 180- 6x240- 11x320-20 x360
- Rs. 27,885 under MN-3-2006A of Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(IV)
10.0 Scheme of Promotion .–  All promotions will be made in
accordance with the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Technological
Service.
11.0 Implementation of Official Language Policy.– As per Public
Administration Circular No.07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by
the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs, all officers
recruited to the Public Service after 01.07.2007 should acquire
proficiency in the other official language within a period of five
(05) Years in addition to the official language through which they
enter the service.
D. G. S. J
AYAKODY,
Director General of Buildings.
Buildings Department,
Sethsiripaya,
Battaramulla.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
B
UILDINGS DEP ARTMENT
(i) Technical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technological Service
(Civil) - Class II “B”,
(ii) T echnical Officer in the Sri Lanka Technological Service
(Electrical) - Class II “B”,
(iii) Draughts Person in Sri Lanka Technological Service -
Training Grade.
For office use.
Medium for competitive written examination
Sinhala   -  S
Tamil     -  T
(write the relevant English letter in the cage.)
Post applied :
Technical Officer (Civil) - 1
Technical Officer (Electrical) - 2
Draughts Person - 3
(write the relevant number in the cage.)
01. (i) Last name with initials :––––––––––.
(ii) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/in Tamil) :–––––.
(iii) Name with initials (state in capital letters.) :––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Numbers :
(i) Official Address :–––––––––––.
Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Personal Address :–––––––––––.
(iii) Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
(iv) Mobile Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
03. Gender :
Male         -  0
Female      -  1
(write the relevant number in the cage.)
04. National Identity Card Number :
05. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :                         Month :                Date :
(ii)  Age as at the closing date of application :
Y ears :                       Months :               Days :
06. Marital Status :
Unmarried -  1
Married -  2
(write the relevant Number in the cage.)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
702
07. Particulars of G.C.E. (O/L) Examination (First sitting) (Please
attach copies)
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) In dex Number :––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
...................... ................ .................... ..................
...................... ................ .................... ..................
...................... ................ .................... ..................
...................... ................ .................... ..................
...................... ................ .................... ..................
08. Particulars of the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination(second sitting) if
required only (Please attach copies) :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) In dex Number :––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
...................... ................ .................... ..................
...................... ................ .................... ..................
...................... ................ .................... ..................
09. Particulars on the G .C.E (A/L) Examination (Please attach
copies):
Year the Examination passed :––––––––––.
Month :––––––––––.  Date :––––––––––.
Index Number :––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
...................... ................ .................... ..................
...................... ................ .................... ..................
10. Other qualifications : Technical/Professional (Please attach
copies) :––––––––––.
11. Experience in relation to the relevant field :––––––––––.
12. Certification of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the information given above is true and
correct.  I am also aware that if any particulars contained here is
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if
detect before selection and to dismissal without compensation, if
detect after appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
O
NLY FOR THE APPLICANTS WHO ARE IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
This applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… is presently attached
to this Ministry/Department as a permanent/temporary/casual
officer.  He/She can be released/cannot be released if selected to the
above post.
                                                             –––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Institute.
(Official Seal)
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
04–636
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
SRI   LANKA   RAILW AY   DEPARTMENT
The Examination for Recruitment for the Post of Costing
Officer (Transportation) in the Department of Railways
APPLICATIONS are invited to fill three (03) vacancies in the posts
of Costing Officer (Transportation) in the Department of Railway.
The closing date is 26.05.2011. All the applications should be sent
under registered cover addressed to the General Manager in Railways,
Post Box 355, Colombo 10 to reach him on or before 06.05.2011.
Delivered by hand will not be entertained.
It is specially attended about the following fact.
This examination will be held by the Department of Examination
and it is held only in the examination centres in Colombo.
(a) Applications of the officers who are already in Government/
Corporations/Local Government services should be
forwarded through the respective Heads of Departments/
Institutions. The Head of Department should certify that
the particulars, furnished in the application are true and he
can be released from the service.
(b) The cover should be marked “The application for
recruitment for the post of Cost Officer in Transport” on
the top left hand corner. The application should be accurated
in every respect.
(c) Applications which do not conform to the gazette
notification and delayed in the post will be rejected without
prior notice. Allegations that any application has been lost
or delayed in the post will not be considered.
(d) Applicants must fulfill qualifications on the closing date.
01. Mode of application.– The application form should be prepared
to the specimen form of application shown below in the gazette
notification on paper A-4 using both sides by the candidate himself.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
703
(i) It should be prepared that cages 01-10 appear on the First
side, the cages 11-15 appear in the Second side and the
others in the Third side using his own handwriting clearly.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and
that are incomplete in every aspect shall be rejected without
prior notice. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application with candidates.).
(ii) It is essential to mention the name of the examination in
English language as well, in applications, prepared in both
Sinhala and Tamil Media.
(iii) The original of any certificate shouldn’t be attached to the
application. It is not liable about the responsibility of such
documents.
(iv) Admission cards to the examination will be issued to
candidates who are considered as fully qualified according
to the furnished particulars in the application as mentioned
in the examination notification for the recruitment (including
the applicants who are not revealed as unqualified in the
preliminary test).
(v) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
mean that he has fulfilled the required qualifications for
promotion.
(vi) It will be accepted only the National Identity Card, issued
by the Department of Registration of Persons or a valid
Passport to prove the identity at the examination hall.
(vii) He/she is subjected to a punishment, imposed by the
Commissioner of Examinations for breach of rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner of Examinations.
(viii) Though a candidate is qualified at the examination, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled during or before the
interview if it is found that he/she has not fulfilled the
required basic qualifications for promotion.
02. Salary Scale.– Rs. 17,680 - 10 x 320 - 11 x 365 - 15 x 450 -
Rs. 31,645 (per month) (Rs. 21,245 - 12th Step of MN-6 as per the
P. A. C. 6/2006(IV).
(The Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03
years from the date of appointment (before achieving to the 4th Step
of salary). Reach to 45 years of age is not a cause to be released from
the Efficiency Bar Examination).
03. Age Limit :
(a) Age should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45
years on the closing date of applications.
(b) The upper age limit is not applicable to those who are
already in Government Service but it should not be more
than 50 years of age.
04. Qualifications :
(i) For external candidates :
(a) Should have obtained a special degree (first or second
class) with Commerce, Management, Economics,
Statistics. (It should be included the subject Costing)
in a recognized university ; or
(b) Should have passed the final test in Chartered
Management Accountancy Institute (United
Kingdom) or Chartered Accountancy Institute in Sri
Lanka ; or
(c) Should have passed I and II parts of the examination
in Chartered Management Accountancy Institute
(United Kingdom) or Inter Medium Test in Chartered
Accountancy Institute, Sri Lanka or should have the
Certificate of Accountancy in Sri Lanka Technical
College ; or
(d) Should have a degree in a recognized University with
one of the subjects from Commerce, Management,
Economics, Statistics with experience of 2 years about
Costing Accountancy.
(ii) For candidates who are already in Department of
Railways :–
(a) (i) Should bear a post of Depot Master, Inquiry
Officer, Inspector (Transportation) ; or
(ii) Should be an officer with a service period of 10
years in a class I post of Station Master, Railway
Guard, Railway Clerk in the Department of
Railways and be an officer with a satisfactory
service period of nearly 05 years ; or
(b) Should be a person with a degree in a recognized
University including one of the subjects from
Commerce, Management, Economics, Statistics and
satisfactory service period of 05 years in the
Department of Railways.
05. Method of Recruitment :
(a) Candidates who have scored 60% or above for each
subject at the competitive examination are called for the
interview by the Board of Interview appointed by the
Secretary of Transport and 3 candidates will be selected
in order of merit from these who scored the highest
aggregate of marks according to the number of vacancies
existing.
It will not be offered marks at the interview.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
704
(b) Scheme of examination and syllabus :
(i) General Intelligence Duration 1 hour 100 marks
(ii) General Paper Duration 2 hours 100 marks
(iii) Costing and Statistics Duration 3 hours 100 marks
It should be scored 60% or above for each paper to be qualified.
Note.– It will not be permitted to change the language medium
of the examination, indicated in the application.
06. Syllabus :
1. General Intelligence :
To test the candidate’s language abilities, judgmental
abilities, numerical abilities, logical situations and capacity
of decision making.
2. General Paper :
To test the candidate’s knowledge about Economy in Sri
Lanka Economic Development, contribution of transport
for economic development and its importance, the
knowledge about the local and international
transportation.
3. Costing and Statistics :
To test the candidate’s knowledge about using methods
of cost in taking management decisions, identification of
materials, labour and overhead cost, analysis, using cost
of variance, fixed cost, direct and indirect cost, long-term
and short term cost, economic cost and theories of cost,
providing statistical details for management decisions,
providing numerical details for financial analysis, data
collection, analysis and the knowledge of the candidate
about the statistical forecast.
07. Conditions of Service.– The post is permanent and pensionable
and contribution should be made to the Widow’s and Orphan’s
Pension Fund. It is relevant the provisions from 10-12 in the Chapter
II in the Establishment Code. The selected candidates are liable to
subject the Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Departmental
Orders and regulations.
08. Examination Fee.– The fee of Rs. 500 is non-refundable. It
can be paid to a convenient post office and should be sent the
application attaching the money order written in favour of General
Manager in Railways, Paying Office, Maradana. It will not be accepted
the photocopies except the original copy. (It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt of the money order.).
09. Attestation of the Candidate’s signature.– The candidate’s
signature in the application form should have been attested by a
principal of a Governmet school or a Justice of Peace, Commissioner
of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer
in Armed Forces or an officer holding a gazetted post in the police
service or an officer holding a permanent post in government or
Local Government Service whose monthly initial consolidated salary
is not less than Rs. 19,755 as per P. A. C. 6/2006.
10. Admission Card.– A notice will be published in the Newspaper
by the department of examination as soon as Admission Cards are
issued to applicants. If the Admission Card is not received even after
2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at
the time of calling the Department of Examination i. e. a certified
photocopy of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a Fax Number to which the
Admission Cards should be sent.
11. Final decision. – If it is not a particular mentioned in the
notification of examination, the final decision about it will be taken
by the Secretary of the Ministry of Transport.
D
AMMIKA PERERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Transport.
Ministry of Transport,
D. R. Wijewardana Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
25th February, 2011.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
For office use only
E
XAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF
COSTING OFFICER (TRANSPORTATION) IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
RAILWAY - SRI LANKA - 2010(2011)
01. Language medium of examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4        (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
02. Name with initials :
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
(ii) In English (In block letters) :––––––––––.
(Eg. : PERERA R. M.)
03. Names denoted by initials :
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
(ii) In English (In block letters) :––––––––––.
04. Permanent residential address :
(i) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
(ii) In English (In block letters) :––––––––––.
(Admission cards will be posted to this address)
05. Sex :
Female Male
(Please mark the indicator (x) in the box)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2011
705
06. National Identity Card No. :
07. Residence :
(i) Grama Niladhari Division and No. :––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretariat and No. :––––––––––.
(iii) District :––––––––––.
08. Ethnicity : (Please indicate the relevant number in the box)
Sinhala 1 Muslim 4
Sri Lankan Tamil 2 Burgher 5
Indian Tamil 3 Maley 6
09. Citizenship : (Please indicate the relevant number in the box)
By descent - 1
By registration - 2
10. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :                         Month :     Date :
(ii) Age on 26.05.2011 :
Years :                      Months :     Days :
11. Educational qualifications and Professional qualifications :
Mention all the details i. e. date, class, language medium, names
of the institutions of the degrees and professional qualifications
that you obtained. (Photocopies of educational certificates and
the photocopies of certificates of experiences should be attached
to the application and must not send the original copies in any
case.) :––––––––––.
12. Other qualifications :––––––––––.
13. For candidates who are already in Government Service :
(i) Date of first appointment and post :––––––––––.
(ii) Present post and date of appointment :––––––––––.
(iii) Department, work at present and place :––––––––––.
(iv) Are/Aren’t there any disciplinary charges :–––––––––.
(v) Have you received increments continuously within last
05 years :––––––––––.
14. Were you charged in a Court of Law for a criminal offence ? If so,
quote full details :
Ye s N o
15. Declaration of the applicant :
(a) I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate. I am also aware
that if any particulars contained here are found to be
false/or incorrect, my application is liable to be rejected
and the candidature will be cancelled without any
compensation.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained in the
above (a) are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
dismissal without any compensation if the inaccuracy is
detected after the appointment.
(c) The receipt bearing the No. ............... which was received
by payment of Rs. 500 to the post office ............... has
been attached herewith.
Paste the money order here in a detachable manner.
Keep a photocopy of the money order.
(d) I agree to follow the conditions of this examination.
(e) I am liable to follow the rules and regulations of the
Commissioner of Examinations in conducting the
examination too.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :––––––––––.
16. Attestation of Signature :
I personally know Mr. ................ who produces this application
with the attachment of the money order of Rs. 500. I attest that he
put his signature on ................. before me.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of the Attestor :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Please put the official frank)
17. Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution :
(Only for the applicants who are already in Government/Local
Government services) :
I certify that Mr. ................ working in this department as a
.............. from ............... to ............... and his work, attendance and
conduct are satisfactory/not satisfactory. He has paid the examination
fee and pasted the money order correctly. He can be/cannot be released
from the service if he has been selected for the post of Costing
Officer.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department/
Institution.
Date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Please put the official frank)
04–690