

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1763
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1754
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"980 – 2016 wf.daia;= ui 12 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'08'12
No. 1,980 –  fRiday ,  august 12, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd  september, 2016 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th  august, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 government Printer (Acting).
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1751
Note.— fiscal Management (Responsibility) (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 27, 2016.
N. B.— Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 1979 of 05.08.2016 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1752
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1753
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1754
Posts – Vacant
mINISTRy Of IRRIGATION AND WATER RESOuRCES mANAGEmENT
Irrigation Department 
REcRuitMENt to thE Posts of thaKshaNa sahayaKa (iRRigatioN) aNd thaKshaNa 
sahayaKa (MEchaNicaL) oN LiMitEd Basis - 2016
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified officers of Public Service to fill the following vacancies in the service 
category of Management assistant technical segment 03 in the irrigation department. 
 1.1 Posts expected to be recruited : 
  Serial Designation Number of  Grade to be 
  No.  Vacancies recruited
  1 thakshana sahayaka  (irrigation) 182 grade iii
  2 thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical) 19 grade iii
 1.2 Nature of the duties : 
 Serial No. Designation Assigned duties
  1 t hakshana sahayaka (irrigation) following duties/tasks assigned under the supervision  
   of an engineering assistant :
     * to supervise the work of new constructions,  
     improvements and repairs in the field,
     * to perform the responsibilities of such work 
      according to the approved standards of 
      irrigation department,
     * to supervise operational and maintenance 
      work of projects like irrigation, lift irrigation 
      and prevention of floods in the relevant field, 
     * to be vigilant and to protect the irrigation of 
      Irrigation Department, lift irrigation, flood 
      prevention and salt water prevention projects,  
     buildings, roads and their reservations. 
  2 thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical)  * to take over machines and vehicles brought to 
      the mechanical workshops for repairs. 
     * to supervise the duties of the junior employees 
      attached to the mechanical section. 
2.0 Method of Recruitment : 
 2.1 Qualified applicants will be selected by subjecting them to a structured interview. 
 2.2 Structured interview.- Qualified persons will be selected according to the rank of marks of those who have 
passed structured interview which is held to examine the applicants experience in the field, their educational 
and other qualifications. 
    Topics for giving marks on Maximum Marks Pass Marks
    examination 
 Experience, Education and Other Qualifications 100 40

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1755
 2.3 Board of structured interview is appointed by the 
director general of irrigation. 
3.0 Salary Scale.- according to the schedule i of the 
Public administration circular No. 03/2016, the monthly 
salary scale attached to the post is Rs. 29,840 -10x300 
-11x350 - 10x560 - 10x660 - Rs. 48,890 (Mt1-2016). 
according to the schedule ii of the said circular for the 
period from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016 a consolidated 
salary of Rs. 17,508 and adjustment allowance of Rs. 9,831 
is applicable. 
4.0 Nature of posts.- Permanent and pensionable. 
5.0 Age limit.- Not less than 18 years on the closing 
date of application and the maximum age limit will not be 
applicable. 
6.0 Required Qualifications :
 6.1 Educational Qualifications.- thakshana 
sahayaka (irrigation) thakshana sahayaka 
(Mechanical).
  Passing the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level) Examination in six (06) 
subjects including Language or Literature, 
Mathematics and science in not more than two 
sittings.
 6.2 experience :
  thakshana sahayaka (irrigation) - should have 
an experience of at least 10 years in one of the 
following permanent pensionable primary semi 
technical service category falling under salary 
code No. PL 2-2006a  (Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 PL 2-2016 salary code) in 
the irrigation department and have completed 5 
years active and satisfactory service period :-
 1. operator,
 2. t ractor operator,
 3. Maintenance and operational Labourer,
 4. Water pump operator,
 5. air conditioner Repairer,
 6. Mason,
 7. carpenter,
 8. Plumber,
 9. Equipment technician,
 10. Equipment Repairer,
 11. hydrology Meter assistant,
 12. circuit Bungalow Keeper,
 13. store Keeper,
 14. Plan Printer,
 15. Plan Keeper,
 16. chronometer repairer 
or
should be or an officer who has obtained a permanent 
appointment in Public service with three (03) years 
continues active and satisfactory service completing the 
vocational qualifications having obtained the relevant 
certificate (NCT-Civil) for passing the three year part 
time National Technical Certificate (Civil) Course from a 
technical college recognized by tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission or having obtained a similar 
certificate. 
thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical).– should have an 
experience of at least 10 years in one of the following 
permanent and pensionable primary semi technical services 
category following under salary code No. PL 2-2006a  
(Public administration circular No. 03/2016 salary code) 
in the irrigation department and have completed 5 years 
active and satisfactory service period :-
 1. technician,
 2. Electrician,
 3. Welder,
 4. Painter,
 5. fitter,
 6. Lathe Machine operator,
 7. Blacksmith,
 8. Mechanist,
 9. tinsmith,
 10.  fitter,
 11.  Minor foreman.
should be or an officer who has obtained a permanent 
appointment in Public service with three (03) years 
continues active and satisfactory service completing the 
V ocational Qualifications having obtained the relevant 
certificate (NCT-Mechanical) for passing the three year 
Part Time National Technical Certificate (Mechanical) 
course from a technical college recognized by tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission or having obtained 
a similar certificate issued by an institute recognized by 
tertiary and V ocational Education commission. 
 6.3 Physical Qualifications.- Every applicant should 
be sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve 
in any part of sri Lanka and to discharge the 
duties of the post. 
 6.4 Other Qualifications :
 (i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka, 
 (ii) appointment having been confirmed,
 (iii) should be of excellent moral character, 
 (iv) Qualifications required for appearing 
in the structured interview are accepted 
only if the applicant has completed all the 
relevant qualifications and the specified 
age limit by the date mentioned in the 
notification for calling the applications. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1756
7.0 if any information mentioned in the application 
sent by you is found to be false or incorrect prior to the 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such 
information is revealed after the recruitment, action will 
be taken to dismiss you from service, subject to relevant 
actions. 
8.0 Preparation and Submission of the application : 
 8.1 the application should be prepared by the 
candidate themselves on paper sized 21x29cm 
(a4) using both sides. topics from 1.0-7.0 
should appear on the first page, from 8.0-11.0 
on the second and from 12.0-16.0 on the third 
page. 
 8.2 all applicants should submit their applications 
through their heads of departments. 
 8.3 applications that do not comply with the 
specimen application and are not completed in 
every aspect will be rejected without notice. 
 8.4 Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
complains regarding applications lost in the post 
will not be considered. 
 8.5 according to the post you are applying for, the 
words "Recruitment for the post of thakshana 
sahayaka (irrigation) or Recruitment for the 
Post of thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical)" 
shall be clearly mentioned on the top left 
corner of the envelope. 
 8.6 Final decision on filling vacancies, not filling 
vacancies or filling some of the vacancies and 
all other particulars is rested with the director 
general of irrigation. 
9.0 Sending the application .- completed application 
form should be sent by registered post to reach the 
following address on or before 29th august, 2016. 
director general of irrigation, 
irrigation department, 
No. 230, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, 
colombo 07.
 Eng. s. s. L. 
Weerasinghe, 
 director general of irrigation. 
irrigation department, 
colombo 07,
on the date 27th of July, 2016. 
specimen application 
ministry of irrigation and Water resources 
management 
IRRIGATIoN DeP ARTMeNT 
Recruitment to the Post of Thakshana Sahayaka 
(Irrigation/Mechanical) on Limited Basis - 2016
(For office use only)
1.0 Post applied for ............................
2.0 Name with initials (initials at the end) (Mr./Mrs./Miss) 
:–––––––––––.
 in sinhala/t amil :–––––––––––.
 in English (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 (eg. : PERERa  a. B. c.)
  2.1 Name in full :
   in sinhala/t amil :–––––––––––.
   English (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.0 National identity card No. : 
4.0 sex :
 Male   - M
 female - f
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
5.0 Official Address (legibly) :
 in sinhala/t amil  :–––––––––––.
 in English block capitals  :–––––––––––.
  5.1 Personal address :
   in sinhala/t amil  :–––––––––––.
   in English block capitals  :–––––––––––.
6.0 telephone No. : 
 fixed  :–––––––––––.
 Mobile  :–––––––––––.
7.0 Residence :
  7.1 district  :–––––––––––.
  7.2 divisional secretariat division  :–––––––––––.
8.0 civil status :
 unmarried  - 1
 Married - 2

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1757
9.0 date of Birth : 
 date : Month : y ear :
 9.1 age as at closing date (29.08.2016) of 
application  :–––––––––––.
  y ears : Months : days :
10.0  Post :
  10.1 current Post  :–––––––––––.
  10.2 date appointed for the permanent post  :––––––.
11.0 Educational Qualifications : 
  11.1 Particulars of g. c. E. (ordinary Level) 
examination :
  first attempt : 
  (i) year and the month of the examination :––––––.
   admission No.  :–––––––––––.
   Results : 
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 . 6.
2 . 7.
3.  8.
4.  9.
5.  10.
 second attempt : 
  (ii) year and the month of the examination :––––––.
   admission No.  :–––––––––––.
   Results : 
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 . 6.
2 . 7.
3.  8.
4.  9.
5.  10.
12.0 V ocational Qualifications :
 Studied course Institute Period Certificate number
     and valid date
13.0 Experience :–––––––––––.
14.0 Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
15.0 declaration of the applicant :
i, ...................................... hereby certify that all the 
particulars given here are three and correct and also 
certify that i have not been expelled from public service 
or not compelled to retire on inefficiency as sympathetic 
alternative or treated as giving vacated the post. i am aware 
that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false 
or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection 
and dismissed from service without any compensation if 
it is found after selection. further i agree to serve at work 
sites in the field of irrigation in any part of Sri Lanka if I am 
appointed to this post. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
16.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institute :
i, hereby certify that the work behavior of Mr./Mrs./
Miss ............................... who is serving in the post of 
......................... in this Ministry/department/institute is 
satisfactory, that there are no disciplinary actions against 
him/her and have not thought about taking such action. he/
she can/cannot be released from the service if he/she is 
selected for this post. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the head department
 Institute and the Official Seal. 
date :–––––––––––.
08–297/1
–––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  NA V AL  fORCE
Vacancies
VacaNciEs exist in the sri Lanka Regular Naval force 
for Officer Cadets.
 
2. applications are invited from male candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below:-
 (a) to follow degree programmes offered by the 
general sir John Kotelawala defence university 
and be enlisted in the Executive, Provost, 
Logistics and Patrolman branches of the sri 
Lanka Navy.
a minimum of six passes at the gcE (o/L) Examination 
with credit passes in English language and Mathematics in 
two sittings; should have obtained 30 marks for the general 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1758
test at the gcE (a/L) Examination; should have obtained 
minimum entry qualification for university admission at 
the GCE (A/L) Examination, (A certified copy of the result 
sheet issued by the commissioner general of Examinations 
should be attached) and applicants should have passed 03 
subjects, at the gcE (a/L)Examination in one sitting  of 
the following streams:-
(1) Executive branch - Physical or Biological 
(2) Provost/ Patrolman branch - science, commerce,  
  t echnical or arts
(3) Logistics branch -  commerce
 (b) t o follow degree programmes in Marine 
Engineering or Electrical Engineering and be 
enlisted in the Engineering branch or the Electrical 
Engineering branch, respectively, of the sri Lanka 
Navy.
  should have passed combined Mathematics, 
Physics and chemistry at the gcE (a/L) 
Examination in one sitting; should have obtained 
30 marks for the general test at the gcE (a/L) 
Examination; should have passed Mathematics 
and English with credit passes at the gcE (o/L) 
Examination in not more than two sittings; should 
have obtained minimum entry qualification 
for  university admission at the gcE (a/L) 
Examination (A certified copy of the result 
sheet issued by the commissioner general of 
Examinations should be attached)
3. other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the sri 
Lanka Regular Naval force :
(a)  Nationality : -  Must be a citizen of sri Lanka.
(b)  age  :-  Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years as at  31st 
august 2016                   
(c)  height : -  168 cm and above (171 cm and 
above for Provost Branch)
(d) Weight : -  52kg or above
(e)  chest : -  81cm (minimum)
(f)  color Vision : -  std ii 
(g) Visual acuity : -  Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles and lenses)
(h) civil status : -  candidates must be unmarried. 
No Officer Cadet will be   
permitted to get married whilst 
under training and  for a further 
period of one (1) year from the 
date of  commissioning.
4. due consideration will be given to 
outstanding achievements in the field of sports. 
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirements of Para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will 
be measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight 
are below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification 
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skill or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the commander of the 
sri Lanka Navy be considered even though he may not 
have the requisite height provided he possess the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :-
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the sri 
Lanka Navy as an Officer Cadet on a regular 
engagement in the same manner as for other 
Ranks and will undergo a Basic training 
course. on successful completion of training, 
the duration of which will  depend on the 
branch, the status allocated on his enlistment 
as an other Ranks will lapse and will receive a 
permanent commission in the rank of acting 
sub Lieutenant 
 (b) Officer Cadets will be required to undergo 
training at a place in sri Lanka or abroad  
as decided by the commander of the Navy in 
consultation with the Ministry of defence.
 (c) During the period of training as Officer 
cadets and thereafter, personnel will be  
subject to Naval Law.
 (d) Every Officer Cadet will be provided all items 
of uniforms, equipment and medical  facilities.
 (e) during the period of training, an Officer Cadet 
will be provided with food and accommodation 
by the sri Lanka Navy.
 (f) In the event an Officer Cadet voluntarily 
terminates his candidature for a commission 
during training, he will be required to refund to 
the Republic of sri Lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Republic of sri Lanka on 
account of such officer Cadet.
 (g)  If at any time during his course an Officer Cadet 
is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable 
for reasons of misconduct or due to causes 
within his control to qualify for a commission, 
he will be required to refund to the sri Lanka 
Navy all expenses incurred on his training and 
will be required to enter into a bond to this 
effect with the commander of the Navy acting 
on behalf of the government of sri Lanka.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1759
 (h)  candidates who possess the requirements 
as per Para 2 and 3 will be called for the 
Medical Examination, Physical Endurance 
Test and Officer Quality Test. Candidates who 
successfully complete these tests will be called 
for the preliminary interview and those who 
pass preliminary interview called for the final 
interview. the required number of candidates 
per branch will be selected according to merit at 
these interviews and tests.
 (i)  A married Officer may be provided with a 
married quarter if available. Recovery of rental 
will be as applicable to public servants.
 (j)  All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
 (k)  All Officers are governed by Naval Law.
7. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances:- 
 (a)  initial salary  - Rs. 32,380.00
 (b)  cost of living  - Rs. 7,800.00
 (c)  uniform cleaning - Rs. 255.00
    allowance
 (d)  hardline allowance - Entitled after basic  
  (operational areas)   training
 (e)  hardline allowance -  Entitled after basic 
  (Non-operational areas)   training
 (f) other allowances - special allowance  
  Rs. 1,000 
   - special additional  
  allowance 
   - Rs. 3,000
NOTE.– The initial salary of an Officer Cadets is                       
Rs. 32,380.00 w.e.f. 01.01.2020 and it will be revised 
w.e.f. 01.01.2016 as follows.
 01.01.2016 - Rs. 18,984.00 -  adjustment   
    allowance Rs. 9,778.00
 01.01.2017 - Rs. 22,333.00 - adjustment allowance 
 01.01.2018 - Rs. 25,682.00 -adjustment allowance
     Rs. 3,080.00
 01.01.2019 - Rs. 29,031.00 -  NiL
 01.01.2020 - Rs. 32,380.00 -  NiL 
  (g)  Qualification pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
  (h)  three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for 
Officer, spouse and children).
 (i) an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in 
wardrooms to travel from the wardroom to their 
hometown once a month.
 (j)  free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (k)  free medical facilities (including families, if 
applicable).
 (l)  Rent allowances for married Officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter from 
Rs. 1,600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per month.
9. Instructions to Applicants:-
 (a) application should be submitted as per the 
specimen application to SENIOR STAff  
OffICER (RECRuITI NG), NA Vy  
hEADQuARTERS, AND P.O. bOX 593, 
COLOmbO under registered cover on or 
before 31
ST AuGuST 2016. the post applied 
should be indicated on the top left side of 
the envelope. Late application will not be 
entertained and application forms are not 
issued by the sri Lanka Navy. [for further 
information, please contact 0112215154 or 
visit www.navy.lk.]
 (b)  candidates who are in government service / 
corporations / Boards / civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through 
their heads of department /corporations / 
Boards / civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will 
be released if selected.
 (c)  candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon 
to do so:-
 (1)  Certificate of Registration of Birth 
(Certificate issued for the purpose of the 
education code will not be accepted);
 (2)  Certificates in support of the educational 
qualifications required for the branch 
applied for;
 (3) School leaving certificate;
 (4)  Grama Niladari certificate (Taken within 
six month to closing date);

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1760
 (5)  Certificates of trade / technical training 
and / or experience (if any) obtained 
from a recognized institution;
 (6) Two recent certificates of character. One 
of these should be from the Principal of 
the last school attended and the other 
from a responsible person who has the 
know of the applicant for more than two 
years or from the present employer (if 
employed) ;
 (7)  Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc.,
 (d)  applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e)  No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f)  the sri Lanka Navy will not be responsible for 
loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed 
with the application form.
10.  any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection. 
11. Selection Interviews etc.:- 
 (a)  Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above 
conditions. candidates so selected will be 
required to undergo tests as may be prescribed 
by the Commander of the Navy. The final 
selection will then be made after an interview 
of those selected candidates by a selection 
board appointed by the Ministry of defence.
 (b) Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical 
Endurance test 
exercise  Rounds Time
    (Minutes/ 
  Seconds) 
1600m run – 06-08 minutes
Push up 25 or more 02 minutes
sit up 25 or more 02 minutes
arm Bending 05 or more 02 minutes
standing Board Jump 242cm or more –
Rope climbing – –
shuttle Run – 11 seconds
 (c)  candidates  selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and 
date of such interviews. travelling or other 
expenses will not be paid in this respect.
 (d)  on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he is to produce his National 
identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons.
 (e)  candidates likely to be suitable for their 
final interviews will be required to present 
themselves before a sri Lanka Navy Medical 
Board.
 (f)  anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
 (g)  candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified. 
 Rc 
Wijegunaratne, WV , RWP & 
 Bar, RsP, VsV , usP, ndc, psn,
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval headquarters,
colombo.
aPPLicatioN foR officER cadEt iN thE 
sRi LaNKa NaVy
01.  Nationality:––––––––––.
 (state whether citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card)  :–––––.
03.  National identity card Number  :––––––––––.
04.  Permanent address  :––––––––––.
05.  Postal address  :––––––––––.
06.  date of Birth :–––––––,
07. age: 
 y ears :––––––– Months :–––––––– days :–––––––––.
 ( as 31st august ,2016) : 
08. height :–––––––, (cm) chest :–––––––, (cm) 
 Weight :–––––––, (Kg)  
09. Nearest Police station to permanent address :–––––––.
10. district :––––––––––.
11. Electorate :––––––––––.
12. gs division :––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1761
13. telephone Number :––––––––––.
14  civil status :––––––––––.
15. gender :––––––––––.
16.  schools attended :––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School or university qualifications 
obtained:
  Name of  Type of Year of  Subject passed
  School/ examination examination (Including
  University   grading)
   ordinary 
  Level :
  advanced 
  Level :
  other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving school/
university: - (if applicable)
 Name and Address Nature of  Period of service
 of employer employment From        To
19. Particulars of parents :-
 Full Name Place of occupation Present
   Birth  Address
father 
Mother
 
20.  Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
21. details of current achievements in sports (give details 
of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ 
years etc. and standards / levels achieved)  :––––––––.
22. other achievements of note at school / university or 
with outside organizations (give details with dates /
years etc.)  :––––––––––.
23. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or Boy scout organization  :–––––.
24. have you applied earlier to join the sri Lanka Navy or 
any of the armed services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications  :––––––––––.
25. have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details  :––––––––––.
26. if employed earlier in a government department or in 
the Public sector / Board / corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, universities, Joint stock 
companies controlled by the government etc.) reasons 
for termination of employment  :––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials:-
 Name  Designation Postal Address
28. declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honor that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the 
sri Lanka Navy published in the Gazette of the Republic 
of sri Lanka. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of  applicant.
 
date :––––––––––.
08–454
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  POLICE RESERVE
Police hospital
V acaNciEs foR Posts of MEdicaL officER
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Post of Medical 
Officers to fill the above said vacancies in the Police 
hospital, from citizens of sri Lanka. 
02. applications prepared in accordance with the 
specimen form given below should be sent by registered 
post to reach the "director/Recruitment, Recruitment 
division, No. 375, sri sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, 
colombo 06" on or before 09.09.2016 applications 
received thereafter will be rejected. the post, which you 
apply for, should be indicated on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. Preference will be given to those applicants 
who are in government service at present. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1762
03. Educational and Professional Qualifications : 
 (a) MBBs (sL) or equivalent medical degree 
and permanent and full registration by the sri 
Lanka Medical council. 
 (b) Preference will be given to the medical officers, 
who have undergone special professional 
training and/or experience in the fields relevant 
to the present requirements of the Police 
hospital. 
04. Salary and other allowances and facilities : 
 (a) the selected applicants will be entitled to 
draw the salary and due increments with all 
allowances paid by the health department. 
in addition he or she will receive some of the 
allowances due to the active service officers of 
the Police Reserve. 
 (b) Entitled to get the official vehicle with driver 
depending on the exigencies of service. 
05. Terms of employment : 
 (a) the selected applicants will be enlisted 
and in active service as Reserve assistant 
superintendent of Police/Reserve Women 
assistant superintendent of Police, in 
accordance with the rules and regulations of 
the sri Lanka Reserve Police. 
 (b) the selected applicants will continue to 
maintain his or her service seniority in the 
health department. 
 (c) the selected applicants should be subject to 
the period of one year probation period. and 
he/she will be deployed in active service for a 
period of four years. 
06. Service Conditions.- conditions outside the common 
conditions laid down in the Public service commission 
Procedure. 
 (a) the selected applicants will be required to 
comply with any rules already made or may 
hereafter be made to give effect to the Official 
Language policy of the government. 
 (b) selected applicants should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with Police code of conduct as per the 
constitution of democratic socialist Republic 
of sri Lanka and together with inspector 
general of Police circular No. 1693/2003 and 
1804/2004.
 (c) all the applicants are liable to common 
conditions of Public service commission 
procedures, provisions of Establishment code 
mentioned in V ol. i and ii and other circulars 
and conditions, orders of Police service,                  
i. g. P. circulars P. a. circulars and fR 
Regulations and provisions thereof. 
 (d) in the case of all appointments the conditions 
laid down in procedures published in the 
extraordinary Gazette No. 1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009 of the Public service commission 
and Establishment code provision will apply.
07. general conditions published in this Gazette 
section 1, para (ii a) is relevant to the appointments of the 
government service. 
08. selected applicants should pass a Medical 
Examination prior to appointment. those who are found 
unsuitable for the Police service will be rejected.
09. the applicants should attach copies of the following 
documents to their applications (originals should not be 
attached).
 (a) Birth Certificate,
 (b) Certificates confirming the Educational 
Qualifications,
 (c) Professional Certificates,
 (d) Certificates regarding the professional 
experience.
10. applicants should prepare their applications, on 
papers 11" x 8" in size and duly perfected applications 
should be posted together with copies of the certificates 
called for, to the address given in paragraph 2 above. 
under no circumstance should the applications be handed 
over personally to any officer.
Note:-  all applications, which do not conform to 
the requirements stipulated in this notification, 
will be rejected and such applicants will not be 
notified. Travelling expenses will not be paid to 
applicants who are summoned to appear for tests 
and interviews in respect of the above.
Inspector General of Police.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1763
09.  Educational Qualifications (Details with Dates) :
  (i) Professional Qualifications :––––––––.
  (ii) Post graduate :––––––––.
10. Posts held :
 Post Working Place Period of Service
 (i) .................. ......................... .......................
 (ii) .................. ......................... .......................
 (iii) .................. ......................... .......................
 (iv) .................. ......................... .......................
 (v) .................. ......................... .......................
11. special Qualifications and Experience :––––––––.
12. Any other qualifications related to this post :––––––––.
i certify that the particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and accurate. i am also aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect, my service in the Police service in the event of 
my being appointed is liable to be terminated with out any 
compensation.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of applicant.
date :––––––––.
08–509
specimen application form
01. Post applied for :–––––––––––.
02.  applicant’s name with initials :–––––––––––.
  (i) surname :–––––––––––.
  (ii) other  names :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 Police station belongs to the above address :––––––––.
04.  gender  (Male / female) :–––––––––––.
05.   date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  age as at (09.09.2016) :
 y ears :––––––––. Months :––––––––. days :–––––––.
06.  Marital status : Married/unmarried/Widowed :
  (i) spouse’s occupation :–––––––––––.
  (ii) spouse’s Place of occupation :–––––––––––.
07. Present Employment  :
  (i) Post held at present :–––––––––––.
  (ii) grade of the present post :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Present working place :–––––––––––.
08. dates of appointments :-
  (i) date of appointed of the present post :–––––––.
  (ii) date of appointed for the grade ii :––––––––.
  (iii) date of 1st appointment :––––––––.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of fOREIGN AffAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for filling 
vacancies in the home based Personal Assistants’ 
Posts in Sri Lanka missions/Posts 
Abroad – 2015(2016)
aPPLicatioNs are hereby invited for selection of 
home Based Personal assistants who are competent in 
English Stenography and computer applications, for filling 
vacancies in sri Lanka Missions abroad, from Public 
Management assistants’ service, Provincial Public service 
and Local government service, state corporations/state 
Banks and semi government services such as other 
statutory Boards.
02. eligibility:-
 (a) should be a sri Lanka citizen and if the 
applicant is married, the spouse should also be 
a sri Lanka citizen.
 (b) Permanent officers from the Public Management 
assistants’ service, Provincial Public service 
and the Local government service, state 
corporations/state Banks and semi government 
services such as other statutory Boards, who are 
not more than 57 years of age on the closing date 
of applications having completed minimum of 
05 years permanent and continuous service and 
possessing competence in English stenography 
and computer applications.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1764
Note: (i) those who are currently serving in sri 
Lanka Missions abroad are not eligible 
to apply.
 (ii) those who have served in sri Lanka 
Missions earlier and returned to sri 
Lanka may sit for the exam. however, 
appointment will be given on priority 
basis to those who have spent at least 12 
months after returning to sri Lanka on 
completion of their last posting.
 (iii) those who are serving on contract 
basis,casual basis or temporary basis in 
the services mentioned under 02 (b) are 
not eligible to apply. 
03. Method of Selection :-
 3.1 applicants will be required to sit for a test in 
English stenography. the test will be held in 
colombo in the English medium only. the 
speed in stenography required for the test will 
be 60 w.p.m. 100 marks will be allocated for 
this English stenography test. those who have 
secured 40% or more at this test will be called 
upon to an interview. however, if there is an 
insufficient number of qualified applicants with 
the above mark level at the written examination, 
the secretary/foreign affairs reserves the right 
to take the final decision on level of the cut-off 
mark at which the candidates are called upon 
for the interview.
 3.2 Persons selected on merit from the written 
examination will be called for an interview. 
during the interview, the eligibility of 
candidates and their supportive documents will 
be verified.The interview will be conducted by 
a board appointed by the secretary, Ministry of 
ForeignAffairs. The placement will be finalized 
at the discretion of the secretary, Ministry of 
foreign affairs.
 3.3 the decision of the commissioner general 
of Examinations will be final with regard to 
conducting the examination and issuing results.
 3.4 the result sheet prepared on the basis of merit 
order of the applicants who obtained marks not 
less than 40% in the written examination will 
be sent to the Ministry of foreign affairs by the 
commissioner general of Examinations.
  in addition to that, examination results will 
be personally conveyed to all the applicants          
who appeared for the examination or the 
same will be published in the website of the 
department of Examinations, sri Lanka: www.
results.exams.gov.lk.
 3.5 When a request is made to release successful 
candidates to be attached to the Ministry of 
foreign affairs, the candidates should assume 
duties in the Ministry of foreign affairs on 
the due date. In the event of an officer failing 
to do so, the secretary/foreign affairs should 
be informed to that effect in writing and those 
who fail to report for the duty in the Ministry 
of foreign affairs within four weeks from the 
due date may be considered disqualified for 
the appointment and action will be taken at the 
discretion of the secretary. further, the selected 
candidates should inform the secretary to the 
Ministry of foreign affairs within two weeks 
from the date of issuing letters of appointment 
whether the appointment is accepted or not. in 
case of a failure to do so, action will be taken to 
consider him/her as an applicant who does not 
accept the appointment.
04. terms of engagement:-
 4.1 (a) An officer selected will be required to serve 
initially in colombo at the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs for a specified period prior 
to being posted to a sri Lanka Mission 
abroad. if his/her work and conduct 
during this initial period of service at the 
Ministry of foreign affairs are found to be 
unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to 
be cancelled. the period of service in the 
Ministry can be changed according to the 
requirements of the Ministry.
  (b) Posting will be decided on the basis of 
requirements of respective Missions and 
the officer’s suitability and competence 
(in foreign language etc.) and deciding on 
such postings, there is no obligation, on the 
part of the Ministry to consider the officer’s 
personal needs and grievances (children’s 
education etc.). further the Ministry is 
not bound to fill the vacancies purely in 
accordance with the order of merit of the 
selection tests.
 4.2 An officer selected on being posted to a Sri 
Lanka Mission abroad is normally required 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1765
to serve abroad for a period of three years in 
accordance with the terms and conditions as 
stipulated by the secretary, Ministry of foreign 
affairs and to enter into an agreement to the 
effect.this period may be extended on the 
exigency of the service.
 4.3 Officers in Government Service (Public 
Management assistants’ service/Provincial 
Public service /Local government service) if 
selected, will continue to be paid on the present 
salary scales. Others will be paid a fixed salary 
of Rs. 15,610/- per month. in addition, they 
will be paid an overseas allowance that is 
applicable, in accordance with existing rules 
and regulations while they are serving in sri 
Lanka Missions abroad.
 4.4 When a selected officer is posted to a Sri Lanka 
Mission abroad, the government will meet the 
cost of air passage to the country of posting 
and back, accommodation there and other 
allowances as determined by the secretary, 
Ministry of foreign affairs during his/her 
service abroad, only in respect of the officer, 
his/her spouse and two “eligible children”. (for 
the purpose of this clause “eligible children” 
mean unmarried and dependent children under 
21 years of age).
05. Method of Application :-
 5.1 Printed application forms will not be issued. 
application form should be prepared in an a-4 
size paper as per the  specimen appended to 
this notification, containing items from 01-09 
on the first page, 10-19 on the second page and 
the rest on the third page and should be filled in 
applicant’s own hand writing.
  When the application form is prepared in 
sinhala or tamil languages, the name of the 
examination should be mentioned in the English 
language as well, in addition to the names in 
sinhala or tamil.
Note.– applicants from Public service/
Provincial Public service /Local   
government service should use the 
specimen form No. 1 and applicants from 
other services should use the specimen 
form No. 2
  applications which are not in conformity with 
the specimen and those are not providing the 
required details will be rejected without any 
notice.therefore, applicants are advised to keep 
a photocopy of the application.
  applications should be forwarded through 
the respective heads of department. Every 
application should carry an endorsement from 
the head of department as  to the suitability 
of the  applicant for service overseas, that the 
applicant, if selected, can be released  from 
his/her present post immediately and that the 
particulars given in the application are correct.
 5.2 the applications should be forwarded by 
registered post to reach the commissioner 
general of Examinations, organization and 
foreign Examination Branch, department of 
Examinations, Post Box 1503, colombo, on 
or before 13
th september, 2016 and should be 
marked “Examination for selection of home 
Based Personal Assistants to fill vacancies in 
sri Lanka Missions abroad” on the top left-
hand corner of the envelope. English letter 
“P” should be clearly indicated within a cage 
(2cmx2cm) on the top of the left side of the 
envelope. No application received after the 
closing date will be accepted.
  this examination will be conducted during the 
month of November 2016 in colombo.
06. examination Fees.- Examination fee is Rs. 500/-.  
the receipt obtained for payment of the fee in the name 
of the applicant at Post-Office/Sub-Post Office in the 
island to the credit of Revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
Commissioner General of Examinations should be firmly 
affirmed to the application by its margin at the place 
provided in the application. details of the receipt such as 
number, the Post-Office/Sub-Post-Office where money 
is paid, date and the amount paid, should be indicated 
in the relevant space.  Money orders or stamps will not 
be accepted for payment of examination fees. under no 
circumstances, will the examination fees be refunded.
applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the payment 
receipt.   
07. applications which are not completed in all respects 
are liable to be rejected. No complaints that an application 
has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1766
08. application s will not be acknowledged. Eligible 
applicants whose applications have been accepted will 
be summoned for the written examination, which will be 
conducted by the commissioner-general of Examinations. 
As soon as the Admission Cards are issued, a notification 
to that effect will be published in the newspapers by 
the department of Examinations.  as instructed in the 
notification, the Department of Examinations should be 
informed in case the admission cards of any candidate is 
not received within 2 or 3 days after the appearance of 
the paper notification. Such applicants should inform the 
department of Examinations about the non receipt of the 
admission card with certified photocopies of the application 
form, the receipt issued on payment of examination fees and 
the receipt issued on sending the application by Registered 
post. (in case of an appeal from out station, a fax Number 
should be indicated in order to send the admission card).
according to the instructions given in the admission 
Card, you should get your signature attested.  On the first 
day of the examination itself, admission card with the 
signature attested should be submitted to your supervisor 
of the Examination hall. 
09. Either a National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons or  valid passport 
will only be accepted to prove identity of a candidate to 
a supervisor at examinations conducted by the sri Lanka 
Examinations department.
10. issuance of admission card to candidate shall not 
be in any way treated as that candidate had satisfied all the 
qualifications for the examination.
11. the designation and the work place of the applicant 
at the time of the application is made shall be relevant to 
all matters with regard to the examination and any request 
for change thereto after forwarding the application will not 
be considered.   
12. candidates will be subject to rules and regulations 
related to examination procedures imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations.  further, a 
candidate who violates such rules shall be subjected to any 
penalty imposed on him/her by the commissioner general 
of Examinations.
13.  in case of any divergence in the text of this 
notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
14.  the decision of the secretary/ foreign affairs will 
be the final regarding filling of all the vacancies or a part 
thereof or not filling any of the existing vacancies out of 
the qualified candidates of this examination. 
     
 
chithranganee WagisWara,
 secretary,  
 Ministry of foreign affairs.
Ministry of foreign affairs,
P.o. Box 583, Republic Building,
colombo 01,
21st July, 2016.
sPEciMEN foRM N
o. 1
application for the post of home Based personal 
assistant in sri lanka missions aBroad– 2015(2016)
(only for applicants from Public /Provincial Public /
Local government services)
part a
      
 
(For office use only)
01.  (i) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––––. 
 (eg.: hERath MudiyaNsELagE saMaN 
KuMaRa guNaWaRdhaNa)
 (ii) Name with the Last Name first and initials of 
other Names at the End (in block letters) :–––––.
  (eg.: guNa WaRdhaNa h.M.s.K.) 
 (iii) Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02.  address:
 (i) Official (in English) :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Private (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
  (admission card will be posted to this address)
 (iii) telephone No. :––––––––––––.
03. (i) sex : 
  female – 1
  Male  – 0   
    (give the relevant No. in the box)
 (ii) N.i.c. No. :
 (iii) date of Birth :
  y ear :  Month : date :
 (iv) age as at closing date of applications:-
  y ears :  Months : days :

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1767
04.  civil status :
  unmarried - 1 
 Married      - 2  
 (give the relevant No. in the box)
05. if married, Name of spouse and his/her nationality 
:––––––––––.
06. Number of children, their Names, dates of Birth and 
their ages :––––––––––.
07. if spouse is employed, particulars of employment (if 
a Government Officer, give full particulars)  :––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications (including medium) :           
––––––––––.
09. date of first appointment under Public/Provincial 
Public/Local government sector :–––––––––.
10. Date of Confirmation :––––––––––.
11. Present grade and date of Entry to it :––––––––––.
12. Present annual salary :––––––––––.
13. Nature of Present duties :––––––––––.
14. speed in  :
 (a) English stenography :––––––––––.
 (b) English typing :––––––––––.
15. Proficiency in  :
 (a) English Language :––––––––––.
 (b) sinhala/t amil Language :––––––––––.
 (c) computer Literacy :––––––––––.
 (d) other foreign Languages :––––––––––.
16. sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant 
had served earlier and the period :––––––––––.
17. Any other qualifications :––––––––––.
18. Remarks :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt obtained from the Post Office/Sub 
Post Office for the payment of correct amount of 
examination fees,in the below cage
 (i) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
 (ii)  Post Office/Sub Post Office :––––––––––.
 (iii)  date :––––––––––.
 (iv)  amount :––––––––––.
 
19. Certificate by Applicant:-
I declare that during the five years preceding ………., 
2016 have earned all increments and that i have not 
been subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment 
(excluding warning), and that to the best of my knowledge 
and belief the information given in this form is correct and 
accurate.
i further declare that i will be subject to rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations in relation to examination procedures.
  –––––––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
part B
CeRTIFICATe oF The heAD oF DeP ARTMeNT
(To be filled in by the Head of the Department)
I have ascertained that during the five years preceding 
………., 2016, Mr./Mrs./Miss………………… has,
 (a) earned all his/her increments,
 (b) not been subjected to any form of disciplinary 
punishment (excluding warning).
i certify that the particulars given in the application 
are correct.  i hereby certify that the examination fees 
have been paid and the receipt is attached herewith.  the 
officer placed his/her signature in my presence and I certify          
his/her signature.
This officer, if selected, could be released from his/her 
present post immediately.
  –––––––––––,
  signature of head of department.
  (With the Official Frank)
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1768
sPEciMEN foRM No. 2
application for the post of home Based personal 
assistant in sri lanka missions aBroad– 2015(2016)
(for applicants other than those from Public/Provincial 
Public/Local government services)
part a
      
 
(For office use only)
01.  (i) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––––. 
 (eg.: hERath MudiyaNsELagE saMaN 
KuMaRa guNaWaRdhaNa)
 (ii) Last Name with initials (in block letters) :–––––.
  (eg.: guNa WaRdhaNa h.M.s.K.) 
 (iii) Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
02.  address:
 (i) Official (in English) :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Private (in block letters) :––––––––––––.
  (admission card will be posted to this address)
 (iii) telephone No. :––––––––––––.
03. (i) sex : 
  female – 1
  Male  – 0   
  (give the relevant No. in the box)
 (ii) N.i.c. No. :
 (iii) date of Birth :
  y ear :  Month : date :
 (iv) age as at closing date of applications:-
  y ears :  Months : days :
04.  civil status :
  unmarried - 1 
 Married      - 2  
 (give the relevant No. in the box)
05. if married, Name of spouse and his/her nationality 
:––––––––––.
06. Number of children, their Names, dates of Birth and 
their ages :––––––––––.
07. if spouse is employed, particulars of employment (if 
a State Officer, give full particulars)  :––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications (including medium) :           
––––––––––.
09. Name of the institution and the period where the 
applicant has served during the five years preceding 
the closing date (Please annex service certificate) :
 Name of Institution Designation Period
   From          To
10. date of confirmation :––––––––––.
11. Present grade and date of Entry to it :––––––––––.
12. Present annual salary :––––––––––.
13. Nature of Present duties :––––––––––.
14. speed in  :
 (c) English stenography :––––––––––.
 (d) English typing :––––––––––.
15. Proficiency in  :
 (e) English Language :––––––––––.
 (f) sinhala/t amil Language :––––––––––.
 (g) computer Literacy :––––––––––.
 (h) other foreign Languages :––––––––––.
16. sri Lanka Missions (if any) in which the applicant 
had served earlier and the period :––––––––––.
17. Any other qualifications :––––––––––.
18. Remarks :––––––––––.
Paste the receipt obtained from the Post-Office/Sub 
Post-Office for the payment of correct amount of 
examination fees,in the below cage :
 (i) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
 (ii)  Post-office/Sub Post-Office :––––––––––.
 (iii)  date :––––––––––.
 (iv)  amount :––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1769
iii of the courts Management assistant service in the 
scheduled Public Officers Service form those who possess 
the qualifications mentioned in this notice. 
02. the post is permanent and pensionable. 
03. Salary scale.- Rs. 28,940 - 10x300 - 11x350 - 
10x560 - 10x660 - Rs. 47,990 (Payments will be made in 
accordance with schedule ii of P. a. circular No. 03/2016 
till 01.01.2020. the initial salary step would be Rs. 16,980 
by 01.01.2016 and the adjustment allowance is Rs. 9,859. 
apart from these cost of Living allowance will be paid). 
04. Age.- the applicants should not be less than 18 
years and not more than 30 years of age by the closing 
date (upper age limit will not apply to applicants from 
government service).
05. Educational Qualifications.- applicants should 
possess following qualifications.
 (a) should have passed g. c. E. (o/L) Examination 
in 06 subjects in one sitting with 04 credit passes 
for 02 subjects from sinhala/t amil or English 
Language/English Literature and Mathematics ; 
  and
 (b) should have passed g. c. E. (a/L) Examination 
in all subjects (except common general test) in 
one sitting. Passing g. c. E. (a/L) examination 
old syllabus in 03 subjects in one sitting would be 
sufficient. 
 (c) applicant's knowledge in other international 
languages will be an additional qualification. 
06. applicants those who possess stipulated 
qualifications are required to appear for a written 
examination under following subjects. applicants who 
have reached the required limit of marks will be recruited 
after a Viva Voce.
 (i) Syllabus.- Language (sinhala/tamil/English). an 
essay on a literary or general subject and other tests 
of comprehension, Precis Writing, vocabulary, 
usage and idiom of Language correction of errors. 
this paper will be of the standard of the general 
Certificate of Education (a/L) Examination. 
19.  Certificate by applicant:-
i hereby certify that the information given in this 
application is true and correct. i am aware that, should any 
of the information given by me above are found to be false 
or incorrect, I am liable for disqualification before selection 
and to dismissal without compensation, if the inaccuracy is 
detected after the appointment. 
i further declare that i shall be abide by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations with regard to conducting this examination 
and decisions taken by him with regard to issuing results. 
  –––––––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
part B
CeRTIFICATe oF The heAD oF INSTITuTIoN
(to be filled in by the head of the institution)
i certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .................... 
is serving in this institution from ......................... his/
her work and conduct are satisfactory, and placed his/
her signature before me on ...................... i further certify 
that the prescribed examination fee has been paid and the 
receipt obtained by paying the above fee has been affixed. 
This officer, if selected, could be released from his/her 
present post immediately.
  –––––––––––,
  signature of the head of institution.
  (With the official Frank)
        
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
08–413
––––––––––––––––
juDICIAL SERVICE  COmmISSION 
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment of Officers to the Post of Courts 
Interpreter Grade III in the Courts management 
Assistants Service - 2016
aPPLicatioNs are invited to recruit courts interpreters 
(sinhala/English, sinhala/tamil, tamil/English) grade 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1770
 (ii) t ranslations.- this subject will comprise of three 
papers :
(a) translation of sinhala into tamil or English,
(b) translation of tamil into sinhala or English,
(c) translation of English into sinhala or 
tamil. 
  (applicants are also required to translate a literary 
passage, a passage of general interest, an extract 
from an official report or document, a newspaper 
article or report)
it is compulsory for the applicants to answer two 
translation papers under 6(ii) above according to their 
qualifications. In selecting the two translation question 
papers the selection should be done in such a manner 
that the two languages relevant to the post applied by the 
applicants are chosen for translation as per paragraph 01. 
time duration for each paper is 02 hours. 
Note.- in all written papers marks will be deducted 
for bad  handwriting and mistakes in spelling. 
07. the selected applicants should serve in any part 
of the island in which they are called upon to serve after 
recruitment. 
08. the specimen form of application for this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
the applicants should prepare the application forms in 
compliance with the format set out below. the receipt 
obtained by paying a non refundable amount of Rs. 500 
administrative fee from any People's Bank branch to 
the credit of the account of "secretary, Judicial service 
commission" No. 297100199025039 of the People's Bank, 
Dam Street branch should be affixed on the due place of 
the application. 
09. applications should be sent under registered post 
addressed to the secretary, Judicial service commission 
secretariat, colombo 12 to reach on or before 15.09.2016. 
the name of the examination should be indicated on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is 
enclosed. applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected. Applications from officers in Public Service 
should be submitted through their respective heads of 
departments. 
10. any questions with regard to the application, the 
decision of the secretary, Judicial service commission 
will be final. 
 
pradeep jayathilake, 
 secretary, 
 Judicial service commission. 
Judicial service commission secretariat, 
colombo 12, 
25th July, 2016. 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR thE 
REcRuitMENt of officERs to thE Post of 
couRts iNtERPREtER gRadE iii iN thE couRts 
MaNagEMENt assistaNts sERVicE - 2016
 index No. :–––––––.
 (For office use only)
N. B.- The form should de correctly and legibly filled 
by own hand -writing of the applicant. first page 
should contain No. 1-10. Write the given number in 
the relevant cage. 
01.  (i) Last name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :––––––.
  (ii) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
02. gender : female/Male :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
04. address to which the admission card should be sent 
to :–––––––––––.
05. Permanent district :–––––––––––.
06. telephone Number :–––––––––––.
07. National identity card Number :–––––––––––.
08.  (a) date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  (b) age as at the closing date :
   y ears :––––––. Months :–––––––.days :––––––.
09. interpreter post applied for :
 1. sinhala - tamil
 2. sinhala - English 
 3. tamil - English 
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
10. Medium of the language paper :
  (i) 1. sinhala 
   2. tamil
   3. English 
   (Write the relevant number in the cage)
  (ii) translation 
   1. sinhala into tamil or English language 
   2. tamil into sinhala or English language
   3. English into sinhala or tamil language
   (Put a (
P) in front of the two question papers you 
wish to sit)

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1771
11. if already employed in the government service : 
  (i) Ministry/department :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Present Post :–––––––––––.
  (iii) date of appointment to the present post :–––––––.
  (iv) Date of confirmation in the present post and 
reference No. :–––––––––––.
  (v) Official address :–––––––––––.
12. Qualifications : Educational Qualifications :
 (indicate results of each Examination separately with 
their index numbers)
  (a) g. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
   index No. :–––––––––––. y ear :–––––––––––.
    Serial No. Subject Grade
  (b) g. c. E. (o/L) Examination :
   index No. :–––––––––––. y ear :–––––––––––.
    Serial No. Subject Grade
  (c)  Knowledge in other international languages :––––.
Note.- Affix below the receipt obtained by paying the 
relevant fee according to the instructions given in 
the circular so as not to be detached. 
i certify that the above information given in this form 
are true and i also agree to be bound by the rules governing 
the examination. i am also aware that if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
appointment. I am liable to be disqualified and if so found 
after appointment i am liable to be dismissed without any 
compensation. 
 ––––––––––––––.
 signature. 
date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department : 
i hereby certify that above applicant is an employee 
in this Ministry/department and that the information 
furnished by him/her are correct, and that he/she could be /
could not be released from his/her present post, if selected 
to the above post. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 head of department.
 Name :–––––––––––.
 stamp :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
08-365
–––––––––––––––––––
CO-OPERATIVE  DEVELOPmENT  
DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
of Co-operative Development Officer Grade III
iN terms of the section 7.2 of procedure of recruitment 
of Co-operative Development Officer Grade III at the Co-
operative development department, an open competitive 
examination will be held  by the commissioner general 
of Examinations for selecting the qualified persons for 
12 vacancies in the grade iii co-operative development 
Officers and applications are called from the those who 
qualified according to the notice attached herewith.
Date of examination.–  Examination will be held by 
the commissioner general of Examinations in November, 
2016 in colombo. the co-operative development 
commissioner and Registrar of co-operative societies are 
empowered to postpone or cancel this examination.
01. Number of appointments and the date of which the 
appointments are effective:-
the number of appointments and the date of which 
the appointments are effective  will be decided by the 
co-operative development commissioner/ co-operative 
society Registrar. the co-operative development 
commissioner/Registrar of co-operative societies shall 
reserve power not to fill any number of vacancies or all the 
vacancies.  
02. Service Conditions :
 (i) the selected applicants will be appointed for 
the post of Co-operative Development Officer 
grade iii subject to the general conditions 
for appointments in the government service 
published in the beginning of the chapter (ii b) 
of part i of the general Gazette , conditions 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1772
stipulated in the procedure of recruitment of co-
operative Development Officer, amendments 
done hereafter to that procedure of recruitment.
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable.
 (iii) The qualified applicants will be appointed 
to this service subject to 3 year probationary 
period.
 (iv) Confirmation of the service of those who are 
appointed for the post depends on the following 
matters also.
  (a)  Work, attendance and conduct should be 
satisfactory;
 (b) Relevant efficiency bar examination 
should be passed before the probationary 
period is completed.
 (c) A full time certificate course on "Co-
operative development" of not more than 
01 year and 500 hours should be followed 
within a period of one from recruitment. 
Practical exercises of at least 03 months 
are included in this course. this course is 
held by National institute of co-operative 
development and at the end of the course 
an institutional examination will be held. 
12 question papers with 100 marks are for 
each subject. cut off marks are 40. if this 
examination is failed the service of the 
post of Co-operative Development Officer 
will be terminated.
 (v) Inability to be confirmed in the service at the 
end of the probationary period will be resulted 
termination of his/her service.
 (vi) Competency of other official language should 
be achieved within a period of five (05) 
years according to the provisions in Public 
Management circular No .01/2014 dated 21 
January, 2014.
 (vii)  selected candidates are subjected to the 
condition of serving in any part of the country.
 (viii) this appointment is subjected to rules of the 
procedures of Public services commission, 
Establishment code of the democratic socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka, financial Regulations, 
orders and regulations issued by the government 
from time to time and circulars, instructions 
and orders issued from time to time by the 
co-operative development commissioner and 
Registrar of co-operative societies.
3. Salary Scale.– according to the schedule i of 
Public Management circular No.03/2016 and dated 
25.02.2016, monthly salary scale for this post is MN -3-
2016 (31,040-10x445-11x660-10x730-10x750-57,550) 
But you will be paid salaries in terms of provisions of that 
circular and according to its  schedule ii. (Eg. Basic salary 
from 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016 will be 18,212.00 and an 
adjustment allowance of Rs. 9,794.00).
4. hygiene and discipline. – Every applicant should 
be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the 
country and perform duties of the post.
5. Qualifications.– Every applicant should be,
 (a) a citizen of sri Lanka;
 (b) not less than 18 years and not more than 30 
years of age to the date of closing applications. 
Accordingly, the qualification regarding the age 
is fulfilled only the day of birth of the applicant 
falls on 09.09.1998 or before and on 09.09.1986 
or after.
 (c) with a good character
 (d) The following educational qualifications should 
be fulfilled by the applicants.
  (i) having passed the g.c.E. (o/L) examination 
in six (06) subjects at one sitting with two 
(02) credit passes for sinhala/tamil/English 
language, Mathematics and other subject 
and
 (ii)  having passed the g.c.E. (a/L) examination 
in all the subjects (except common general 
test) including Economics, accounting, 
Business statistics, Business studies, 
agriculture, applied Mathematics. (having 
passed in three subjects at one sitting of the 
old syllabus is sufficient)
 (iii) having passed the higher diploma in 
accountancy or auditing or Management 
in the National institute of co-operative 
development or,
 (iv) Having Passed the final stage of AAT or 
having equivalent qualification or, 
 (v) having a diploma in accountancy or 
Management from a recognized university.
 (e) It is compulsory for every applicant to fulfill all 
the qualifications stipulated for the post on or 
before the date of calling applications.
6. examination fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. 
The examination fee should be paid for any post office/ 
sub post officer to be credited to the revenue head of the 
commissioner general of Examinations 13.02.2003 on 
or before the date of applications and the receipt obtained 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1773
in the name of the applicant should be affixed on the due 
place of application. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the application with candidates. the full amount or a part 
of the examination fee would not be refunded in any case. 
further, stamps or money order for examination fee are not 
accepted.
07. Method of application :
 (a) application should be prepared according to the 
specimen attached to this notice using both sides 
of A4 and filled with his/her own hand writing. 
Nos. 01 to 03 should be on the first page and Nos. 
04 onward should be on other pages. applications 
that are not comply with the specimen form, not 
paid examination fee on the due date and not 
filled correctly and incomplete applications will 
be rejected without any notice. the loss that may 
be caused due to incomplete applications should 
be borne by applicants themselves. Keeping a 
photocopy of the application will be useful.
 (b) When applications are prepared the name of the 
examination should be mentioned also in English 
in sinhala application forms except in sinhala and 
in tamil application forms except in tamil.
 (c) the duly completed applications should be sent 
to reach commissioner general Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, P.o. Box 1503, 
colombo under registered post on or before 
09.09.2016. "open competitive Examination 
for Recruitment of co-operative development 
Officer Grade III-2016" should be clearly 
indicated on the left hand corner of the envelop. 
applications received after date of closing are 
not accepted in any way. the applicants from 
Public service/Provincial Public service should 
forward their applications through the heads of 
departments/institutions. 
 (d) incomplete applications will be rejected. No 
complaint that an application has been lost or 
delayed in post shall be considered. further, 
admission for examination is not accepted as an 
eligibility for that. this admission is subjected to 
check later.
 (e) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. 
as soon as admission cards are issued a notice 
shall be published in newspapers by the 
department of Examinations. if the admission 
card is not received even after 02 or 03 days from 
publication of such advertisement, steps shall be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations. 
it should be inquired from the department of 
Examinations with photo copies of the application 
and the receipt for payment of examination fee, 
receipt for registration of application mentioning 
your full name, address, National identity card 
No. and the name of examination correctly. in 
case of applicants outside colombo, a letter of 
request furnishing a fax number will be benefited.
 (f) signature of the applicant in the application 
and admission card should be certified by an 
authorized person. the signature of those who are 
already in the Public service or Provincial Public 
Service should be certified by the relevant head 
of the department or an authorized officer, the 
signature of other applicants should be certified 
by a Justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, 
attorney-at-law, Notary Public, Principal of a 
government school, (an Officer in Staff Grade 
holding a permanent post in Public or Provincial 
service whose annual consolidated salary is more 
than Rs. 240,360/-), or a chief incumbent of a 
Buddhist temple or chief Prelate or other clergy 
holding a considerable position as the chief Priest 
of a religious place.
08. Admission for examination :
 (a) admission cards will be posted to every applicant 
who has duly forwarded the application by 
the commissioner general of Examinations. 
the applicants shalll sit for the examination at 
the examination centre given to them and the 
admission cards where their signature is certified 
should be produced to the invigilator on the first 
day itself. applicants who are unable to produce 
their admission cards are not permitted to sit for 
the examination.
 (b) a  set of laws to be followed by every candidate is 
published on this Gazette notice.
 (c) issuance of admission cards to candidates for 
sitting the competitive examination do not mean 
that he/she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications 
for this post.
 (d) candidates have to be subjected to rules related 
to conducting of examinations imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations. in case 
those rules are violated, they have to undergo 
punishment imposed by the commissioner 
general Examinations.
09. Identity of candidates. – Every candidate shall be 
required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall at 
all subjects in a level satisfied by the invigilator concerned. 
for this purpose, only the following documents shall be 
accepted.
* Valid National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
* a valid Passport issued by the department of 
Emigration and immigration.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1774
10. Providing unfounded information.- in case of 
tracing not having qualifications to a candidate at any time 
of in advance to examination or whilst sitting or aftermath 
of examination will liable to cancel his/her candidacy. if 
found that any such information had been provided with 
intent or else he/she had intentionally neglected to reveal 
any important matter will liable to dismiss from the public 
service. 
11. Type of examination :
 (a) in all three languages (sinhala/t amil/English)
 (b) candidates to sit for this examination by 
the language medium appeared in qualified 
examination for the applying this examination or 
any state language only.
Note -  (i)  "Qualified examinations" referred above 
(b) means one of the examinations given 
in 05
th para
 (ii)  all question paper replied at examination 
to be in same language.
12. examining method :
 (a) By a written test based on the following subjects 
and through a general interview.
    Marks Time
   1. iQ 100 01 hr.
   2. general Knowledge 100 01 hr.
 (a) iQ - this is a question paper consists with 50 
questions made with multiple choice questions 
and short answering type in order to gauge logical 
thinking, survey ability, decisive capacities. Every 
candidate shall sit for all questions.
 (b) General Knowledge. – (a) National and 
international social Economical and Political 
know-how and
  this is a question paper consists with 50 questions 
made by multiple choice questions and short 
answering type in order to gauge knowledge on 
national and international co-operative vision 
and business, Every candidate shall sit for all 
questions.
 (c) candidates secured at least fourty percent (40%) 
from marks allocated for each subject would be 
qualified, irrespective of its form of a competitive 
examination, for the interview. interviews will be 
held on a day informed by after the examination 
date. interview will be held for inspecting 
qualifications of the candidates and no additional 
marks will be given thereto.
13. Mode of selection for appointments.- candidates 
who have secured highest marks from two papers of 
written examination. in case many candidates had 
secured same marks, final decision thereto reserves with 
the commissioner of co-operative development and the 
society Registrar. 
14. according to para 12(b), notifying result of the 
examination will be sent to candidates in person by the 
commissioner general of Examinations or will be webcast 
on web site of the Examination department. (www.results.
exams.gov.lk)
 d. 
jeeWanadan, 
 co-operative development commissioner 
 and co-operative society Registrar.
department of co-operative development, 
No. 330, union Place, 
colombo 02,
on July, 2016. 
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM 
open competitive examination for recruitment to 
grade iii of co-operative development officer - 2016
For office use
* Language Medium :
sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
1.0  1.1 full Name (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
   eg. : (hERath MudiyaNsELagE saMaN  
 KuMaRa guNa WaRdhaNa)
  1.2 Last name with initials (in block capitals) :––––.
   (eg. : guNa WaRdhaNa, h. M. s. K.)
  1.3 full Name (sinhala/t amil)  :–––––––––––.
  1.4 National identity card No. :
2.0  2.1 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
   (in block capitals)
  2.2 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
   (sinhala/t amil)
  2.3 address to which admission cards should be sent  
:–––––––––––.
   (in block capitals)
3.0  sex : 
  Male  - 0
  female - 1
  (Write  the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1775
4.0  date of Birth :
  y ear :  Month : date :
  age on 09.09.2016 :
  y ears : Months : days :
5.0  Educational Qualifications :
  5.1 g. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
 (i) y ear and Month of the Examination :–––––.
 (ii) index No. :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.  6.
2.  7.
3.  8.
4.  9.
5.  10.
  5.2 g. c. E. (a/L) Examination :
 (i) y ear and Month of the Examination :–––––.
 (ii) index No. :––––––––––.
 (iii) Results :
 Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.  3.
2.  4.
  5.3 i f you have a degree from recognized university :
 (i) university :––––––––––.
 (ii) degree :––––––––––.
 (iii) y ear of Examination :––––––––––.
6.0  Professional Qualifications :
  (i) –––––––––––––
  (ii) –––––––––––––
  (iii) –––––––––––––
7.0  have you ever been convicted by any court of Law ? 
:––––––––––.
  (Mention 
P in the relevant cage) 
  y es   No
  if yes, mention details :––––––––––.
8.0  details of the receipt for payment of examination fees : 
  (i) Office at which examination fees were paid : 
––––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
  (iii) amount paid :––––––––––.
Paste in this cage securely the original receipt for 
payment of examination fees. 
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt).
9.0  Certification of candidate : 
  (a) i hereby declare that the particulars mentioned 
by me are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to abide by the loss incurred 
by any omission and/or misstatement in this 
application. i further, declare that the application 
has been filled correctly. 
  (b) i understand that if the facts mentioned by  me 
are proved false prior to the appointment it can 
be grounds for rejection of my application and 
after the appointment, for dismissal from the 
service. 
  (c) i agree to abide by the laws and rules imposed 
by the commissioner general of Examinations 
regarding this examination. 
  (d) i will not change any information mentioned by 
me later.
  ––––––––––––,  
 signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
10.  (a) Certification of Identity :
i hereby certify that this applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ......
.................................... is known to me personally, he/she 
has paid the due examination fees, the original receipt is 
affixed to the application, he/she placed the signature in 
my presence. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester. 
date :––––––––––.
full name of attester :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Place official stamp here)
Certification of the Head of the Department for applicants 
in Public Service :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................
........................ is serving in this Ministry/department on 
permanent/temporary/casual basis, if he/she is selected for 
this post he/she can/cannot be released from the service. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the Secretary 
 to the Ministry/head of the department. 
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
08-390

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1776
mINISTRy Of IRRIGATION AND WATER RESOuRCES mANAGEmENT
Irrigation Department 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR thE REcRuitMENt to thE Posts of thaKshaNa 
sahayaKa (iRRigatioN) aNd thaKshaNa sahayaKa (MEchaNicaL) - 2016
1.0 APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination to 
be held to fill the following vacancies in the Service Category of Management Assistant Technical Segment 03 in the 
irrigation department. 
 1.1 Posts expected to be recruited : 
  Serial Designation Number of  Grade to be 
  No.  Vacancies recruited
  1 thakshana sahayaka (irrigation) 122 grade iii
  2 thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical) 13 grade iii
 1.2 Nature of duties : 
 Serial No. Designation Assigned duties
  1 thakshana sahayaka (irrigation) following tasks assigned under the supervision   
   of an engineering assistant
     * to supervise the work of new constructions,  
     improvements and repairs in the field. 
     * to perform the responsibilities of such work 
      according to the approved standards of 
      irrigation department.
     * to supervise operational and maintenance 
      work of projects like irrigation, lift irrigation 
      and prevention of floods in the relevant field. 
     * to be vigilant and to protect the irrigation 
      lift irrigation, flood prevention and salt water  
     prevention projects, buildings, roads and their  
     reservations of irrigation department
  2 thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical)  * to take over machines and vehicles brought to 
      the mechanical workshops for repairs. 
     * to supervise the duties of the junior employees 
      attached to the mechanical section. 
2.0 Method of Recruitment : 
 2.1 Recruitments are made on the results of a written competitive examination to be held by an institute 
approved by the director general of irrigation and a general interview. from those who passed the written 
examination, qualified persons will be selected by subjecting an equivalent number of applicants to the 
number of expected recruitments to the general interview according to the total marks they obtained at 
written examination. 
 2.2 The general interview is solely for checking the certificates and physical fitness of the applicant and not for 
allocating marks.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1777
3.0 Salary Scale.- as per the schedule ii of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016, the monthly salary 
attached to this post is Rs. 29,840 -10x300 -11x350 -10x560 
- Rs. 48,890 (Mt1-2016). according to the schedule ii of 
the said circular the salary applicable from 01.01.2016 to 
13.12.2016 is a consolidated salary of Rs. 17,508 and an 
adjustment allowance of Rs. 9,831.
4.0 conditions for engagement in service and service 
conditions : 
 4.1 this post is permanent and pensionable. 
 4.2 the appointment is subjected to a probationary 
period of three years. First Efficiency Bar 
Examination mentioned in the scheme of 
recruitment should be passed within 3 years from 
the date of recruitment to grade iii of technical 
assistant. 
 4.3 according to the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014, in addition to the language of 
recruitment, the required proficiency in the other 
official langauge should be obtained within five 
years from the date of recruitment. 
 4.4 this appointment is subjected to the Procedural 
Rules of Public services commission. the 
Establishment code of the democratic socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka, financial Regulations 
and other departmental orders.
5.0 Age limit.- age should not be less than 18 and not 
more than 35 years at the closing date of applications. 
6.0 Required Qualifications :
 6.1 Educational Qualifications :
  should pass the g. c. E. (ordinary Level) 
Examination in 6 subjects including Language or 
literature, Mathematics and science in not more 
than two sittings. 
 6.2 Vocational Qualifications :
  t echnical assistant (irrigation)
  Having obtained the relevant certificate (NCT 
-civil) for passing the three year part time 
National Certificate Course (civil) from a 
technical college recognized by the tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission or 
having obtained a similar certificate issued 
by an institute recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission. 
  t echnical assistant (Mechanical) :
  Having obtained the relevant certificate (NCT 
- mechanical) for passing the three year part 
time National Certificate Course (Mechanical) 
from a technical college recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education commission 
or having obtained a similar certificate issued 
by an institute recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission. 
 6.3 Physical Fitness.- Every applicant should be 
physically and mentally fit to perform the duties 
of the post and to serve in any part of sri Lanka.
 6.4 Other Qualifications :
 (i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka, 
 (ii) should be of excellent moral character, 
 (iii) Qualifications required for appearing for 
the examination are accepted only if the 
applicant has completed all the relevant 
qualifications and the specified age limit 
by the date mentioned in the notification 
for calling the applications. 
7.0 if any information mentioned in the application 
sent by you is found to be false or incorrect prior to the 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such 
information is revealed after the recruitment, action will 
be taken to dismiss you from service, subject to relevant 
actions. 
8.0 Procedure of examination.– Examination is a 
written test consisting two subjects. the examination shall 
be held in sinhala and tamil media and the medium in 
which applied for cannot be changed subsequently. 
 Question Paper/ Time Total Pass 
 Subject area  Mark  Mark
intelligence test 1 hour 100 40
subject related 1 hour 100 40
technical test
8.1 Syllabus for the examination : 
 1. intelligence test : 
 for thakshana sahayaka (irrigation) and 
thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical)
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
intelligence test consists of questions to 
    judge the logical and 
    analytical thinking and 
    decision making ability of the  
  candidate 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1778
2. subject related technical test
  for the post of thakshana sahayaka (irrigation)
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
subject related  consists of questions to assess
technical test the basic mathematical 
    knowledge and basic civil 
    Engineering knowledge
 for the post of thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical) :
Name of the Question Syllabus
 Paper
subject related  consists of questions to assess
technical test the basic mathematical 
    knowledge and basic 
    Mechanical Engineering   
  knowledge
 8.2 this examination will be held only in 
Colombo in October 2016. The final decision 
relating to the postponement or cancellation 
of the examination is rested with the director 
general of irrigation.  
9.0 Preparation and Submission of the application : 
 9.1 the application should be prepared by the 
candidate themselves on paper sized 21x29cm 
(a4) using both sides. topics from 1.0-6.0 
should appear on the first page, from 7.0-11.0 
on the second, from 12.0 - 14.0 on the third 
and 15 on the fourth page.
 9.2 applicants who are already in Public service 
or Provincial Public service should send their 
applications through their heads of departments 
and applicants who are serving in government 
co-operations, Provincial councils etc. shoud 
sent their applications through their heads of 
institutes, on or before the specified date. 
 9.3 applications should be prepared in the medium 
you are appearing for the examination. 
 9.4 applications that do not comply with the 
specimen application and are not completed in 
every aspect will be rejected without notice. 
 9.5 Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
complains regarding applications lost in the post 
will not be considered. 
 9.6 issuance of an admission card to sit the 
examination does not mean that the candidate 
has fulfilled the requirment for the post. 
 9.7 according to the post you are applying for, the 
words "Recruitment for the post of thakshana 
sahayaka (irrigation) or Recruitment for the 
Post of thakshana sahayaka (Mechanical)" 
shall be clearly mentioned on the top left 
corner of envelope. 
 9.8 the signature of an applicant should be attested 
by a Principal of a government school, Justice 
of Peace, commissioner of oaths, Notary 
Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed 
Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post 
in the Police Service or an officer holding a 
permanent position in a tertiary or senior level 
in Public service as per the grading of Public 
administration circular No. 06/2006.
 9.9 Final decision on filling vacancies, not filling 
vacancies or filling some of the vacancies and 
all other particulars is reserved by the director 
general of irrigation. 
10.0 Sending the application .- completed application 
form should be sent by registered post to reach the 
following address on or before 29th august, 2016. 
director general of irrigation, 
irrigation department, 
No. 230, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, 
colombo 07.
11. Sitting for the examination.– a candidate should 
submit his/her admission card to the supervisor. candidates 
who are unable to submit the admission card shall not be 
allowed to sit for the examination. a candidate should sit 
for the examination in the same hall he/she is assigned to. 
12. Identity of the candidate. – a candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accpeted :
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a  valid passport.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1779
13. if there is any inconsistency among the sinhala 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the 
sinhala text will prevail. 
 Eng. s. s. L. Weerasinghe, 
 director general of irrigation. 
irrigation department, 
colombo 07,
on the date 27th of July, 2016. 
specimen application 
open competitive examination for the recruitment to 
the post of thakshana sahayaka (irrigation/mechanical) 
fallen v acant in the irrigation department - 2016
(For office use only)
1.0 Language Medium of examination :
 sinhala - 1
 t amil  - 2
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Post applied for ...........................................................
 (separate applications should be sent for each post)
3.0 Name with initials (initials at the end) (Mr./Mrs./Miss) 
:–––––––––––.
 in sinhala/t amil :–––––––––––.
 in English (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
 (eg. : PERERa   a. B. c.)
  3.1 Name in full :
   in sinha;a/t amil :–––––––––––.
   English (in block capitals) :–––––––––––.
4.0 National identity card No. : 
5.0 sex :
 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 Male   - M
 female - f
 
6.0 Permanent address (legibly) :
 in sinhala/t amil  :–––––––––––.
 in English block capitals  :–––––––––––.
 6.1 address to which the admission card should be 
send :
   in sinhala/t amil  :–––––––––––.
   in English blo ck capitals  :–––––––––––.
7.0 telephone No. : 
 fixed  :–––––––––––.
 Mobile  :–––––––––––.
8.0 Residence :
  8.1 district  :–––––––––––.
  8.2 divisional secretariat division  :–––––––––––.
9.0 civil status :
 unmarried  - 1
 Married - 2
10.0  date of Birth : 
 date : Month : y ear :
 10.1 age as at closing date (29.08.2016) of 
application  :–––––––––––.
  y ears : Months : days :
11.0 Educational Qualifications : 
  11.1 Particulars of g. c. E. (ordinary Level) 
examination :
  first attempt : 
  (i) year and the month of the examination :––––––.
   admission No.  :–––––––––––.
   Results : 
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 . 6.
2 . 7.
3.  8.
4.  9.
5.  10.
 second atte mpt : 
  (ii) year and the month of the examination :––––––.
   admission No.  :–––––––––––.
   Results : 
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 . 6.
2 . 7.
3.  8.
4.  9.
5.  10.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'08'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.08.2016
1780
12.0 V ocational Qualifications :
 Studied course Institute Period Certificate number
     and valid date
13.0 declaration of the applicant :
i, ...................................... hereby certify that all 
the particulars given here are true and correct and also 
certify that i have not been expelled from public service 
or not compelled to retire on inefficiency as sympathetic 
alternative or treated as giving vacated the post. i am aware 
that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false 
or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection 
and dismissed from service without any compensation if 
it is found after selection. further i agree to serve at work 
sites in the field of irrigation in any part of Sri Lanka if I am 
appointed to this post. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
14.0 attestation of the applicant's signature :
i, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. 
who submits this application is known to me personally 
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.
and that he/she placed his signature under the above Para 
13 in my presence on .......................
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of officer attesting the signature. 
date :–––––––––––.
Name of the officer attesting the signature :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Certify by placing the official seal)
15.0  Certificate of the head of department : 
 (only for the applicants who are in Public service/
Provincial Public service)
i, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... 
who is submitting this application is serving in this 
department as ........................... and the information he/she 
has given above is correct. further, he/she can/cannot be 
released from the service if he/she is selected for this post. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the head of the 
 Department and the Official Seal. 
date :––––––––––––.
08–297/2