

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 09.05.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2018$11 - 2017 uehs ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2017'05'09
No. 2018/11 - TUESDAY,  MAY  09, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
GUIDELINES  AND  CRITERIA  GOVERNING  THE  PAYMENT  OF  REWARDS  FROM  THE COASTAL
PROTECTION  REWARD  FUND  ESTABLISHED  IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH  SECTION 31(F) OF  THE
COAST  CONSERV ATION  AND  COASTAL  RESOURCE  MANAGEMENT  ACT,  No. 57 OF 1981 AS
AMENDED  BY  ACT, No. 64 OF 1988 AND No. 49 OF 2011
A fund called the “Coastal Protection Reward Fund” has been established under Section 31F(1) of the Coast Conservation
and Coastal Resource Management Act, No. 57 of 1981. Accordingly, you are informed to pay the relevant rewards as per
the guidelines and criteria framed to pay the same from the money credited to the said fund.
M
AITHRIPALA S IRISENA,
Minister of Mahaweli Development and Environment.
26th April 2017.
Guidelines in the determination of the qulifications for eligibility of paying a reward from the Coastal Protection Reward
Fund established in accordance with Section 31(F) of the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management Act,
No. 57 of 1981 as amended by Act, No. 64 of 1988 and No. 49 of 2011.
1. Persons who are eligible to claim rewards
(I) Police Officers :
(Police Officers who were involved in taking the suspects concerned into custody and produced to the
court and those who handled the relevant case and gave evidence in that regard)
(II) Officers who are serving in the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management.
(Those who complained to the police about the relevant illegal act, those who gave evidence with regard
to the relevant case and those who made submission to the court on behalf of the Department)
1A   PG  3525 — 507  (05/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 09.05.2017
2A
(III) Any other public officers who were involved in handling the court case, an operation for taking the suspects
into custody or those who gave evidence for a court case.
(IV) Persons who provided information in respect of the relevant illegal act.
2. The manner  in which the money credited to the fund shall be allotted
* Consolidated Fund 40%
* For Rewards 50%
* Other expenses 10%
(Out of the amount allotted to the other  expenses, 5% will be allotted for the administation activities of the
fund whereas the remaining 5% to be allotted for the welfare of all the officers of the Department of Coast
Conservation and Coastal Resources Management)
* The maximum amount to be spent for the annual welfare out of the 5% value allotted for the same is of
Rupees One Million (Rs. 1,000,000/-)
* If any amount is left out after paying rewards subject to a maximum of Rs. 50,000/- per person out of the
amount allotted for the payment of rewards, the remainder shall also be credited to the biannual consolidated
fund.
* If any amount is left out after allotting Rs. 1,000,000/- for the annual welfare in any year out of the
amount of 5% which is allotted for the same the remainder shall also be credited to the consolidated fund.
3. Qualifications to be fulfilled for the grant of rewards
(I) Before the payment of any reward, all the fines recovered pertaining to the relevant case and the sum of
money realized by the disposal of articles forfeited under the provisions of this Act should have been
credited to the Coastal Protection Reward Fund.
(II) The maximum amount of reward to be paid to a police officer or a public officer who took part in a court
case shall be Rupees Fifty Thousand (Rs. 50,000/-) per each such case.
(III) Before the payment of rewards, the list of the police officers who engaged in the duties of arresting the
suspects and in legal proceedings shall be furnished under the signature of the OIC of the relevant police
station. The list of the persons who complained to the police about the relevant offence and who provided
information in that regard and also those officers in the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resource Management and other public officers who took part in the court case and gave evidence shall
be certified by the OIC of the relevant police station and the Director General of the Department of Coast
Conservatioin and Coastal Resources Management.
4. The way of making payments for rewards  :
(i) Payments for reward shall be made as follows out of the 50% amount allotted for the rewards.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 09.05.2017
3A
S. No. Description T o the Officers of the To the other
police Department of Coast persons who
officers Conservation and pr ovided
Coastal Resources information
Management/the other
Government officers.
(a) Where the police officers have 100% No No
only been involved in the case without
a complaint, appearing for the case, or
giving evidence or any other involvement
in that regard by the officers of the
Department of Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resources Management
(b) Where the suspects have been taken into 70% 30% No
custody by police officers upon a
complaint made by the officers of the
Department of Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resources Management and
where no officers of the Department
of Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resources Managment have engaged
in any court case or giving evidence
therein.
(c) Where the suspects have been taken 50% 50% No
into custody and instituted legal action
against them by the police officers upon
a compliant made by the officers of the
Department of Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resources Management and
where the officers of the Department
of Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resources Management or the officers
of the Attorney General’s Department
have appeared before the court and
given evidence and/or where a public
officers have took part in giving evidence
before the court.
(d) Once police officers have executed the 80% No 20%
relevant arrest upon the information
given by the general public (where no
any other public officers have not
engaged in it.)
(e) Where the relevant arrest has been made 50% 30% 20%
upon the information received from the
general public and where the other public
officers have taken part in giving evidence
before the court.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 09.05.2017
4A
(ii) The sum of money allotted to the rewards for police officers will be equally divided among the all police
officers who were involved in the court case and the relevant money will be paid to the police officers
directly by the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management.
(iii) The sum of money allotted for rewards will be divided equally among the officers of the Department of
Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management and the other public officers who involved in
any court case and who made complaints and gave evidence before the court in that behalf.
5. Payment Procedure :
(i) Payments for rewards will be made biannually.
(ii) The minimum fine to be eligible for a reward is Rupees Five Thousand (Rs. 5,000/-)
05-703
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.