

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
                               PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
                               PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 242
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"147 – 2019 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 25 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'10'25
No. 2,147 –  FRIDAY ,  OCTOBER 25, 2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  15th November, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 1st November, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
241 - B 081572-353 (2019/10)
N.B.—   Part  IV (A)  of the  Gazette No. 2146  of  18.10.2019 was  not  Published. 
Note.–    (i) Land (Restrictions on Alienation) (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 11th October, 2019.
 (ii) Tobacco Tax (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of 11th October, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'10'25
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2019
242
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’ s No. : 4/10/54194.
Provincial Land Commissioner’ s  No.: NCP/PLC/L6/
Vihara/Ipalogama.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notiﬁ ed that for the Purpose of Dhammasheelarama 
Bhikkuni Aranya  The  Board at Trustees, Dhammashee-
Laramaya, located in Mithiwatta Yowun Gammana, 
Maradankadawala has requested on lease a state land 
containing in extent about 02 R, 25 P, marked in tracing 
depicted as portion of Lot No. 216 in plan F. V . P. 879 and 
situated in the Village of Dampelessagama which belongs to 
the Grama Nilashari Division of No. 517, Dampelessagama 
coming within the area of authority of Ipalogama Divisional 
Secretariat in the District of Anuradhapura.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : State Land ;
On the East by : State Land;
On the  South by :  State Land;
On the West by :  Reservation for access Road.
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out 
the land subject to other Government approved conditions and 
the following conditions. : -
 
 ( a) Terms of the Lease .– Thirty Years,  (30) (from 
12.03.2018 onwards).
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 1/2% of the 
Undeveloped value of the land as per Valuation of the 
Chief Valuer of the year 2018.
  (b) (I) The  lessee must, within one year of the 
commencement of the lease, should constract and 
complete monastery building on this land, in such 
a manner as to  captivate the mind of the Divisional 
Secretary.
  (II) The lessees should fully protect the trees and 
plants on this land, For any reason, these trees and 
plants should not be cut and selled, or destroyed 
or damaged, without the written permission of the 
Divisional Secretary.
 ( c) The lessee must not use this land for any purpose other 
than for the purpose of Dhammasheelarama Bhikkuni 
Aranya.
 ( d) Collecting funds for the proposed building and 
Administration are with the commissioner General of 
Buddhist Affairs.
 (e)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 ( f) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
 ( g) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair.
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date of publishing this 
notiﬁ cation in Gazette to the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as 
requested.
  
PUBUDI PREMADASA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,”Mihikatha Medura”,  Land Secretariat, 
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
25th October, 2019.
10-818
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.