

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I ) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2365$75 – 2024 ckjdß 06 jeks fikiqrdod – 2024'01'06
2365/75 – SATURDAY, JANUARY  06, 2024
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
My No.: CI/1220. 
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Collective  Agreement entered into between Associated Battery Manufactures (Ceylon) Ltd, No. 31, Katukurunduwatte 
Road, Oﬀ  Attidiya Road, Rathmalana of the one part and the Commercial and Industrial Workers Union, No. 17, Barracks 
Lane, Colombo 02 of the other part on 09th June, 2023 is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956). 
 B. K. Pඋൺൻൺඍඁ Cඁൺඇൽඋൺ඄ൾൾඋඍඁං,
 Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
08.12.2023.
1A – G 41198 – 11 (2024/01)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 2A
Collective Agreement No. 34 of 2023
Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited
Collective Agreement 2022
THIS Collective Agreement is made and entered into on this 09th day of June, Two Thousand Twenty Three (2023) 
between Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited, havi ng its Registered oﬃ  ce at No. 31, Katukurunduwatte 
Road, Off Attidiya Road, Rathmalana, (hereinafter referred to a s the ‘Employer’) of the one part and the 
Commercial and Industrial Workers Union registered under Number  4252 under the Trade Union Ordinance, having its 
Registered Oﬃ  ce at No. 17, Barracks Lane, Colombo 02, (hereinafter referred to as the 'Union') of the other part witnesseth:
WHEREAS the Union has shown to the satisfaction of the Employer that it represents a majority of the employees employed 
by the Employer in the Manual grades in the Employers Factory, the Employer having negotiated with the Union regarding 
terms and conditions of service of the factory employees concerned have agreed to as follows.
   1 .  Title.– This Agreement shall be known and referred to as the  Associated Battery Manufacturers (ceylon) Limited 
employees’  collective agreement of 2022.
   2 .  Parties Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employees the Union and all its members 
employed on permanent monthly contracts by the employer in its factory in the categories referred to in the ﬁ rst schedule 
hereto and hereinafter referred to as 'The Employees'.
   3 .  Date of Operation and Duration.– This Agreement shall be eﬀ ective from the First day of August Two Thousand 
Twenty Two and shall continue in force for a minimum period of four (04) years unless it is terminated by either party giving 
one (1) months notice in writing to the other of its intention to terminate the Agreement, provided however, that neither party 
shall give such notice on or before thirty ﬁ rst (31) day of July Two Thousand and Twenty Six.
   4 .  General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the employer and an employee 
covered and bound by this Agreement., whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date 
hereof or which shall come into being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of the Agreement.
   5 .  Production Targets and Operation Procedures .– The Union agrees that the minimum Production Targets and 
operating procedures will be as set out in schedules III, and IV hereof. The minimum production targets are subject to normal 
conditions including minor breakdowns such as minor stoppages f or setting changes etc. and are variable in the event of 
major machine break-downs, power failures, and delay in raw mat erals, technical issues or other circumstance acceptable 
to the Management. However, in the event of any of the above situations, employees should make every attempt to give the 
maximum output thereafter by working till end of the shift.
   6 .  Probation.– Every employee recruited by an Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) 
months. Provided however that if during the six (6) months probationary period the Employer is not satisﬁ ed with the progress 
of such employee, the probationary period may be extended for a  further period of three (3) months, and in that event the 
Employer shall indicate to the employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended. During the 
period of probation or extended probation the Employer shall have the right to terminate the services of the employee without 
notice. If the employee's services are not terminated for unsat isfactory service during the period of probation or extended 
probation and the employee has not been conﬁ rmed by the Employer the employee shall be deemed to be conﬁ rmed in his 
Employer's service with eﬀ ect from the day after, the day on which the period of probati on, or extended probation as the 
case may be ended.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 3A
   7 .  Attendance.– 
 ( a) Unless otherwise speciﬁ cally instructed by his Employer an employee shall present himself for work on every 
day (other than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the stores, factory or job and shall there remain available 
for work throughout the normal working hours.
 ( b) If, at the factory, work is temporarily not available for an employee in his own workplace, he shall be deemed 
to be ready and willing to perform work within his capacity and skill in any other occupation at any department 
of the Employer where work is available.
 ( c) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an employee shall co nstitute neglect of duty for which he shall be 
liable for appropriate disciplinary action. In such an occation of absence other employees should make their 
best eﬀ ort to cover the absence.
  All the sections will be operated as per the current practice .
   8 .  Hours of work.– The normal working hours shall be those hours which are customarily worked in the establishment 
of the Employer.
   9 .  Forfeiture of wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer, an employee fails to hold 
himself available for work throughtout the normal working hours of each working day, he shall forfeit and his Employer shall 
be entitled to deduct his wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.
   10. Overtime.– 
 ( a) If required by his Employer an employee shall work reasonable  overtime which has been authorized by the 
Employer. Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable 
to the Employer shall constitute neglect of duty for which an employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary 
action.
 ( b) Overtime work (i.e. work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and one 
half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 (a) hereof.
 11. Weekly Holidays.– 
 1) In respect of each week every factory employee to whom the Shops and oﬃ  ce employees' Act will not apply. 
Shall be allowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as the we ekly holiday. Provided however, that if an 
employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty-eight (28) hours, exclusive of any period of overtime 
work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Em ployer shall be entitled to deduct one day's 
wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 
hereof.
 2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred  to in sub-clause. 
  The Employer shall include;
   (i) Every holiday allowed be the Employer to the employee as  annual holiday, 
   (ii) Every Public holiday granted by the Employer in terms o f clause 13 hereof; and
   (iii) Every day's absence on any ground approved by the Empl oyer.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 4A
 3) The Employer may employ any employee on a weekly holiday su bject to the following conditions;
  (i) A day within the six (6) days next succeeding such weekly  holiday shall be allowed to that employee 
as a holiday with remuneration. Provided however that if any em ployee who is employed on a 
weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and his Employer is entitled to deduct one day's wage in respect 
of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (a). then and in such event that employee shall 
forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's wage computed in accordance with the 
provisions of clause 19 (b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to the employee 
within six (6) days of that two (2) such weekly holidays in any  one calendar month an Employer 
may with the consent of the employee;
  a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday withtin six (6) d ays of the weekly holiday in respect 
of which that employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the employer shall not be entitled to 
deduct one day's wage as aforesaid, pay him one day's wage comp uted in accordance with 
the provisions of clause 19 hereof in lieu of such alternate holiday or
  b) In case that employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly 
holiday as aforesaid in respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the 
employer shall be entitled to deduct a day's wage as aforesaid employ that employee on the 
alternate holiday.
 (ii) That in respect of work done on such a holiday employees shall be paid as remuneration;
  a) One and half (1 1/2) time the normal hourly rate ascertain ed in accordance with the provisions 
of clause 19 here of clause 19 hereof for the number of hours worked during the ﬁ rst nine (9) 
hours (inclusive of one hour for meal) and
  b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 
hereof for each subsequent hour of work.
 12. Annual Holidays.– Annual holidays shall be allowed to employees in accordance with the decisions of the 
wages board applicable to them,
 13. Statutory Holidays.– Statutory holidaays shall be allowed to employees in accordance with the decisions of the 
Wages Board applicable to them save and except in the case of those employees who shall  be covered by the provisions of 
the Shops and Oﬃ  ce Employees Act where the provisions of that Act shall apply in this regard.
 14. Casual Leave.– 
 a) In respect of each year of employment during which any empl oyee has been continuously in 
employment that employee shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable 
cause including ill health if that employee's entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave 
(hereinafter referred to as 'casual leave') with remuneration for the period or an aggregate of periods 
not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such casual leave and shall be liable 
to pay such casual leave and shall be liable to pay such remune ration. Provided however that not 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 5A
more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken at any time saves and except upon the ground  
of ill health provided further that any worker shall not be entitled to take casual leave immediately 
preceding or immediately  following any period of annual holidays. Provided furher that in respect 
of any employee's ﬁ rst year of employment including any period of probation he sh all be entitled 
to casual leave for that year computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two 
months; service.
 b) Casual leave will normally be granted on application withou t the employee being required to state 
the reason for the application. Where an Employer ﬁ nds it diﬃ  cult to grant an application for casual 
leave, his diﬃ  culty shall be notiﬁ ed to the Employee as soon after the application is made and such 
case the employee may be required to state the reason for the application in order that the employer 
may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him casual leave.
 c) An employee who avails of less than seven (7) days Casual l eave during any calendar year shall 
be entitled to receive a payment equal to two (2) days salary in respect of each day of unveiled of 
Casual leave.
 14. Sick Leave.– 
 a) In any year an employee shall be entitled to sick leave not  exceeding twenty one (21) days. provided 
that;
 b) 
   i) His illness is supported by a certiﬁ  cate from a Registered Medical practitioner (unless 
waived by his employer) within seven (7) days if the absence ex ceeds seven (7) days or 
where the absence is less than 07 days on the date that such em ployee reports to work. 
However in any one year an employee may avail himself of up to a maximum of seven 
(7) single days which are not consecutive on production of a sick note. Provided however 
that an employee has to inform the company within 24 hours, if the prior approval has not 
been obtained.
   ii) The employee shall not be on probation within the meanin g of clause 06 hereof. Provided 
however that an employee who has been on probation shall as from the date of conﬁ rmation 
in respect of the remainder of the ﬁ  rst year of employment be entitled to sick leave not 
exceeding ten (10) days if he is conﬁ rmed after six (6) months' probation and sick leave 
not exceeding ﬁ ve (5) days if he is conﬁ rmed after nine months (9) probation.
 c) Accumulation  and encashment of  sick leave.-
     An employee who avails of less than twenty one (21) days s ick leave during a calendar 
year is permitted to accumulate lying to his credit in that year.
 (ii) Accumulation is permitted up to sixty three (63) days and could be utilized during any prolonged illness subject to a 
Medical certiﬁ cate acceptable to the  Employer being produced. Sick leave thus accumulated will be valid up to the 
date of retirement/or cessation of employment.
 (iii) The entitlement to sick leave is subject to the leave being approved before hand or the employer being informed of the 
reason for absence.
 (iv)  Utilization  of next  year's Sick Leave is permitted up to seven and half days (7 1/2) if an employee who has exhausted 
his leave entitlement is unable to attend his normal work  due to an accident, surgery or any other sickness which needs 
hospitalization.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 6A
  Unavailed leave can be encashed and payment will be  made equal to two (02) days salary in respect  of each day of 
unavailed  casual and sick leave.
    16.  Wages.–  
  All eligible employees have already received Rs. 10,000/- into their basic salary with effect from 01st April 2023.
  
  4 month bonus entitled for the ﬁ nancial year 2022/23 has also been paid to those eligible employees in calculation  
  of  the above mentioned increase basic salary.This payment was made as a full and ﬁ nal payment after  considering   
  all the factors and validity only for this Agreement.
  As a gesture of goodwill an ex - gratia  sum of Rs.5000/- will be paid to those eligible employees after signing the  
  agreement.
   17.   Non-Recurring Cost of Living Allowance (NRCLA) .– No change in the existing payments of Non Recurring Cost of          
Living Allowances (NRCLA) which was paid to the respective employees in September 2009. Those payments will 
be continued to be paid as per the terms and conditions set out in clause 17 of the Collective Agreement 2006.
  Parties agreed that in the event of re-publication of the Colombo Consumers Price Index (CCPI) during the pendency of 
this Collective Agreement parties would renegotiate and make an applicable payment from the date of commencement of 
publication of such index.
   18.  If During The Continuance in force of the Agreement The Government of Sri Lanka.–  (a) Prescribes increases in wages by 
any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging the Employer to make such payment, 
the employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law and in terms of such written law.
 (b) Recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of whether 
or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
19.  Wages for the Period less Than One Month.– For the purposes of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less 
than one month shall be computed in the following manner.
(a) For one hour - the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240).
(b) For one day - the monthly wage divided by thirty (30).
(c) For one half day  - a day's wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
 (either morning or afternoon).
(d) For one week - a day's wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7).
20.  Non-Recurring Cost of Living Gratuity (NRCLG) .- Parties have agreed that in the event of re - publication of the Colombo 
Consumers Price Index (CCPI) during the pendency  of this Collective Agreement parties will renegotiate and calculate an 
applicable payment and would make a payment accordingly with effect from the date of such re - publication of the Colombo 
Consumers Price Index (CCPI).
21.  Provident Fund. - An employer and an employee shall contribute to the provident fund at rates prescribed by the Employees 
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
22.  Terminal Beneﬁ ts.- Terminal beneﬁ ts will be paid in accordance with the formula in the Gratuities Act, No. 12 of 1983.
23.  Bonus. – (i) Without prejudice to the employers claim that Bonus payments are ex-gratia, the employer shall during the pen-
dency of this Agreement pay by way of an Annual Bonus to each employee in the month of April each year a sum amounting to 
two and half (2 1/ 2) months salary. The salary for this purpose shall be the monthly salary payable to an employee as at March 
of such year.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 7A
(ii) In addition to the payment referred to at (i) above the employer undertakes to pay, also in the month of April each year the 
following amounts subject to the achievement of production levels in the factory as detailed hereunder during the preceding 
ﬁ nancial year, i. e. 1st April to 31st March.
(a) A sum equal to half (1/ 2) months salary provided the production in the factory during the preceding ﬁ nancial year is not 
less than 237,000 units of batteries.
(b) A sum equal to One (1) months salary, inclusive of the amount referred to at (ii) (a) above, provided the production in the 
factory during the preceding the ﬁ nancial year is not less than 270, 000 units batteries.
(c) A sum equal to One and a quarter (1 1/ 4)) months salary, inclusive of the amount s referred to at (ii) (a) and (b) above, 
provided the production in the factory during the preceding the ﬁ nancial year is not less than 296, 000 units batteries.
(d) A sum equal to One and half (1 1/ 2) months salary, inclusive of the amounts referred to at (ii) (a),  (b) and (c)  above, 
provided the production in the factory during the preceding the ﬁ nancial year is not less than 302, 000 units batteries.
(e) For 302,001 to 480,000 battery units, cents 40 will be paid per battery unit and no such payment will be made for  480,001to 
518,000 battery units. However, over 518,001 battery units  will be entitled  for the payment  of cents 40per Battery unit 
(f) Bonus will be deducted as per the attached schedule - 6 for the employees who have unauthorized no - pay absence.
(g) Number of Battery units will be calculated based on below table.
Battery Type - Family Battery Units
D23, D26, D31,B 20, B24 1
N. 100, N 120, N 150 1 1/2
N 2000 2
24.   Annual  Increments.– Employees will be entitled to Annual Increments with effect from 01st April each year in accordance 
with the formula set out in the Second Schedule hereto.
 (a) An Annual Increment of an employee can be suspended, stopped or differed by the Employer by way of punishment for 
misconduct.
 (b) An Annual Increment if suspended, stopped or differed shall mean;
 i. Differed the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout his career.
 ii. Stopped, the loss of increment shall only be for the period of stoppage.
 iii. Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being depen-
dant upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension, where on such decision an increment is neither 
stopped nor Differed, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date of suspension 
thereof  shall accrue to the employee concerned.
25.  Warning.– If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the employee by a 
letter, a duplicate of which shall be signed by the employee. If the employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning may be 
given to the employee orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses and the warning  letter will be ﬁ led in the personal 
ﬁ le with the attestation of the two witnesses.
26.  Suspension.- (a) An employee may be suspended without pay by the Employer.-
i. Pending an inquiry to be held by  such Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which warrants dismissal.
ii. In order to avoid a breach of peace or damage to the property or disturbance or the business of the employer.
iii. As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after due inquiry.
(b) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (a) i. or within twenty four (24) hours thereof, the Employer shall provide the 
employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reason for such suspension specifying the reason for such sus-
pension and thereafter hold an inquiry into the charge or charges in terms of Clause 27 hereof.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 8A
26.  Disciplinary Action.- Where an Employer proposes to proceed against the Employee then -
(a) Irrespective of where an employee has been suspended under Clause 26 hereof or not, the employee shall be furnished with 
a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such employee 
and such show cause notice shall give the employee not less three (3) clear working days in which to give the answer or 
explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(b) Within three (3) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the employee shall furnish in writing to the Employer 
the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such employee. Provided, however, that if in the circumstances 
it is reasonable, the employee may ask the employer for an extension of time within which to furnish the written answer or 
explanation to the show cause notice and where such request is made by an employee to the employer, the employer shall 
grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.
(c) If the Employer is satisﬁ ed with the written answer or explanation of the employee, the employee shall, if he is under sus-
pension, forthwith be reinstated and shall be paid all wages and entitlement due for the period of such suspension.
(d) If the Employer is not satisﬁ ed with the written answer of  explanation of the employee to the show cause notice and such 
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the employer shall commence an inquiry within ten (10) working days 
from the date  of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(e) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the employee of the ﬁ ndings on each of the charges in the show cause 
notice and the punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer  fails to make an order except 
for reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30) working days from 
the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges the employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such 
charges and no inference adverse to the employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(f) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that -
 (i) the employee shall not be dismissed, then, the employer shall resume employment forthwith and shall, subject to the     
provisions of sub-clause 26(a) (iii). Hereof, be paid all wages  and entitlement due for the period of suspension  irrespec-
tive of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the ﬁ ndings as to the charges 
in the show cause notice.
 (ii) the employee shall be dismissed, the employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the employee’s suspension 
and accordingly the employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension.
 (iii) in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the employee, the Employer is 
unable to make a ﬁ nal order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities 
for further investigations  or if in view of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the employee 
the matter had been previously referred to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome 
of such investigations or inquiries be awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended 
without pay.
 (iv) If in any case where an employee is suspended as provided for herein and the employer shall fails to make an order under 
paragraphs (i) to (iii). Of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the employee’s own seeking within 
thirty (30)  working days from the date of the employee’s suspension, the employee shall be entitled to half his normal 
remuneration for the period of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period 
of suspension in excess of thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes an order under paragraphs (i) to 
(iii). Of the preceding sub-clause irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
 (v). In any case where an employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs (i) 
to (iii) of sub-clause (f) within ninety (90) days of the date or suspension of the employee unless he is prevented from so 
doing by reason of the employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between 
the federation and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of ninety (90) days be extended for such 
further time, as may be agreed.
 (vi). The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (d) and (e) hereof where the Employer 
proposed to warn the employee or where the employee admits to the charges or charge. Provided however, that if the 
Union disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an 
inquiry, the employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then 
apply subject to the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within ten (10) working days after receipt 
of the employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 9A
28. Retirement.- Your age of retirement is 60 years and shall be subject to the Minimum retirement  Age Act No. 28 of 2021.  On 
reaching the age of  60 years you shall ipso facto retire add cease to be an employee of the company.
 There would be no further extension of the contract. However, if there is a charge of  the retirement age in future i.e. , 55 years, 
the  Clause No. 28 of Collective Agreement of year 2018 will be applicable for the retirement.
29. Termination of Service.- 
 (a)  Every contract, whether oral or written, for the hire of any employee by the Employer except for work usually performed by the 
day or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of Clause 6 hereof or unless otherwise expressly stipulated) 
be deemed and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable from month to 
month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given by either party to 
the other or his intention to determine the same such month has expired.
(b) Where any  employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual or temporary work he shall be informed thereof 
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period on 
the failure of the employee to complete the job within a reasonable time.
30. Union Recognition. - The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of its members employed in the work 
place of the Employer. In regard to issues of general application or the effect of principles such as matters affecting general terms 
and conditions of employment in the work place the following provisions shall apply :
(a) When the Union is representative of not less than forty per centum (40%) of the employees whose membership subscription 
is not in arrears the Employer of such employees will recognize that union for the purpose of general claims and matters 
and negotiate with it on that basis. 
such employees will recognize that union for the purpose of general claims and 
matters and negotiate with it on that basis.
 ( b) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the  establishment of the Employer the union is 
competent to make general claims or raise general matters the s ame shall be determined by a referendum 
which results of such referendum shall be held by the Departmen t of Labour and the results of such 
referendum shall be binding on the Employer and union and the parties hereto.
   31. Dispute Procedure.– 
 ( a) In the ﬁ  rst instance the union shall submit any demand on behalf of it s members to the Employer of such 
members and give the Employer at least ten (10) working days time within which to reply. If in the union’s 
opinion the Employer’s reply is unsatisfactory the union and th e Employer shall explore the possibility of 
reaching a settlement.
 ( b) When the union concludes that negotiations with the Employer have been abortive it shall ask the Department 
of Labour to intervene and give the Department not less than te n (10) working days to arrange conference 
and /or discussion with a view to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the Department 
of Labour shall then proceed until the Department reports failure.
 ( c) Subject to the provisions of clause 33 hereof all disputes be tween the union and the Employer or between 
the parties hereto shall be settled in accordance with the prov isions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the 
regulations made thereunder.
 ( d) Any party for this Agreement shall not instigate, support of engage in any unfair labour practices during the 
currency of this Agreement.
   32. Anomalies in the Course of Implementation.– Any anomaly arising from the implementation of this Agreement 
shall be settled by negotiations between representative of the Federation of which the employer is a member and the Union 
and if the matter cannot be settled by negotiation the matter s hall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
   33. Trade Union Action.– The Union and its members and the employees covered and bound b y this Agreement 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 10A
jointly and severely agree with the Employer that during the co ntinuance in force of this Agreement they shall not engage 
in any strike or other form of trade Union action against the E mployer in respect of any dispute between the Employer 
and the Union and or its members and/or any employee or employe es covered and bound by this Agreement whether or 
not such dispute is related to this Agreement, except where suc h dispute has been caused by an act of the Employer which 
in the opinion of the controlling body (by whichever name calle d) of the union is mala ﬁ de or vindictive or calculated to 
threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activitie s of the Union and/or its members or is grossly unfair or 
seriously detrimental to the interests of the Union and/or its members. Provided however that at least seven (7) days notice 
in writing shall be given by the Union to the Employer, the Fed eration and the Commissioner of Labour before the date or 
commencement of any intended strike or other from of trade union action consequent to an act of an employer which in the 
opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the union is mala ﬁ de or vindictive or calculated to threaten 
or undermine the existence of the legitimate activities of the Union and/or its members or is grossly unfair or seriously 
detrimental to the interests of the Union and/or its members.
   34. Production Bonus Scheme.– 
 ( a) With eﬀ ect from 01 June 2019 a Production Bonus scheme in accordance with the formula set out in the 
attached Schedule 5 hereto will become operative.
 (i) The actual battery production against the agreed productio n norms in the CA would be the basis of 
calculation of the production bonus payment.
 (ii) The payment will be made under this scheme on a monthly b asis.
   35. Meal Reimbursement.– 
 ( a) Management agreed to pay Rs. 350/- per employee per working d ay as meal reimbursement. This rate is 
considered based on the rate of a lunch packet of “ﬁ sh, rice and curry” at the Canteen. (Existing rate of a 
lunch packet of “ﬁ sh, rice and curry” is Rs. 175/-). Accordingly, employees are paid the same rate in double 
at present. This rate is subject to amend if there is a rate increase or decrease occur for the current rate of a 
lunch packet (“ﬁ sh, rice and curry”).
 ( b) In addition to the above meal reimbursement, management agreed to provide the following for all employees 
on working days.
 ● Amount similar to the value of a 300 ml Coca cola bottle
 ● One egg
 ● One tea bun and a tea
 ( c) Three packets of 400 grams Anchor milk food will be provided (in lieu of a cup of Nestomalt at 3.00 p.m.) 
per month per employee.
   36. Long Service Award.– 
 ( a) Each employee/who has completed 10 years of uninterrupted ser vice will be entitled to a gift of two gold 
sovereign from the Employer.
 ( b) On the completion of 20 years of uninterrupted service an emp loyee will be entitled to receive three gold 
sovereigns.
 ( c) On retirement from the service of the company as employee wil l receive three (3) gold sovereigns.
 ( d) On the completion of more than 30 years of uninterrupted service an employee, an additional gold sovereign 
will be oﬀ ered by the employer.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 11A
   37. Shift Allowance.– Factory employees will be entitled to shift allowance as set out hereunder, when working on 
shifts:-
 First shift - Rs. 35.00
 Second shift - Rs. 65.00
 Third shift - Rs. 245.00
   38. Medical Beneﬁ ts.– 
 ( a) Reimbursement of medical expenses for the family will be made to a maximum of Rs. 16,500/- per annum 
to each employee and the same will be deposited in a savings account at the beginning of the ﬁ nancial year.
 ( b) The Employer will obtain an individual life insurance policy for the employee and a hospitalization insurance 
policy up to Rs. 225,000/- per annum on behalf of each employee, spouse and their three children under 18 
years of age. Each employee agreed to contribute for the premiu m of Rs. 25,000/- out of Rs. 225,000/- on 
monthly basis towards this hospitalization insurance. Further i ncrease of the limit per annum will have to 
be discussed at the next renewal without increasing the cost to the company.
 ( c) The Employer agrees to reimburse the value of spectacles purchased by the employees up to Rupees Eight 
Thousand (Rs. 8,000/-) once in four years.
 ( d) The Employer agrees to reimburse the value of lenses replaced  by the employees up to Rupees Five 
Thousand (Rs. 5,000/-) once in two years.
 ( e) The other existing medical facilities referred to at clause 3 8 of the Associated Battery Manufacturers 
(Ceylon) limited manual workers’ collective agreement of 1989 will continue to be extended to employees.
 (i) Availability of a Doctor for half an hour in the morning.
 (ii) In-house dispensary facilities.
 (iii) Specialist consultation on the recommendation of the Com pany Doctor.
 (iv) Dental treatments.
 (v) Availability of transport from the factory in case of emer gency/accident to the hospital.
  39. Annual Excursion.– The Employer shall provide for an Annual Excursion. The arrangements will be made through 
consultation and agreement with the Branch union.
   40. Annual Party.– The Employer shall provide for an Annual party. The arrangement s will be made through the 
Sports Club in consultation with the Branch union. 
   41. Travelling Reimbursement.– A payment equivalent to the one liter of petrol will be paid to  all employees 
who reported for work per day. This is based on the rate of one  liter of normal petrol issued by the Sri Lanka Petroleum 
Corporation. The amount paid to the employees should be revised when the rate of one liter of petrol is revised.
   42. Free Battery Issue.– The Employer will issue one MFS 65 battery free to each employee each year.
   43. Funeral Assistance.– In the event of the death of an immediate family member of a pe rmanent employee, the 
Employer agrees to grant the following concessions:-  
 ( a) On a request made by the union under authority of its members  the Employer agrees to deduct from the 
salaries of employees in respect of whom such request is made, and advance such money to the union.
 ( b) Grant leave without loss of pay for four (04) employees named  by the union and two (02) others at the 
discretion of the management to attend the funeral.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 12A
 ( c) Make a donation of Rupees Sixteen Thousand (Rs. 16,000/-) by way of funeral assistance to the employee 
concerned.
 ( d) Make a donation of Rupees Five Thousand (Rs. 5,000/-) to buy a wreath for a funeral of a family member.
  An “immediate family member of an employee for the above purp ose shall mean spouse, unmarried 
children, parents including father-in-law and mother-in-law. In the case of unmarried employees, unmarried 
brothers and sisters shall also be included.
   44. Wedding Assistance.– In the event of marriage of an employee the Employer shall gran t a sum of Rupees 
Sixteen Thousand (Rs. 16,000/-) to each such employee.
   45. Employee Loans.– Employees shall be entitled to a single loan up to a maximum of  six months (06) salary 
deductible without interest in thirty six (36) monthly installments. For this purpose a loan application form supported by two 
employees as guarantors are required.
   No any other loans will be considered during this period. Un ion has the right to negotiate for a fresh loan after one 
year from the settlement date of existing loan.
   46. Christmas Gift.– Rupees Seven Thousand Five Hundred (Rs. 7,500/-) by way of a voucher will be paid during 
Christmas.
   47. Soap.– The company agrees to provide two cakes of Lux soap and one cake of Lifeboy soap per month for each 
factory employee.
   48. Factory Operating Procedures.– The union agrees that the operating procedures and work schedul es in the 
factory shall be as indicated under Schedule 03 hereof and as hitherto practiced.
END OF PART ONE
PART II
Containing the Facilities and concessions Granted by the Employer to the Union
   1 .  Breaches of Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the employer the union commits a breach of  any of the 
terms of this Collective Agreement then and any such event the union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and 
concessions granted by the Employer in the succeeding clauses o f this Part and the same shall stand withdrawn without 
prejudice to the Employer’s right to restore such facilities and concessions upon such terms and conditions as the Federation 
may decide.
   2 .  Domestic Inquiries.– If an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of Clause 27 is a member 
of the union, the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice:-
 ( a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow a m ember or such union (hereinafter referred to 
as observer) to be present as an Observer without loss of wages for absence from work.
 ( b) If the employee who is served with a show cause notice desire s an Observer to be present at the inquiry to 
be held pursuant to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed 
for the commencement of the inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such Observer.
 ( c) An observer may answer any question which the person who cond ucts the inquiry may ask him, but an 
observer shall not be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise 
partake in the inquiry.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 13A
 ( d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to reque st an Observer who obstructs such inquiry 
in any manner whatsoever to withdraw there from and an observer  shall forthwith comply with such 
requirement.
 ( e) The absences of an observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate 
such inquiry, nor the proceedings thereat, nor the ﬁ ndings pursuant thereto.
   3 .  Union Meetings.– 
 The following provisions shall apply to meetings of the union: -
 ( a) In respect of each meeting which the union desires to hold at  the Employer’s premises, an application for 
permission shall be previously made to the Employer.
 ( b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the Employer sha ll be entitled to impose, inter alia, one or 
more of the under noted conditions:-
(i)  That no person other than an employee in the service of the Employer shall be present at a meeting of the union.
(ii) On occasion such as the Annual General Meeting of the union, the of ﬁ ce bearers of the parent union may, with the 
previous approval of the Employer, attend.
(iii) Fix a time limit within which meeting of the union shall be concluded of adjourned.
(c) It shall be duty of the Union and its ofﬁ ce Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of such 
Union is granted are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its ofﬁ ce Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of or in connec-
tion with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons indemnify the Employer and keep the 
Employer indemniﬁ ed against any such damage.
4.  Duty Leave.–  
 (a) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave without prejudice to the right of an Employer to refuse to grant permission 
if in his discretion the exigencies of the circumstances warrants refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less 
than two ofﬁ ce bearers of the Union.
      
(i) to be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employer’s Federation of Ceylon or the Depart-
ment of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer, 
                   or
(ii) to attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals 
 Without loss of wages for such absence.
 (b) The Employer will in his discretion grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend  a Trade Union course of 
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays which 
he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
5. Check off.–
 (a) In this clause “Employer” shall mean the Employer bound by this collective Agreement in whose establishment the mem-
bership of the Union is not less that forty percent (40%) of the employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(b) The employer shall, on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employee the current monthly 
Union dues as are speciﬁ ed by the Employee to be payable monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit the amount so 
deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 14A
(c) Every Employee who agrees to the deductions of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to the effect in the form 
set out in Form No. 1 hereinafter referred to as an “authorization” as set out in the second shedule hereto.
(d) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect 
in the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as  a “revocation”.
(e)  As far as practicable, deductions under an Authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of 
receipt of such Authorization and shall continue thereafter until the Authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(f) As far as practicable, deductions under an authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of revocation cancelling such  
Authorization. Provided, however.-
 (i)  that an Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the union or the Employee concerned for failure to 
comply with sub-clause (e) or (f).
 (ii) that at his discretion an Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in which 
the deductions by way of check-off will together with all other deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month 
exceed the deductions permitted by law.
(g) The Employer shall not later than the tenth day of each month remit the union dues deducted ftom the wages of the employees 
in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each Authorization by a 
cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
(h)  The cheque shall be sent, at the risk of the Union and the employees concerned by post in a pre-paid envelope addressed to  
the Treasurer of the union at its address for the time being.
(i)  The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(j)  The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the   
union dues actually deducted.
 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 15A
FORM No. 1
Name of Employer : Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited
AUTHORISATION
  As I am an Employee covered and bound by the collective Agreement affecting Employees employed in a manual or labouring 
capacity in the ..........................................................................................................................................
  Trade and bearing No.: .............. and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check off contained in the Collective Agreement to 
which I am eligible as a member of the  ................................ union.
  Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees (Rs.........) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said 
union on my behalf. The ﬁ rst payment should please be made from my wage next due immediately following the date hereof.
 .....................................................................   ...................................................... ...............
 Date of signing    Signature of Employee
.......................................................................................................
FULL NAME OF EMPLOYEE
Received on ................................................................
(To be ﬁ lled by an employee)
FORM No. 2
Name of Employer : Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited
REVOCATION
With reference to the Authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages further membership dues in favor of ...
..................................................................
Union with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date hereof.
.............................................................    .............................................................. ......
Date of signing       Signature of employee
..............................................................................................................................
   FULL NAME OF EMPLOYEE
    Received  on : ..................................................................................................
      (to be ﬁ lled by an Employer)

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 16A
PART III
CONTAINING DEFINITION OF CERTAIN WORDS
In parts I and II of this agreement unless excluded by the subject or context the following words shall have the meaning set oppo-
site to them.
 Words  Meaning
 Branch Union The Branch union of the commercial and Industrial workers' union in the establishment  
  of  the Employer.
 Check off The act of the Employer deducting at the request of the union, subscriptions payable to  
   the union, by an Employee from the latter's pay with his concurrence.
 Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
 Employees (For convenience some  All Employees covered and bound
 times referred to as 'he' or its  by this Agreement.
 grammatical variations) 
 Employer (for convenience sometimes  Associated Battery Manufacturers (Ceylon) Limited
 referred to as 'he' or its grammatical
 variation)
 Federation Employers Federation of Ceylon
 Industrial Dispute Act The Industrial Disputes Act No. 43 of 1950
 Normal Incremental Date The date on which an Employee would normally receive an increment.
 Union commercial and Industrial workers union
 Wage The monthly wage according to the scale of consolidated wage applicable at the         
  relevant time
 Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding  
   Saturday night
 Year  A  continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include feminine.
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
SCHEDULE  I
EMPLOYEES COVERED AND BOUND
FACTORY EMPLOYEES
01. Group Leaders.
02. Employees engaged in skilled, 
 Semi skilled and unskilled 
 Work in the factory and stores.
03. Forklift operators.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 17A
SCHEDULE 2
ANNUAL INCREMENTS
FACTORY EMPLOYEES
The maximum annual increment will be 3% of the salary applicable at the time the increment will falls due.
a)  Employees who have not absented themselves without pay on any day of the year under consideration or up to a maximum 
of 03days will be entitled to the full 3%.
b)  Employees who have absented themselves for more than 03 days without pay and less than 5 days, will be entitled to 1.5% 
of the salary by way of annual increment.
c)   Employees who have absented themselves for more than 05 da ys but less than 09 days without pay will be entitled to 
0.5% of the salary by way of an annual increment.
d)   Employees who have absented themselves more than nine (09) days without pay shall not be entitled to any increment.
The method of computation of annual increments referred to above shall be without prejudice to the employer's right to take 
disciplinary action on account of unsatisfactory attendance of an employee.
SCHEDULE 3
OPERATING PROCEDURE/ WORK SCHEDULE
Attachment: 01 (Operation procedures & work schedules)
All ancillary operations as carried out present must be continued.
 
. All sections mentioned below will operate in all three shifts and if necessary, in weekends too.
 . All operators should maintain the required records relevant to the production that they engaged as instructed  by the 
Section Head.
 . As & when necessary, pervious shift operators should do overtime to cover the absenteeism in the following shift.
1) Casting
 i) Servicing and cleaning of all machines, mould and ﬁ  ttings of mould
 ii) Conduct mould changes & trim die changes when necessary in  any shift
 iii) Cleaning of ﬂ  oor area, front & back side of the machine, outside of the electrical panels, CCS unit, ingot lifting 
system & all the visible parts connected with the operation at the end of each shift
 iv) Drossing of respective pots when necessary
 v) Production recording, check lists & job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly
 vi) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance pe ople for major breakdowns & machine maintenance 
work

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 18A
 vii) Only good production will be considered for the minimum t arget and rejected grids will not be considered as an 
output.
 viii) When it is required to do spraying, operator has to do f ull spray on both sides of the mould
 ix)  Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air, LPG lines and heaters when leaving for breaks and at 
the end of the shift 
2) Paste Mixing
 i) Cleaning of ﬂ  oor area, front & back side of the machine, outside of the electrical panels & all the visible parts 
connected with the operation at the end of each shift
 ii) Wash machine before closing the shift
 iii) Cleaning of sump and clean scrap as at present.
 iv) Servicing and greasing of machines.
 v) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance peo ple for major breakdowns & machine maintenance 
work
 vi) Conduct routine maintenance works of the machinery
 vii)  Production recording & job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly
 Viii)  Do the quality checks recommended by the technical depa rtment
 ix)  Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air, LPG lines and heaters when leaving for breaks and at 
the end of the shift
3) Pasting
 i)  Cleaning of ﬂ  oor area, front & back side of the machine, outside of the electrical panels & all the visible parts 
connected with the operation at the end of each shift
 ii) Wash & remove paste from all the machinery & machine parts  before closing the last shift or negative positive 
type change in between.
 iii) Cleaning of sump and clean scrap as at present.
 iv)  Servicing and greasing of machines as per the current pra ctice.
 v)  Changing of ﬁ  lter cartridge and pasting belts as per current practice.
 vi)  Production recording & job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly.
 vii)  Counting & recording of scrap.
 viii)  Make sure the pasted panel skid move to a curing chambe r immediately after ﬁ lling that skid
 ix)  Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance p eople for major breakdowns & machine maintenance 
work
 x)  Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air, LPG lines and heaters when leaving for breaks and at 
the end of the shift
 xi) Checking & record of quality parameters as per the work in structions.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 19A
4)  Oxide Mill
 i)  Cleaning of ﬂ  oor area, front & back side of the machine, outside of the electrical panels, chiller unit, ingot lifting 
system & all the visible parts connected with the operation at the end of each shift
 ii)  Changing of ﬁ  lter bags
 iii)  Carrying out routine maintenance of the Mill
 iv)  Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance p eople for major breakdowns & machine maintenance 
work
 V)  Production recording & job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly
 vi)  Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air, LPG lines and heaters when leaving for breaks and at 
the end of the shift
5) Tank Formation
 i)  Cleaning of formation Tanks regularly and replacing format ion bars.
 ii)  All scrap to be collected and weighted and sent to Lead R ecovery.
 iii)  Production recording job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly
 iv) Keeping Formation Department ﬂ  oor and drains clean,
 v) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance peo ple for major breakdowns and machine 
maintenance work.
 vi) Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air, LPG lines and heaters when leavig for breaks and 
at the end of the shift    
                         
6. Plate Cutting.– 
i) 12 hour working system will continue when necessary with ove rtime.
 ii) Cleaning of front and back side of the machine, outside of the electrical panels, dust collection system of the 
machine, ﬂ oor area and ﬁ lter bags.
 iii) Assist to counting and recording of scrap.
 iv) Production recording and job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly.
 v) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance peo ple for major breakdowns and machine 
maintenance work.
 vi) Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air and heaters when leaving for breaks and at the end 
of the shift.
7.  BM Stacker.–  
 i) Cleaning of front and back side of the machine, outside of the electrical panels, dust collection system of the 
machine, ﬂ oor area and ﬁ lter bags
 ii) Assist to counting and recording of scrap.
 iii) Production recording and job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly.
 vi) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance pe ople for major breakdowns and machine 
maintenance work.
 v) Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air and heaters when leaving for breaks and at the end 
of the shift.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 20A
 8. Manual Eveloping.– 
 i) 12 hour working system will continue when necessary even in  weekends with overtime.
 ii) Cleaning of front and back side of the machine, outside of  the electrical panels, dust collection 
system of the machine, ﬂ oor area and ﬁ lter bags.
 iii) Assist to counting and recording of scrap.
 vi) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance pe ople for major breakdowns and 
machine maintenance work.
 v) Production recording and job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly.
 vi) Turn oﬀ   unwanted electrical appliances, equipment, vessels etc. when leaving for breaks and at the 
end of the shift.
 9. Manual Group Stacking.– 
 i) 12 hour working system will continue when necessary
 ii) Cleaning of group making station, outside of the electrica l panels, outside of dust collection system 
at the end of each shift.
 iii) Assist to counting and recording of scrap.
 iv) Production recording and job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly.
 v) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance peo ple for major breakdowns and 
machine maintenance work.
 vi) Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air and heaters when leaving for breaks and 
at the end of the shift.
 10. Assembly Lines.– 
 i) Servicing and greasing of machines and pitch pots.
 ii) Cleaning of ﬂ  oor area, front and back side of the machines, outside of the electrical panels, and all 
the visible parts connected with the operation at the end of each shift.
 iii) Assist to counting and recording of scrap.
 vi) Production recording and job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly.
 vi) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance pe ople for major breakdowns and 
machine maintenance work.
 vi) Mould changes need to be cariied out at any time and any s hift (starting at the night shift only) as 
per the production requirement
 vii) Operators need to complete the minimum target or attempt to complete the minimum target by 
doing production and staying in the line in whole shift other than a line change.
  For example: Pump change or mould cleaning
 viii) If any station in the assemble line stop due to any issu e in the begining or middle of the shift, 
management has the right to continue the other station or engage the operators for some other work 
or to another line at the time of operators do not involve directly to the repair of the machine.
 ix) All rework batteries generated  in a particular shift has  to be completed within  the same shift..
 x) Only goood batteries will be considerd for the minmum targe t and rejected batteries will not be 
considered as an output.
 xi) COS operators should assist to recover Lead in damage grou ps.
 xii) Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air, LPG lines and heaters when leaving for 
breaks and at the end of the shift.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 21A
11. Jar Formation Finishing Line.– 
 i) 12 hours working system will continue when necessary.
 ii) Servicing and greasing of machines.
 iii) Washing and Cleaning of machines, cleaning of outside of the electrical panels and ﬂ oor area at 
the end of each shift.
 iv) Assist to counting and recording of scrap.
 v) Production recording and job cards need to be ﬁ  lled properly.
 vi) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance pe ople for major breakdowns and 
machine maintenance work.
 vii) Type changes need to be carried out at any time and any s hift as per the production requirement
 viii) If any station in the ﬁ  nishing line stop due to any issue in the begining or middle o f the shift, 
management has right to continue the other stations or engage the operators  for some  other work 
or to another  line at the time of Operators do not involve directly to the repair of the machine.
 ix) All network batteries generated in a particular shift has to be completed within the same shift.
 x) Only good batteries will be considered for the minimum targ et and reject or rework batteries will 
not be considered as an output.
 xi) Rework batteries rejected from  packing line should not be  taken for the output of the ﬁ nishing line 
and those batteries need to be ﬁ nished as an addition to the norm.
 xii) Finishing line operators need to bring the input material s and charged batteries to the line and output 
product has to be stored in identiﬁ ed places. (provided required facilities)
 xiii) Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air and other electrical appliances
 12. Lead Recovery.– 
 i) Weigh tapped out lead
 ii) Operate eﬄ   uent pumps
 iii) Servicing and greasing of machines, bag house and fan hou se with the assistance of maintenance 
people when they required assistance.
 iv) Attending to ﬁ  lter house when ﬁ lter house operators are absent 
 v) Changing of ﬁ  lter bags
 vi) Attend to correct minor breakdowns and help maintenance people for major breadowns and machine 
maintenance work when necessary.
 vii) Turn oﬀ   unwanted lights, suction systems, compressed air and other electrical appliances.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 22A
 
SCHEDULE 4
Attachment: 02 (production Targets)
PRODUCTION TARGETS
                         
   1 .  LEAD RECOVERY .– 
 i) 10 charges per day.
 ii) One charge should be maximum 900 kg of scrap
 iii) Charge bucket will contain single item or mix of diﬀ  erent leaded scrap such as dross, fume, plates, 
etc.
 iv) Two 10 Kg fume bags has to add in the middle of each charg e.
 v) All additives charging quantity and the charging sequence s hould be as per the work instructions 
given by the company and the company has the right to change these things as per the requirement..
 vi) Charge melting and process timing should be as per the wor k instructions given by the company 
and the company has the right to change these times as per the requirement.
 vii) Separate mould with higher volume will be provided for sl ag unloading.
 Process Timing
 Charge loading scrap, ﬂ  ux & cast iron - 34 minutes**
 Unloading (1 Lead mould + 1 Slag mounld) - 20 minutes
 Unloading (1 Lead mould + 2 Slag mould) - 25 minutes
 Unloading (1 Lead mould + 3 Slag mould) - 30 minutes
 ** Sequence and timing of ﬂ  ux and cast iron will be as per the work  institutions
   Allow Blending 
 i) Alloy blending will be a continuous operation and will be o perated as per the current practice and 
when necessary in weekends.
 ii) One 10 Ton pot has to be unloaded by the furnace operators  in the second shift, Otherwise operation 
will be done as per the current practice.
 iii) Minumum blend quantity for drossing should be 9000 Kg

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 23A
 
 2.1 CASTING
  Casting Production Schedule 
Type Minimum Target per shift
TR 2.1 5100
TR 2.1 (End lug) (ER 2.1) 5100
TR 1.6 5350
TR 1.6 (End lug) (ER 1.6) 5350
NS 1.7 5350
NS 1.3 5350
929 5250
1.5 CVN 5350
1.5 X - STA 5500
1.2 F 5750
1.2 X 6000
ON 1.7 5350
ON 1.7 (End lug) 5350
ON 1.3 5350
ON 1.3 (End lug) 5350
TP 1.5 Will be decided at the time of 
procductionTP 1.3
SL 2.8
5100
(This will be further 
discussed at the
time of production)
  Casting Mould Change
 
 i) Readily available mould change need to be completed within 2 hours
 ii) Mould change & Trim die change need to be completed within  4 hours
 iii) One helper will be provided during the trim die changing time.
 iv) Mould or trim die change can be done in any time and any s hift including weekends
 2.2 OXIDE MILL
 
 i) One operator will operate two oxide mills when necessary.
 ii) One operator will operate one Cylinder casting machine at a time.
 iii) Production quantity of cylinder casting & Lead oxide will  depend on the machine capacity.
 iv) Cylinder casting will be operated in all three shifts in w eek days and week ends.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 24A
 2.3 PASTE MIXING
 
 i) One operator will be provided for the mixer operation & PRS  operation.
 ii) 7
1/2 mix per shift (Mix will contain 1120 Kg of Oxide)
 iii) Sump paste should add for all negative mix
 iv) Directly adding 50 Kg of paste to the mixer 
 v) Operation, Cleaning & maintenance of PRS system
 2.4 PASTING
 
 i) 7.5 batches per shift.
 ii) Both bigger and small type will be producing in each shift  depending on the requirement as per the 
current practice.
  Pasting belt change
  1/2 mix will be reduced for changing of pasting belt
Bigger Plate Types Small Plate Types
TR 2.1 NS 1.7
TR 2.1 end lug NS 1.3
TR 1.6 1.2 F
TR 1.6 (End lug) (ER 1.6) TP 1.5
ON 1.7 TP 1.3
ON 1.7 end lug
ON 1.3
ON 1.3 end lug
929
1.5
1.2 X
SL 2.8
 iii) 3 Operators and 2 Helpers per shift for production. Only one permanent employee who is allocated 
to the previous shift in pasting operation is willing to do ove rtime to cover the absenteeism of 
another shift, can be allowed to do so during working days instead of an additional helper given.
  Production target should be changed as per the allocated pers onnel. Production will be done as per 
the agreed norms during the weekend with 3 Operators and 2 Helpers.
 2.5 TANK FORMATION
 
  One person will load 45 tanks and unload both - ve and + ve i ncluding week ends.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 25A
3.0 ASSEMBLY SECTION
3.1 HAND CASTING
Lead Inserts small 86 or big 128
Burning Strips 600 Kgs
Flag small 55 Kgs
Flag medium 72 Kgs
Flag L/R 92 Kgs
L-lug 77 Kgs
50 end straps 83 Kgs
60 end straps 72 Kgs
100 end straps 100 Kgs
40 end straps 33 Kgs
120 end straps 116 Kgs
120 inter strap 83 Kgs
3.2 PLATE CUTTING
 i) 60,000 plates per shift (6667 plates per hour)
 ii) 2 operators to operate the machine
 iii) 2 helpers will be provided for brushing & unloading
 iv) ** Provided pasted panel skids brought near the machine an d cut plates will be removed from the machine
 v) One hour will be taken for interchanging the cutting head o f Plate Cutting Machine No. 2
 vi) No production loss for type changes
 vii) Manpower employees should be allocated at the time of per manent employees get absent from work and such 
instances, agreed production targets should be given without an y reduction. Allocated Manpower employees 
should be knowledgeable persons about the production process and this is valid only at the times of absenteeism 
of allocated permanent employees.
3.2.1 BM STACKER
Bigger Types -  23,500 enveloped plates per shift
Small Types -  23,500 enveloped plates per shift
 i) 03 Operators per shift
 ii) 1 helper will be given to unload the additional groups int o the boxes. This helper will be the additional helper 
given to the COS operation.
 iii) In case of adding or removing of plates and glass mats fr om the group, extra helper will be provided to do the 
work.
 iv)  Manpower employees hould be allocated at the time of permanent employee get absent from work OR not fulﬁ ll 
the required cadre for the operation of any shift and such instances, 1/3 of agreed  production target of a permanent 
employee should be given on behalf of the said allocated manpower employee. This is valid only at the times of 
absenteeism of allocated permanent employees at the BM Stacker.
Type change
Type change has to be done within 2 hour.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 26A
3.2.2 MANUAL ENVELOPIN MACHINE
 i) 11,000 enveloped bigger plates per shift in both PE envelop e and (PE+GM) envelope
 ii) 11,000 enveloped small plates per shift in both PE envelop e and (PE+GM) envelope
 iii) 1 operator and 1 helper will be provided
 iv) Input materials and output materials has to be handle by t he operator & helper
3.2.3 MANUAL GROUP STACKING
Enveloped plates with separate glass mat  -  3440 enveloped pla tes per operator per Shift*
PE+ Glass mat - 4 operators will cover the line requirement of one shift. A helper will be 
provided for unloading of groups.
 i) *Number of enveloped plates only considered.
 ii) Number of non-enveloped plates can be varied as per the de sign of the group.(Forward, equal or reverse ratio)
 iii) Input & output material has to handle as per the current practice.
3.3 MANUAL ASSEMBLY LINE
With 9 operators & 1 helper for unloading
Single line 10 men and double line 18 men
NS 40 Z - 264
NS 40 ZL - 264
NS 60 - 260
NS 60 L - 260
NS 60 B - 260
N 100 - 165 + 10 = 175
N 120 P/P - 149 +5 = 154
145 F SIR - 145 (140 + 5)
N 150 - 145 (140 + 5)
N 200 - 105
Single line 11 men and double line 19 men
N 50 z - 297
N 50 L - 297
N 50 ZL - 297
NS 70 - 290
NS 70 L - 290
N 70 Z - 253
N 70 ZL - 253
95 D 31 R - 253
95 D 31 L - 253
80D - 290

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 27A
3.4 COS ASSEMBLY LINE
   Maintenance Free & Dry Charge Batteries
B20 Family - 674 (With 8 employees) + 2 helpers
B24 Family - 649 (with 8 employees) + 2 helpers
D23 Family - 580 (with 8 employees) + 2 helpers
D26 Family - 616 (with 8 employees) + 2 helpers
D31 Family - 546 (with 8 employees) + 2 helpers
N100 Family - 497 (with 9 employees) + 1 helper
N120 Family - 412 (with 9 employees) + 1 helper
N150 Family - 360 (with 9 employees) + 1 helper
N200 Family - 225 (with 9 employees ) + 1 helper
 i) Number of plates assembled in each family will be varied de pending on design and customer requirement and if 
so, should be discussed & proceed.
 ii) Required packing materials need to be put by the boxing op erator depending on the design of the battery
COS Assembly line change
 i)  Type change has to be done within 2 hours
 ii)  If any station not doing a change while other stations su bjected to change, that particular station has to produce its 
full output without having a production loss provided that station given suﬃ  cient input material
 iii)  Operators need to complete the minimum target or attempt to complete the minimum target by doing production 
& staying in the line in whole shift in any stoppage other than a type change.
  For example: Pump changes, Mould cleaning and element changes  by pulling out the mould Etc.
COS line Manpower Chart
Station Manpower
Up to 95 D N100 & above
COS machine 2 Operators 2 Operators
Boxing 2 Operators 2 Operators
Welding 1 Operator 1 Operator
Heat Sealing 1 Operator 1 Operator
Pole Burning 1 Operator 1 Operator
Leak testing + Bar Coding + 
Unloading
1 Operator + 1 Helper 1 Operator + 1 Helper
Extra 1 Helper** 1 Operator

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 28A
**This helper will bring the stacked groups from group storage area to near the COS machine and he will help the boxing 
operator when necessary and box the extra groups produced in BM stacker.
 iv)  In the absence of a permanent employee allocated to COS l ine 2, if there is no permanent employee to cover his 
absenteeism, manpower employee who nominated to Barcode Station should be allocated for that work. This 
agreement should be valid from B20 to D31 battery production.
 v)  In the absence of permanent employees allocated to COS Lin e 1, if there is no permanent employee to cover 
his absenteeism, two manpower employees who nominated to bar co de station and welding station should be 
allocated for that work. This agreement should be valid to entire range produced in COS Line 1.
 vi)  At the time of partially production is scheduled at COS L ine 1 and Line 2 and in the absence of required allocated 
cadre to give the agreed total target. At the time full line production scheduled at COS Line 1 and 2 in the absence 
of required allocated cadre, production target should be given proportionately as per the availability of employees.
4.0 JAR FORMATION FINISHING LINE
  Up to D31 family    -  1193 batteries per 12 hour shift
      (820 batteries per shift)
Station Manpower
Battery loading & magic eye ﬁ xing 1 Helper
Acid leveling & level checking 1 Operator
Vent plug ﬁ xing 1 Helper
Battery washing & cleaning 1 Helper
Terminal brushing 1 Operator
HRD, ﬁ lter disc & clip ﬁ xing 1 Operator
Battery Unloading 1 Helper

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 29A
  From N100 to N200 family   -  1193 batteries per 12 hour shif t 
        (820 batteries per shift)
Station Manpower
Battery loading & magic eye ﬁ xing 2 Helpers
Acid leveling & level checking 1 Operator
Vent plug ﬁ xing 1 Helper
Battery washing & cleaning 1 Helper
Terminal brushing 1 Operator
HRD, ﬁ lter disc & clip ﬁ xing 1 Operator
Battery Unloading 2 Helpers
4.1   Packing
  From B20 family to N 200 family     - 1193 batteries per 12 h our shift
        (820 batteries per shift)
SCHEDULE 5
Attachment: 03- Production incentive bonus
Assembly Eﬃ  ciency Monthly Payment (Rs.) Other
100% 9500.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
99% 9200.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
98% 8900.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
97% 8600.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
96% 8300.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
95% 8000.00 With ⅓ of basic salary

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 30A
94% 7700.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
93% 7500.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
92% 7300.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
91% 7100.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
90% 6900,00 With ⅓ of basic salary
89% 6700.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
88% 6500.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
87% 6300.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
86% 6100.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
85% 5900,00 With ⅓ of basic salary
Below 85% 5000.00 With ⅓ of basic salary
01).  All permanent employees covered by the collective agreement will be paid this incentive payment based on the monthly 
eﬃ  ciency of the Assembly Section.
02).  Monthly eﬃ  ciency % will be calculated based on the actual battery production against the agreed production norms in 
the collective agreement.
03).  Only good batteries will be considered as the actual production for the eﬃ  ciency calculation.
04).  This will be done by analyzing all the planned shifts in week days and agreed work plan of weekends.
05).  Production department is supposed to provide the eﬃ   ciency details to HR, Finance & other relevant departments 
including Union.
06).  Eﬃ  ciency calculation will be done by the Section Head of Assemb ly section and need to be approved by the DGM- 
Manufacturing.
07).  This will be monthly assembly eﬃ  ciency details given to the Top Management and the Board of Directors.
08).  Eﬃ  ciency calculation method and the details will be transparent to all.
09).  Following are some of the examples to cause eﬃ  ciency losses.
  i) Employee absenteeism
  ii) Machine breakdowns
 iii) Power failures
 iv)  Material shortages
  v) Losses due to mould changes
 vi)  Any other reason which causes, fail to achieve the norms of the collective agreement
10).  Daily & month to date eﬃ  ciencies will be displayed in the assembly department.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 31A
Following will not be considered for eﬃ  ciency calculation
 • Company declared holidays such as new year, annual trip etc.  
 •  Friday half day when the following day (Saturday) becomes a  Poya day.
 • Planned maintenance work.
SCHEDULE 6
Attachment: 04 (No pay deductions from Bonus)
No. of No pay days Deduction percentage
6 days 1%
7 days 2%
8 days 3%
9 days 4%
10 days 5%
11 days 6%
12 days 7%
13 days 8%
14 days 9%
15 days 10%
16 days 15%
17 days 20%
18 days 25%
19 days 30%
20 days 50%
21 days 60%
22 days 70%
23 days 80%
24 days 90%
25 days 100%
  • Deduction will be calculated based on 1 1/2 months bonus. P erformance related bonus is not considered.
  •  Employee will be given the right to appeal if the no pay o ccurred due to a critical illness or a fair & justiﬁ able reason  
  beyond employee's control.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2024'01'06
Pൺඋඍ I: Sൾർ. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA  – 06.01.2024
 32A
  It witness wheteof the parties hereunto sit their hands on th is 09th of June Tow Thousand Twenty Three.
 For and on behalf of
          For and on behalf of
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
EOG 01- 0051