

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
wxl 2"141 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2019'09'12
No. 2,141 -  THURSDAY , SEPTEMBER  12, 2019
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —   
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... 994
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... —
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
            PAGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 995
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
993 -
N.B.—    Part III  of the Gazette No.2,140 of 06.09.2019 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th October, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th September, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
G
ANGANI LIYANAGE,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
B 81560 - 5,403 (09/2019)
Note.– Penal Code (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of August 30, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
994
Appointments, &c., by the Governors
GOVERNOR’S OFFICE - NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE
Appointments by the Honourable Governor 
in the North Western Province under the section 32 (1) in the (IV) 
part of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987
No. Name/ Service/ Class Appointed Post/ Working Place/ Effective Date
01 Mr. I. M. I. Ilangakoon 
SLAS Class I
For the Acting post of Commissioner of Local Government of the Department of 
Local Government in addition to regular post with effect in immediate effect in 
terms of the letter dated 09.08.2018
02 Mr. I. M. I. Ilangakoon 
SLAS Class I
For the post of Commissioner of Local Government of the Department of Local 
Government with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 04.10.2015
03 Mr. K. M. H. S. K. Jayalath 
SLAS Class I
For the post of Senior Assistant Secretary of the Chief Ministry in North Western 
Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 04.10.2018
04 Mrs. N. M. J. Fernando 
SLAS Class I
For the post of Provincial Social Service Director of Department of Provincial 
Social Service in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the 
letter dated 26.10.2018
05 Mrs. Niluka K. Jayawardhana
SLAS Class I
For the Post of Provincial Small Industries Director of Department of Provincial 
Small Industries in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the 
letter dated 26.10.2018
06 Mr. T. B. Wickramasinghe
SLAS Special Class
For the Post of Deputy Chief Secretary (Training) of the Chief Secretariat in North 
Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 02.11.2018 
07 Mrs. W. D. K. Wehella
SLAS Special Class
For the post of Secretary of the Ministry of Health Indigenous Medicine, Social 
Welfare, Probation & Child Care, Women's Affairs and Council Affairs in North 
Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 12.11.2018
08 Mr. R. A. S. Jayathilake
SLAS Special Class
For the post of Deputy Chief Secretary (Administration) of the Chief Secretariat in 
North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 16.11.2018
09 Mrs. Niluka K. Jayawardhana
SLAS Class I
For the Acting post of Provincial Director of Department of Provincial Textile in 
North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 09.11.2018
10 Mr. R. M. N. Premasiri
SLAS Class I
For the Post of Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services of 
the Department of Provincial Probation and Child Care Services in North Western 
Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 09.11.2018
11 Mr. D. M. C. K. Dissanayake
SLAS Class I 
For the post of Provincial Commissioner of Co-operative Development of the 
Department of Provincial Co-operative Development in North Western Province 
with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 26.12.2018
12 Mr. M. A. B. C. Aloka Bandara
SLAS Class I 
For the post of Provincial Land Commissioner of the Department of Provincial 
Land Commissioner in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of 
the letter dated 26.12.2018
13 Miss. U. M. B. Jeyanthila
SLEAS Class I
For the Acting Post of Director of Zonal Education of the Zonal Education Ofﬁ ce, 
Nikaweratiya in addition to regular post with immediate effect in terms of the letter 
dated 21.06.2018
N. P. M. K
ARIYAWASAM,
Secretary to the Governor.
North Western Province,
Kurunegala.
09-373

<!-- page 3 -->

995 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
required qualiﬁ cations speciﬁ ed in this noti ﬁ cation to ﬁ ll the vacancies in Grade III of Central Provincial Public             
Management Assistants’ Service. The examination will be held only in Kandy city or Kandy, Matale and Nuwara 
Eliya based on number of applicants and as decided by the Secretary to Central Provincial Public Service Commission. 
Hence, the city you wish to sit for the examination and their code number should be mentioned in the application as 
follows :
Town Code Number
Kandy 01
Matale 02
Nuwara - Eliya 03
2.0 Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications will be selected on merit, on the results of a written                                        
examination to be conducted by the Secretary to Central Provincial Public Service Commission and on the basis of 
district  population ratio, to the posts in the Grade III of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service. 
The selected applicants will be assigned to vacancies in the difﬁ cult service stations in the Central Province.
3.0 (a)  Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of appointments will be determined by the Appointing 
Authority. Further, the Central Provincial Public Service Commission reserves the right to refrain from ﬁ lling 
some or all of the vacancies.
(b) Selected candidates will be appointed to Grade III Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service
subject to general conditions governing the appointments to the Central Provincial Public Service, on terms
and conditions set out in the Minute of Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service published
in the Gazette Extraordinary of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1869/4 dated 30.06.2014,                          
amendment already made and will be made thereto in due course to the said service minute, and the provisions
of the Establishments Code and Financial Regulations.
(c) Selected candidates should serve minimum of 05 years in the service station of your ﬁ rst appointment.                   
However, the appointing authority has the authority to transfer an ofﬁ cer before the end of the prescribed period
for a speciﬁ c reason as determined by the appointing authority.
(d) This appointment is subject to a probation period of three years. The First Ef ﬁ ciency Bar Examination shall be
passed by the ofﬁ cer within a period of 03 years after recruiting to Grade III of the Central Provincial Public
Management Assistants’ Service as prescribed in the Service Minute.
(e) Prescribed ofﬁ  cial language pro ﬁ ciency shall be obtained within 05 years of joining the service as per Public
Administration Circular 01/2014 and consequent circulars.
4.0 Salary.– As per Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016  dated 25.02.2016, monthly salary scale entitled to Grade 
III, II and I of the Central Provincial Public Management Assistants’ Service is 
Rs. 28,940 - 10 x 300 – 11 x 350 - 10 x 560 - 10 x 660 - 47,990/-. (MN 2- 2016) 
This salary scale is entitled from 01.01.2020, should gain promotion to Grade II to be beyond the salary step of                   
Rs. 31,940/- and Grade I to be beyond the salary step of Rs. 35,790/-
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION OF CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Central Provincial Public 
Management Assistants’ Service - 2016(2019)
1.0 Applications are called from both male and female candidates who residing within Central Province and possess 

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
996
5.0 This post is permanent. Pension for the of ﬁ cers appointed to Grade III of Central Provincial Public Management 
Assistants’ Service will be subjected to the policy decision taken by the government, regarding the pension scheme 
in future.
6.0 Qualiﬁ cations:– Following qualiﬁ cations are applicable for the recruitment to Grade III of Central Provincial Public 
Management Assistants’ Service :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should be of an excellent character,
(c)  Applicant should not be a person, of an offender from a Court under Penal Code,
(d) Should possess the adequate physical and mental ﬁ tness required to serve in any area of Central Province and
discharge duties of the post ,
(e) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications
(27.09.2019),
(f) Should have ful ﬁ lled the following educational quali ﬁ cations. Only certiﬁ cates issued by the department of
examination will be considered to ascertain the qualiﬁ cations of the candidate,
(i) Shall have passed six (06) subjects with credit passes for four (04) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/
English language and Mathematics at the G.C.E.  (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting;
and
(ii) Shall have passed all the subjects in G.C.E.  (Advanced Level) examination at one sitting (except the
General paper and General English).
Note. – It is sufﬁ 
cient to have passed 03 subjects under the old syllabus which was consisted of 04 subjects.
N. B:– It is compulsory to have satisﬁ ed all qualiﬁ cations prescribed for the post by candidates on or before 27.09.2019.
7.0 (a) Recruitment to the service will strictly be on a representative basis. A ﬁ xed number of vacancies will be set 
apart for each district of Central Province in proportion to its population. The Central Provincial Public Service 
Commission will make the ﬁ nal decision on how to ﬁ ll the vacancies. 
(i) If the vacancies so allocated to a particular district cannot be ﬁ lled by the applicants who have applied
for that particular district and have satisﬁ ed the qualiﬁ cations, number of vacancies will be redistributed 
among the adjoining districts in proportion to population of such districts.
(ii) If the total number of vacancies to be ﬁ lled within Central Province is few and the district population
basis cannot be applied, selection will be made on the order of merit.
(iii) Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less than the number of
vacancies available in a district, the district population basis shall not be applied for the selection.
(b) Eligibility for inclusion in a district of Central Province:
Following requirements should have been fulﬁ lled by a candidate to select for the vacancies in any district of
Central Province,
(i) The candidate shall have a permanent resident of the district of Central Province at least for three
continuous years within the ﬁ 
ve (05) years immediately preceding the last date to fulﬁ ll the eligibility
qualiﬁ cations for the examination.
Note :  In order to con ﬁ rm the residence of the candidate who is selected from the written examination, is bound to forward  
following documents, at the interview or any time inquired :
(i) Extracts from electoral registers con ﬁ rming the residence in continues three (03) years period and the                
certiﬁ cate of residence issued by Grama Niladari duly counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.

<!-- page 5 -->

997 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
8.0 Three percent (3%) of the existing number of vacancies will be reserved for persons with disabilities. Only 3% of the 
persons with disabilities who secure highest marks in the examination and qualify will be selected for appointments. 
The minimum level of aggregate marks candidates should score to be selected for appointment is 50%. A candidate 
selected for an appointment will be referred to a Special Medical Board and, by a report obtained from a medical 
specialist; he/she should establish the disablement and the fact that, it does not hinder performance of duties of the 
respective post.
Note :     The applicant should mention in the application that he/she applies under disabled rehabilitation conditions. A                
person who is not disabled should not imply himself/ herself as a disabled person.
9.0 Scheme of the examination :
(a) The examination will consist of two papers. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media.
Candidates will not be allowed to change language medium applied initially.
Subjects Marks Duration 
Language Proﬁ ciency 100 2 ½ hours 
Aptitude 100 01 hour 
Language Proﬁ ciency   –    This paper will consist of subject related questions designed to test the candidates’ ability 
of expression, comprehension, spellings, language and essay, drafting a given letter,               
preparing graphs and tables based on the given data, summarizing passages, expressing 
the idea of several given sentences in one sentence and use of simple grammar. All ques-
tions should be answered.
Aptitude – This paper will consist of subject related questions designed to test the candidates’ skill at
numbers, power of critical reasoning and general intelligence. This consists of 50 questions 
of Multiple Choice and Short Answer model. All questions should be answered.
Note:  (i) These papers will be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his of ﬁ cial 
duties,
(ii) Marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting and spelling mistakes in all the written question papers.
(b) Despite this being a competitive examination, candidates are expected to secure at least 40% of the marks
allocated for each subject and it is compulsory to score an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of
the examination. Appointments will strictly be made in the order of merit based on the total marks scored,
depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be ﬁ lled on the results of the competitive examination.
(c) Examination Results:– the results will be released  via the ofﬁ cial website of Central Provincial Public Service
Commission.
10.0 Penalty for furnishing false information.– The candidate should be very careful to include the correct particulars in 
the application. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, 
during, or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his/her 
knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public 
Service.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
998
11.0   Examination Fees:
A non-refundable examination fee of Rs. 600 should be credited to the Central Provincial Chief Secretary’s 
Revenue Head 20-03-02-13. This fee could be paid to any Divisional Secretary of ﬁ ce in Central Province and the 
receipt (Blue Colour) issued on applicant’s name should be ﬁ rmly afﬁ xed to the application. The application without 
a receipt will be rejected. The paid examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances. (It is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate for future reference) 
12.0
  Applications.–  Applications should be prepared in the following manner using A4 size papers :–
(i) Cages from 01 to 03 should appear on the ﬁ rst side of the page ;
(ii) Cages from 04 onwards should appear on the other pages ;
(iii) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated in English Language as
well, on both Sinhala and 
Tamil application forms,
(iv) When mentioning the name of the candidate at the 1.1 of the application, the last part of the full name
of the applicant should be mentioned ﬁ rst and the initials of the names belong to the surname and the
initials of the other parts of the name should be mentioned next.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in accordance with the specimen will be rejected without any notice. 
Applications of those who have not paid examination fees on or before due date will also be rejected. Candidates should be 
responsible for any loss incurred by them due to incompleteness of applications. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the completed application form. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application is conform to the 
specimen given in the examination notice. Otherwise, the application could be rejected.  Receipt of applications shall not 
be acknowledged. 
Applications not conform to specimen, incomplete and for which Examination fee is not paid by the due 
date will be rejected without any notice. No complain will be taken into consideration in relation to loosing an application 
in posting or being late.
N. B. -  As the appointments are issued to the selected candidates strictly by the name with initials mentioned in the                
application, the name should be correctly written in the application. It shall not be allowed to change the name or 
include a part in the name or remove a part at the issuance of appointments.
12.1.  All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees and forwarded their applications on or before the 
prescribed date will be allowed to sit the competitive examination, by the Secretary to Central Provincial Public 
Service Commission, on the presumption that only those who possess quali ﬁ cations, indicated in the Gazette 
notiﬁ cation have forwarded their applications. Issuing of an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive 
examination does not mean that the candidates’ eligibility for the examination and the eligibility for the post 
has been accepted. If it is found at the interview that the applicant does not possess the required qualiﬁ cations 
prescribed in the  gazette notiﬁ cation, his or her candidature will be cancelled.
12.2.  The caption “Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Central Provincial Public                    
Management Assistants’ Service - 2019” and the Code number of administration District should be clearly 
indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
12.3.  The duly perfected applications for the examination should be sent by Registered Post to reach below mentioned 
address on or before 27.09 2019.
      “Secretary, 
Central Provincial Public Service Commission, 
No. 244, Katugastota Road,
Kandy”

<!-- page 7 -->

999 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
13.0 Sitting the Examination. – A notiﬁ cation will be published in the ofﬁ cial website of Central Provincial Public Service 
Commission as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Secretary to Central Provincial Public 
Service Commission in the manner speciﬁ ed in the notice.  Here it would be advised to inquire from the Secretary 
to Central Provincial Public Service Commission with the photocopies of the application form and the cash receipt 
kept at your possession, receipt of registration in hand and mentioning the name of the Examination applied for, full 
name, NIC No. and address. It would be advisable to fax a letter of request to the Secretary to Central Provincial 
Public Service Commission along with a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
Candidates shall get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the 
examination hall on the ﬁ rst day of examination. Candidates shall not be allowed to sit the examination without such 
admission card.
The signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School, Justice of the peace, 
Commissioner of Oaths, Notary Public, 
Attorney-at-Law or an of ﬁ cer who holds tertiary or senior level as per                              
P.A. Circular No 03/2016 in a permanent post in Government or Provincial Public Service. 
14.0 Identity of the candidates :
Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor. For 
this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted.
I. An identity card issued by the Department for Registration of Persons,
II. A valid passport,
III. A valid driving license .
15.0 Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Secretary to Central Provincial Public Service 
Commission for the purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by the Secretary to Central Provincial Public Service Commission for violation of these rules and regulations.
16.0
 Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to Central Provincial Public Service Commission. 
All candidates are bound to comply with the general examination rules published in the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
17.0 This noti ﬁ cation and the application form can also be downloaded on the ofﬁ cial website of the Central Provincial 
Public Service Commission - www.psc.cp.gov.lk 
18.0
  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this examination notiﬁ cation, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
M.G.A. THILAKARATNE,
Secretary,
Public Service Commission,
Central Provincial Council
09th of September 2019   
Central Provincial Public Service Commission 
No. 244, Katugastota Road, 
Kandy
Fax No. – 081-2213082.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
1000
(For ofﬁ ce use only)       
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF CENTRAL PROVINCIAL PUBLIC MANAGEMENT 
ASSISTANTS’ SERVICE - 2016(2019)
Medium Applied for: Town applied to sit for examination and its code number:
Sinhala  - S 
Tamil - T 
English  - E 
(Indicate the relevant code in the cage) 
        (Indicate the relevant code in the cage) 
Are you sitting this examination under the conditions laid down in para 8.0 of the gazette notiﬁ cation which are relevant to 
disability? (Candidates may refer para 8.0 of the noti ﬁ cation carefully before ﬁ lling this section since only the differently 
able candidates are required to mention “Yes” in this part)
Yes-1
No.–2
(Indicate the number in the cage)
01. 
1.1 Name with initials at the end: ……………………………………………………. .…………
 (In English capital letters) Ex: PERERA, A.B.C. ………………………………….……….
1.2 Full Name: …………………………………………………………………………...………
(In English capital letters) …………………….……………………………………………..
1.3 Full Name: ………………………………………………………………………………….
 (In Sinhala/Tamil) ………………………………………………………………………….
1.4 National Identity Card No. 
02. 
2.1 Permanent Address: - ………………………………………………….…………….………
(In English capital letters) ……………………………………………..…………….………
2.2 Permanent Address: - ……………………………………………….…………………….…
(In Sinhala/Tamil) …………………………………………………..………………….……
2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent: - ………………………….……….………
(In English capital letters) ………………………………………………….……………….
03. 
3.1 Sex (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Male    - 0 
Female - 1  
3.2 Date of birth :  Year :  Month :  Date :
3.3 Age as at 27.09.2019:     years …………… months …………… days ……………..
Town Code denoted

<!-- page 9 -->

1001 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
3.4 Contact No. :
Mobile
Fixed 
04. 4.1  Since when you have been residing in the district? ………………………………………
4.2  Divisional Secretary’s/Assistant Government Agent’s Division: …………………………
4.3  Grama Niladhari Division: ……………………………………………………………….
05. Educational Quali ﬁ cations : - (details of the examination should be ﬁ lled based on the certi ﬁ cate issued by the                 
Department of Examinations)
5.1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination:
(Shall have passed six (06) subjects with credit passes for four (04) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/English                   
language and Mathematics at the G.C.E.  (Ordinary Level) Examination at one sitting)
Year of the Examination :
Index No :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. Language (Sinhala/Tamil/English) 6.
2. Mathematics 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.2. G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
Shall have passed all the subjects in G.C.E.  (Advanced Level) examination at one sitting (except the General paper 
and General English)
Year of the Examination :
Index No :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4. General paper
5. General English
5.3. If possessing a degree from a recognized University :
(i)
Name of the University: ……………..……..
(ii) Degree ……………..………………………
(iii) Year of Examination: ……………..……..

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.09.2019
1002
06. Other Qualiﬁ cations: ……………………………………………………………………….… …………………………
……………………………………………………………………………..………………………………………………
…………………………………………..
07. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of Law? (Indicate  in the Relevant cage)
Yes    No
(Indicate particulars, if the answer is yes)
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………
08. Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee:
(a) Ofﬁ  ce to which the payment was made: ……………………………………………
(b) Number and the date of the receipt: ………………………………………………
(c) Amount: ………………………………………………
09. Candidate’
s Certiﬁ cate :
I declare that the information stated in this application is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. Also, 
I agree to abide by the regulations of this examination, and to accept the decision of cancellation of my candidature
prior to or after examination, if disclosed that I am ineligible under the conditions of the examination.
……………………………………;
Date : ………………………  Signature of the applicant.
10. Attestation of 
Applicant’s Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………........................……. who forwards this application is personally 
known to me and he/she placed his/her signature on ……………………………………… in my presence. I also certify 
that he/she has paid the due examination fee and has attached the paid receipt.
Date: 
- …………………… ………………………….…………..; 
           Signature of Attester. 
Full name of Attester : …………………………………………………………………
Designation : …………………………………………………………………
Address : ……………………………………………………………….
(Place ofﬁ cial Stamp)
09-803
Receipt is to be afﬁ xed here so as not to be detached.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.