

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2110$52 - 2019 fmnrjdß ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'02'15
No. 2110/52 -  FRIDAY  FEBRUARY  15,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG  4389— 20  (02/2019)
SOUTHERN   PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Southern Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
COOPERATIVE  SOCIETY  STA TUTE   OF   THE   SOUTHERN   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Udalamaththa Gamage Dayawansha Ariyathilaka, Minister of Cooperative Development of the Southern Provincial Council
do hereby notify that the draft of the Cooperative Society Statute No...... of 2019 of the Southern Provincial Council
published hereunder will be presented in the Southern Provincial Council of the expiry of two weeks from the date of its
publication in this Gazette. Any person who wishes to make any representation or amendment regarding any of the provisions
of the said statute, shall forward the same to me within the said period.
U
DALAMATHTHA  G AMAGE D AY AWANSHA ARIYATHILAKA,
Minister,
Southern Provincial Ministry of Agriculture,
Agrarian Development, Irrigation, Water Supply and
Drainage, Food Supply and Distribution,
Trade and Cooperative Development.
18th January, 2019,
Office of the Minister of Agriculture, Cooperative Development,
Galle.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
2A
Draft of the Cooperative Society Precept 2019 No. …………… of the
Southern Provincial Council
A Precept, to provide ways and means to organize, to register, to supervise, to Administer, to Audit, to
provided corporative education and propagation and to develop the cooperative societies within the
Southern Provincial Council, to proclaim the written statute relating to the establishment and administering
Cooperative societies and, to provide for connected and related matters.
This precept will replace the Cooperative Act, No. 5 of 1972 amended by cooperative Act, No. 32
of 1983 and no.11 of 1992.
The Provincial Council of the Southern province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka will hereby enact as herewith.
1. This precept will be known as the Southern Provincial Council’s No…..………. of 2019
Cooperative Society Precept and will come in to effect from the date sanctioned by the Governor
of the Southern Provincial Council.
1
ST  PARAGRAPH
Registration
2. (1) It is required to appoint a Cooperative Development Commissioner and a Cooperative
Registrar for the Sothern Province.  Similarly, as may be necessary, the appointment of
Provincial Deputy Registrar and Registrars, Assistant Commissioner and a number of
Registrars may be appointed.
(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Cooperative in the Southern Provincial Council
may, by a special or general order, bestow,in part or in whole, powers vested in the
Provincial Commissioner and Registrar as per this precept, or as per the regulations
enacted in accordance with this precept, upon the Provincial Deputy Commissioner and
the Registrar or the Assistant Commissioners and the Registrars.
(3) The person who functions currently as the Provincial Cooperative Development
Commissioner or the Cooperative Development Commissioner, the person who
currently function or appointed to function within the Southern Province, should bestow
the same powers by the regulations enacted, or said to have been enacted, by this precept
as bestowed on the Cooperative society registrar and that he/she should exercise that
power.
(4) Each of those persons who have been appointed to assist the Provincial commissioner
of Cooperative should be delegated with certain specific powers of the Registrar, by
regulations enacted or said to have been enacted under this precept,as determined by
the Registrar by a special or general order made under this article and such persons so
empowered may exercise such authority.
3. Subject to provisions hereinafter included
(1) A society voluntarily organized in line with the policies and benevolent  principles of the
cooperative movement while preserving the identity and the  entrepreneurship of the said
movement with the intention of facilitating the thrift of economic,educational, social and
cultural skills of its members
                or
Short Title and the
date of activation
Appointments
and the power of
those appointed
Societies that can
be registered

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
a society comprising of societies registered as own members,established to facilitate the
activities of the societies named in paragraph (1) above could be registered under this
precept with or without the responsibility of limited liability.  However, the liability of a
society where there is membership of a society, is limited in responsibility.
(2) In a situation where the liability of the membership of a society is limited, no  member
except a registered society should hold a greater proportion than what   the share capital
regulations of the society prescribe, subject to a maximum limit   of 1/5
thof the society’s
share capital.
4. (1) (a) In a situation where the society comprise only of individual members, Unless it
comprises a minimum of 20 members, who are above 18 years of  age, who reside,
renders a service or owns immobile property within the  purview of the operational
area of the society and have the potential to avail of the services ofthe society;or
 (b) (i) In a situation where the society comprises of registered societies Unless
there are a minimum of either five societies or 50 % of thesocieties formed
for a particular trade, whichever is higher, and that there is no other society
formed for the purpose within the district:
(ii) In an instance where an Area society or an Association is formed with the
membership of registered societies, unless there are at least three  registered
societies forming an Area Society:
(c) Unless a report of recommendation is obtained from a person or institution named
by the Commissioner stating that
(i) The activities the societies intend to be engaged in are  economically
compatible;
(ii) The constitutions proposed by the societies are in accordance with this
precept and regulations prepared or considered to have been prepared under
this precept:
 (d) Unless the proposed constitutions have been ratified by the membership of the
societies at a properly summoned and constituted General meeting with regard to
their current activities:
(e) Unless the membership that signed the application for registration of the Societies
have paid in full all the membership fees and other legitimate dues  payable to the
society:
(f) Unless, in a situation where there is another society with similar entrepreneurial
intentions registered within the purview of the subject society, that registered
society has obtained consent at a General meeting of the other society, expressing
consent to register the subject society:
(g) Unless the constitution of the subject society states that, two members of the
proposed Executive committee of the society should be between eighteen and
thirty-five years of age and accordingly they have been duly elected and are
functioning as stipulated:
Conditions of
Registration

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
4A
(h) Unless the functional and financial feasibility of the proposed society has been
substantiated for the past 6 months:
(i) Unless the information prescribed for the purpose of registration, by the
Registrar,has been complied with by the subject society;
no society shall be registered under this precept.
However, the Cooperative Development Commissioner and the Registrar has discretionary power
to exempt or change the regulation concerning age, stipulated in paragraph (g) above, while
registering the subject society or society comprising of societies.
 (2) Notwithstanding what is stated in clause 1. above, in a situation where the Registrar is
not satisfied with the position of registering a subject society for whatever reason,
such a society will not be registered under this precept.
(3) In the event where an issue arises with regard to the contents of this article as to whether the
subject society has fulfilled the conditions stated in this precept for registration, the Registrar
is required to decide on such issue and thus his decision will be final.
(4) This precept permits the registration of a society, with or without, the responsibility of
LIMITED. In the case of societies that register with the responsibility of LIMITED should
carry the term LIMITED at the end their title (name), or in the alternative, the Sinhala or Tamil
term for LIMITED should be a part of their title.
5. (1) The registration procedure should be done according to a prescribed procedure in
presenting the application to registrar
(2) The application-
(a) In the case of society, where there is no registered society as a member, it should
be signed by not less than 20 persons who are eligible to sign as per article 4
paragraph (a) above.
(b) In the case of a society where there is a registered society/societies as a member/
members, it should be signed by a person duly authorized to do so on behalf of
every one of those societies.
(3) The following documents should accompany the application-
(a) Two copies of the proposed Constitution of the society
(b) A report on the feasibility of the economic activity the society intends to be engaged
in
(c) Certified copies of the minutes of the General meeting where the proposal to
apply for registration was proposed and the minutes of the General meeting where
the Constitution was approved with certified reports of attendance at those
meetings.
Application for
Registration

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(d) A certificate signed by the executive committee of the society where they certify
that the members who have signed the application have subscribed to the stated
shares of the society and that the monies so paid are lying in the custody of the
executive committee of the society.
(e) Any other information or report that the Registrar may request in relation to the
registration of the society.
6. If,in the opinion of the registrar, a particular society has acted in accordance with the rules,
regulations and provisions of this precept, the economic objectives it intends to be engaged
in are feasible, its constitution does not contradict the values and principles of the precept
and that the society has been active for at least 6 months  preceding the application for
registration, the registrar upon receiving the application may proceed to register the subject
society within 60 day, of the receipt of the application accompanied by a copy of the society’s
constitution. However, if the Registrar wishes to decline to register a particular society, he
should inform the applicant, within that 60 days period, of his inability to register that society.
Upon such rejection, the subject society may make an appeal to the Minister within 60 days
of the date of the registrar’s intimation by any person who was a signatory to the application
for registration. The Minister in turn may give a ruling on such appeal within 60 days of
the date of that appeal.
7. (1) Once a society is registered, the Registrar may issue a Certificate of Registration for
that society.
(2) The Certificate of Registration issued by the Registrar should be treated as decisive
evidence that the society has been duly registered, unless it is proved that the registration
portrayed in the registration has been cancelled subsequently.
8. (1) Any amendments to the constitution of a registered society, including the amendment
to the constitution that contains the society’s name, should be subject to the laws,
regulations and provisions of the Corporative precept.
(2) An amendment to the constitution of any registered society should not be considered
duly made unless such amendment is registered under the Corporative precept. For this
purpose, a copy of any proposed amendment  should be forwarded to the Registrar in
duplicate.
(3) Where a registered Interim constitution of a society requires an amendment,unless such
amendment is submitted with copies or reports prescribed in article  4.(1)(c) & (d) together
with information and reports requested by the Commissioner, such amendments may not
be registered.
(4) (a) If the Registrar is satisfied that the proposed amendment to the constitution of the
society is consistent with the Corporative precept, the Registrar may proceed to
register the amendment within 60 days of submission. However, if the Registrar
wishes to decline to register a particular amendment, heshould inform the
respective party, within that 60 days period, of his inability to register. Upon such
rejection, the subject society may make an appeal to the Minister within 60 days of
the date of the registrar’s intimation. The Minister, may give a ruling on an appeal,
so made, within 60 days of the date of that appeal.
(b) The procedure to be followed by the Minister in the case of appeals under (a) above
should be in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this precept.
Registration.
Evidence of
Registration.
Amending the
Constitution
of a registered
Society.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
6A
(5) While an amendment that changes the name of a society should have no impact on the
rights or obligations of that society or any member/ former member of the society, any
legal matter, by or against the society that is institute at present may be continued under
the new name.
(6) When an amendment to the Constitution of a registered society is registered by the
Registrar, he should issue a copy of that amendment certified by him to the society
concerned. The subject certificate should thereafter may be considered as conclusive
evidence that the amendment to the constitution is duly registered.
(7) The word ‘amendment’ in this article should include, preparing a new constitution or
making changes in the existing constitution.
 (8) Every constitution of a registered society sanctioned by the Corporative Development
Commissioner/ Registrar should be subject to the regulations and provisions of this
precept.
9. (1) A registered society, having obtained the prior approval of the Registrar and by a  proposal
carried by a 2/3rds majority of the members who attend and vote at a General meeting
of the society,
(a) May transfer a part or the entirety of the assets and liabilities of that society to
another registered society ; or
(b) May bifurcate the society into two or more societies.
(2) Two or more registered societies, having obtained the prior approval of the  Registrar,
may form into a single society by a resolution carried by a 2/3
rd majority of the members
who attend and vote at the general meetings of  each of those societies that desire to
merge.
 (3) ( a) With regard to sanctions obtained by a proposal of a registered society or  societies
under clause(1) and clause (2) above, the proposal should contain  all the arrangements
with regard to transfer, split or  integration of  the  concerned societies.
(b) The Commissioner and the Registrar could call for a report on the suitability of
the proposed transfer, bifurcation or the integration and the Commissioner and
the Registrar should take a decision on the proposed transfer, bifurcation or the
integration. That decision should be decisive and final on the matter.
 (c) If approval is granted to act as per clauses (1) & (2) above, the Registrar may
appoint one person or a Board comprising number of persons that he  consider as
capable of attending to the task and that person or the Board  should have powers
to accomplish the task.
 (4) In an instance where a registered society has obtained a ratification for a proposal which
involves a transfer of assets and liabilities under this article,  and if that proposal
contradicts whatever provision that is available in the current law prevailing, the proposal
should be treated as a proper transfer of assets and liabilities notwithstanding the current
law and bestowing such assets to the  beneficiaries should be considered as an adequate
transfer.
Incorporating
Bifurcating &
 transfer of
assets &credits
of
registered
societies.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
10. (1) In an instance where the entirety of a registered society’s assets and liabilities have been
transferred to another society in keeping with the provisions of this precept, the registration
of the first society should be canceled and while that society is considered dissolved it
should also cease to function as a corporation.
 (2) In an instance where two or more registered societies have amalgamated in keeping
with the provisions of this precept the registration of each of those amalgamated societies
will cease to be effective from the day the new society came into existence and further
those societies will be considered as dissolved and their corporate status will also cease
on that date.
(3) In an instance where a single society is bifurcated into two or more societies in
accordance with the provisions of this precept, the registration of that preceding society
will cease to be effective on the date the succeeding societies are registered and that
preceding society will be considered as dissolved and its corporate existence will also
cease on that date.
2nd   CHAPTER
Members of Registered Societies and their Rights and Responsibilities
11 (1) No member of a registered society shall exercise the rights of a memeber unless or until he
has made such payment to the society in respect of membership or acquired such interest
in the society, as may be prescribed by the rules or by laws.
(2) Where a member of a registered society has not made such payment to the society or
acquired such interest in the society as is referred to in subsection (1), it shall be lawful
for the society, from any sum of money due from the society to such member in respect
of the purchase of any scheduled agricultural product under ant statutory organization
to deduct any sum of money due to the society from such member in respect of such
payment or such interest as is referred to in subsection (1).
(3) (a). The minimum value of one share purchased by a member of a registered society is
Rs. 500/ and thisValue should be paid by the member within one year of becoming
a member. However, this may not apply to School Corporative Societies where
provisions enacted by rules may apply.
 (b). A member may commence purchasing a share of a society with the minimum
initial payment of Rs. 50/ and then increase that amount to Rs. 500/ within an year
of that initial payment. The minimum value of a share could be increased on
agreement and could be paid even in one installment.
(4) (a). All the registered corporative societies of the Southern Provincial Council should
make the minimum value of their shares to Rs. 500 within one year from the date
of this precept by making necessary amendments to their constitutions. However,
these provisions may not apply to School corporative societies and   what is
applicable would be provisions enacted by rules.
(b). These provisions may not apply to members who have obtained membership, on
or before the effective date of this precept.
Instances
of cancellation
of registration
of registered
Societies
Members not to
exercise rights
till due
payments made.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
8A
(c). Further, a member may not enjoy his right to exercise his vote or his right to hold
office until he has completed one year since paying his share money in full. However,
this period of one year may not apply to members whose names appear in the
application for new registration forwarded by the societies and members who are
registered societies.
(5) A member may enjoy the right to exercise his vote or his right to hold office  after he
becomes a full member of the society.
(6) (a). A person who is a Member of, Parliament, Provincial Council, Municipal
Council,Town Council or Pradeshiya Sabha may not be eligible to be chosen to
function as a member of the executive body of a registered society and if the election
to the legislative body is subsequent, such elected member should cease to function
in that capacity of the society from the date of such election. Further, unless
sanctioned by the Commissioner or the Registrar, no officer of the Southern
Corporative Development Department should function as an executive body member
of a registered society. This rule however may not apply to an office of  corporative
societies that comprise of only officers of the Southern  Corporative Development
Department.
 (b). An employee of a Southern Province Cooperative Society, unless appointed  by the
Commissioner or the Registrar, may not be eligible to be appointed or to function
as a member of the executive body of a corporative society. However, this article
may not be of relevance to corporative societies  where only officers of corporative
societies are members.
(7). Unless appointed by either the Registrar of the Commissioner, if a person chosen as the
President of a registered society is also the President of another society on the date
that he is chosen, that person is not eligible to be the President of the society where the
objectives are different from those of the first society. However, these provisions may
not be applicable when appointing a President for the District Corporative society.
12 (1). A registered society may admit any person who enters into an agreement  to pursue
trade objectives consistent with the objectives of the constitution of the society as an
Associated member. That agreement however, should be beneficial to the society.
 (2). An Associate member should have no rights either to any part of the society’s Assets or
profits and for voting at the conduct of society affairs.
(3). Other than the limitations imposed by this article, an Associate member may enjoy all
other privileges and rights as per the constitution of the society and  he shall be subject
to the responsibilities specified therein.
13. The minor status, or the incomplete adult age status of a person, duly accepted as a  Member
of a registered society under this precept should not be a constraint from Signing in to the
laws, legal documents and enjoying exemptions as per the rules of this precept. Further, such
status should not be a reason for that member to evade responsibility or to claim exception
and therefore cancellation of an agreement he/she has entered in to with a society. Similarly,
it should be possible to enforce the law in cases where he has taken part in agreements with
the society, either as a principal stakeholder or as a guarantor, notwithstanding the fact that he/
she is a minor.
Associate
Members.
Agreements &
Transactions
entered in to
with minor
members.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
14. A subsequent discovery of a defect or an ineligibility in the appointment of an officer should not
be a reason for that society to disassociate itself from the responsibilities  that officer has
entered into during his tenure.
15.  A member of a registered society should enjoy only one vote in the conduct of society  affairs
at its General and Executive committee meetings. However,in a situation where there is tie in
voting on a particular issue, the Chairman of the meeting could exercise  his vote to be decisive.
However, in the event of electing officers and executive committee members of the society,
a tie in voting should be resolved by resorting to a raffle draw.
16. (1). A member of a primary society, should not exercise his vote unless done on personal
basis by being present at the meetings of the society.
However, where there is provision in the constitution to permit voting by an Agent, such
arrangements may be acceptable.
(2). A society who is a member of another society, however could appoint a member of that
society to exercise its voting rights on its behalf in the conduct of that other society’s
affairs.
17. (1). The transfer of the shares of capital or other obligations/ privileges of, a member, an
ex-member or a deceased member, should be subject the maximum amount  a member
is entitled to as per the rules and conditions prescribed in this precept.
(2). In the case of societies ‘Unlimited’ in their responsibility, members of such  societies
may not transfer a share of the capital or other rights/responsibilities  unless;
(a) He/she has held that share or responsibility for a period exceeding one year and
(b) the transfer is to the society, to a person who is either a member or a person
whose application for membership has been accepted by the executive committee
of a society.
3
RD  PARAGRAPH
                   Responsibilities of Registered Societies
18. Every society registered under this precept should have an address registeredaccording  to
the rules of this precept and to which notices and correspondence could be  addressed to, and
in the event where there is a change in that address such changes should be notified to the
Registrar within seven days of such change.
19. Every registered society upon a request from a member, should make available for  inspection
for a reasonable time, without levying a fee, copy of this precept, its rules, a copy of the
interim constitution of the society, copies of its executive committee order and a copy of the
list of its members by making such documents available for the members at its registered
address.
Agreements
Entered in to
by officers
V oting right of
members
The manner
of exercising
the vote
Limits on
transfer of
Shares &
Relationships
Address  of the
Society
Accessibility
To precept
rules and the
constitution

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
10A
 4TH   PARAGRAPH
Rights, Obligations and Privileges of Registered Societies
20. Upon registration of a society that society should accrue the personality of a corporation
with the right under its name to have Perpetual succession with a Common seal to possess
property, to enter into agreements and to have recourse to law and to be prosecuted with the
right to forward matters in its defense, and with powers to attend to all matters for which the
corporative society was established.
21 (1). A society that has the sale of livestock, agricultural or an item, produced by an  industry,
as one of its objectives, may include provisions in its constitution or reach an agreement
with its members to say that;
           ( a) every member of the society who produces such items should dispose the entirety
or an agreed part, proportion of that produce or brand through the society and
(b) member who is deemed, or proven to have violated the society constitution or an
agreement entered in to, according to the rules of this precept, should pay to the
society an amount determined and assessed in proportion to the loss sustained by
the society as a result of that violation.
However, it is possible for a member to cause changes in the provisions of the
constitution in this regard, or come to an agreement with among the members of
the society
(2) A registered society, in keeping with clause (1) above, should enter into an  agreement
that is to the society’s advantage with regard to goods produced or about to be and likely
to be produced.
(3) The legal implications arising out of clause (1) above, should not be construed by any
member of a registered society as an ‘embargo on trade and industrial produce’.
 (4) If a member of a registered society by reason of an agreement he/she  has entered into
prior to becoming a member, continues to dispose his produced to an outsider in keeping
with that agreement,such disposal should not be considered as a violation of a clause in
the constitution of the society that makes it mandatory for the  member to sell produce
to the society.
(5) In this respect, if a society requires a member to disclose all agreements he has  entered in
to, before he became a member, at the time he becomes a member, in his membership
application, that member should accordingly comply with the requirement of the society.
22 (1) In the event where a registered society is covering a certain area, province or district
within the southern provincial council by selling a particular produce made by the
members of that society and where the Minister concerned is satisfied that such produce
is being made in the area, the Minister may by an order, require a particular producer of
those items in the area, irrespective of whether he/ she is a member or not of the society,
to hand over such part of their produce, after taking over the part of the produce that he/
she requires for his own consumption, to the society.
Society is a
Corporate body
Selling goods to
the society of
through society
Instances
of mandatory
sale of goods
through the
society

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
 (2) Any such order that the Minister may decide to make under clause (1) above,  should be
published in the Gazette and carry specific details of the particular product, the area in
which the order is to be carried out, and the basis of payment to the producer of that
product.
(3) All such orders should be effective from the date such orders are published in the Gazette
notification and should be in force until rescinded according to the provisions of clause
(5) herein.
    (4) All such orders, after coming in to effect should be forwarded to the Southern Provincial
Council for ratification.
  (5) Any such order that is declined to be approved by the Southern provincial council should
be considered as an order rescinded and it should not have an impact on any activity
permitted between the day of the order and the day rescinded.  The day the ratification
of the order is declined by the Southern Provincial Council should be considered as the
day the order was rescinded and such rescinded date should be published in the gazette
notification.
 (6) (a) By an order gazetted by the Minister (Hereinafter known as the amended order), the
Minister could change any order at any time gazetted under clause (1) before. Thus,
every amended order should be effective from the date it is  published in the gazette
notification.
           (b) An amended order that has changed an order made under clause (1) above,should
last a period of time that the first subject order could have lasted, if it had not been
amended, and not any further than that
           (c) Every mended order should be forwarded to the Southern Provincial Council for
Ratification. Yet however, if an amendment made under clause (1) above is further
amended by an amendment or amendments before the original     amendment is
forwarded to the Southern Provincial Council under clause (4), the forwarded
amendment should include the changes effected by all the amendments listed and
in such a situation forwarding all the amendments one  by one to the Southern
Provincial council may not be necessary.
           (d) The declining to approve an order for amendment forwarded to the Southern
Provincial Council under clause (1) should be considered as the termination of that
amendment order and with regard to such amendments that have been declined, the
activities should move forward from that date of such termination as if no amendment
order has been received.
(e) The Minister could subsequently withdraw an amendment order made under clause
(1) and in the event of such a withdrawal, that fact should be published in  the
Gazette and would be effective from the date that is so published.
 (7) All amendment orders sanctioned by the Southern Provincial Council should be treated
as enacted, valid and in force here.
 (8) All notifications published in the  Gazette under this article should be published with the
signature of the Minister.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
12A
 (9) In the event where the provisions of a directions made under this article is considered
contradictory with provisions of certain other existing legislation such contradiction
should have no bearing on the implementation of this particular  direction during the
period prescribed in the direction as the provisions of this   precept should supersede
any other provisions.
(10) Any producer of goods who is not a member of a registered society, but his produce has
been sold by a registered society under an order made by clause (1) above, should abide
by the conditions and obligations of the society for that particular sale,just as a member
of the society would in the course of the transaction.
      (11) In the event where an order is made under clause (1) above, to sell the products of a
certain producer who is not a member of the society and when that producer has made an
application to be admitted as a member of the society:
            (a) the society may retain such amount that is necessary to meet his membership,  in
full or in part, from the proceeds of such sales with the consent of the producer
and
            (b) after settling his proceeds in full, subject to recovery as stated above,should be
admitted as a member.
23 (1) In the event where an outside party has agreed to sell his produce through a  registered
society under sentence 21 or has been bound by an order issued under sentence 22, it is
an offense for any person, having the knowledge of such arrangement, to prompt or
persuade that person to dispose his produce through an alternative source by breaching
that agreement or by disobeying that order. In such  an event if and when that person is
found guilty of that offense in a summary trial by  a Magistrate Court, he should be
subject to a fine not exceeding rupees five thousand.
(2) In the event where the offense stated in clause (1) above in this article has been
committed by a corporate body, every member of the Board of Directors and officers
of that corporate body at the time the offense was committed is considered guilty of
that same offense unless they prove that they were not aware of that arrangement or
have taken every possible precaution in their capacity to prevent that offense from being
taking place.
24 (1) In the event of the death of a member of a registered society, the society could transfer
the share and other relevant relationships to a person nominated by the member in keeping
with the rules of this precept, and where no such member has been nominated the society
could transfer to a person, who the society in the opinion of its executive committee,
consider to be the legitimate heir of that member. On the other hand, the society could
also pay to either the nominated party or to the inheritor according to the rules of the
constitution, an amount equivalent to the value of shares and other relevant relationships
of the member. However,
(a) In the case of an Unlimited society, either the nominated person or the heir of the
deceased member could claim in cash, an amount determined as equivalent to the
value of share and other affairs connected of the deceased member.
(b) In the case of a society registered as limited, the society could within 6 months of
the death of the particular member could transfer the share and other connected
Those who
Prompt others
To breach
Agreements.
Transferring
The rights &
obligations of a
deceased member

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
affairs of the deceased member in keeping with the rules of the precept and the
constitution of the society, to a nominated person, to a heir or to a person as
detailed in a request made by the member.
  (2) A registered society, should settle all other monies due to the deceased member to the
nominated person, to the heir or to an appointed agent.
(3) All payments and transfers made by the registered society upon the death of a member
and in keeping with the provisions of this article, should overpower any other claim
made by another person who makes a claim against the deceased member’s estate.
25 (1) (a) It is the responsibility of the executive committee of every registered society to
maintain an updated membership register, in keeping with the rules of the precept
and of the provisions in the constitution of the society.
(b) The subject register should contain the following details.
(i) The full name, address, national Identity card number, the employment of the
member and the number of shares owned by the member.
(ii) The signature or the thumb impression of the member.
(iii) If there are persons nominated by a member, the full name, date of birth,
address and NIC number of that nominated person/s.
(2) In order to make it evidently clear that a membership register is being maintained by the
society in keeping with the rules of the precept it should contain the following details:
(a) the date on which a particular members name was introduced to the register or list
of names.
   (b) The date on which a particular member obtained his/her membership.
   (c) The date on which a member terminated his/her membership.
  (3) It is the responsibility of the Chairman of the registered society on behalf of the society’s
executive committee to forward a certified copy of the membership register prepared as
above to the Commissioner and the registrar;
(a) within three months since the sanctioning of this precept.
(b) within three months from the commencement of every calendar year together
with all the changes effected to the membership register such as introductions,
deletions and alterations in the status of members, during the preceding year.
26 (1) A copy of the notes of a book of transactions, properly maintained by a registered society,
certified according to the rules of certification, should be admissible as a prima facie
evidence in a civil or criminal legal matter. Further at every instance that content is
considered admissible, a copy of that content subject to the rules of authentication
should be considered as admissible evidence with regard to the subject issues and
transactions to the same degree that original content is considered admissible.
Register of
members.
Proof of entries in
books of society

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
14A
 (2) in a legal matter where the registered society is not a party, unless ordered by the Courts
under special reasons, no officer of the society influenced or is bound to appear as a
witness to produce the books and contents of the society therein or to testify on their
behalf under sentence (1) above.
27. A registered society, notwithstanding any written or implied current law that may stand in the
way;
(1) may use the security deposits in the possession of the society to balance its accounts.
 (2) could bestow the right to the creditor to sell, part or whole of the security deposits,and
to credit the proceeds to balance the accounts, on account of amounts the society has
failed to pay after having received the notice issued by the Courts,without presenting
itself in courts.
28. A registered society is entitled, to come to possess or dispossess, mobile and immobile
property, by purchasing, selling, constructing, receiving as gifts or acquiring by other means,
or by giving or taking on lease, transferring, mortgaging or exchanging, for the  purpose of
accomplishing its set objectives.
 However, a registered society, except in the case of trading stock, cannot enter in to such
transactions on property unless, it obtains the approval of the general body when the value of
a property exceeds two hundred thousand and obtains prior approval in writing from the general
body and the Registrar, when the value of property exceeds five hundred thousand.
 Accordingly, a registered society in possessing and dispossessing immobile property should
obtain the written approval of the society’s general body and the Registrar as detailed above.
29 (1). When the need arises for a registered society to come to possess property for the
purpose of accomplishing its objectives, such need should be considered as a public
need and therefore the Government may permit the society to acquire such property
under the Land Acquisition act.
(2) Where a particular property or land is to be acquired by the government on behalf of a
registered society under the land acquisition act, the subject society, before an order is
made with regard to that property under the provisions of that act, should pay the
government, the amount specified as compensation for the land as per the act and the
connected expenses born by the government in acquiring the property.
However, In the event where a particular property is required urgently for the purpose of
accomplishing the objectives of a registered society, the society has to pay the
government, an amount determined by the acquiring officer as compensation,   prior to
the issuing of the acquisition order, and the balance amount if there is, has to be paid
after deciding on the amount of compensation.
Deposits of
securities as
pledges by a
society
Possessing
Property
Compulsory
acquisition of
land and
buildings

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
5TH  CHAPTER
 General Provisions relating to Interim Constitutions
30 (1) A registered society, having registered its constitution, should bound its  membership
by the provisions of the constitution in such a way, as if every member of the society
has signed against every provision of the interim constitution and that every member
has pledged in person to uphold the provisions of the interim constitution.
(2) In a situation where it is required to define particular provisions of the   constitution of
a registered society, due to some ambiguity with regard to the expressions therein, such
dispute should be forwarded to the registrar for resolution and the decision taken by the
registrar should be decisive and final.
31. A constitution enacted on a particular issue by a registered society empowered by a particular
rule should not be questioned based only on the premise that the enactment is an agreement to
prohibit an industry or business.
32. A registered society, should compose its own constitution and having composed it, is permitted
to incorporate provisions to impose fines against the members of the society who breach the
constitution.
However, no society should impose fines against its members on this count unless that member,
(1) is informed by the society that a fine is to be imposed against him and the reason for
that imposition, and
  (2) has failed to give reasons as against the allegations within the time specified in the rules
of the precept.
6
th Chapter
 Property and Funds of Registered Societies
33 (1) A registered society, having registered its constitution on behalf of its members, is
bound by its provision to each and every member of the society as if every member of
the society has taken an allegiance individually to be bound by the same
 (2) Goods can be supplied on credit as per an agreement entered in to with an Associate
member.
 (3) Subject to the provisions of the constitution of the society,the society can grant loansTo
members having accepted that members immobile property as security guarantee against
loans.
  (4) Subject to the provisions provided in the constitution of the society, the society can
grant loans having mobile or immobile property with two personal guarantors.
34 (1) A registered society, can accept deposits and loan monies from persons who are not
members of the society, subject to the provisions and rules of the society’s  constitution.
By-lows of a
society to bind
members.
Power to make
by-lows in
restrains of
trades.
Power to make by-
lows for the
imposition of
fines on members.
Loans granted
By registered
Societies.
Deposits &
Loans accepted
By registered
Societies.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
16A
 (2) In an instance where a bank has granted a loan to a registered society having obtained a
mortgage on a mobile or immobile property, such transaction should bound that property,
on a priority basis from the date and subsequent to that mortgages over and above any
other transaction entered in to against that property except those already registered as
per the Document registration ordinance against that property or in a manner having a
bearing on that property.
35. Transactions entered in to by a registered society with persons who are not a members of the
society should be subjected to the provisions of articles 33 and 34 of this precept and the
limitations and prohibitions contained in the rules.
36 (1) (a) A registered society could deposit or invest the society’s funds either with
securities which are not the 1
st mortgages of specific properties under article 20
of  the Custody Ordinance or with a banker or a person who functions as a banker
as approved by theRegistrar or with any other registered society or on guarantee
as sanctioned by the Registrar, or in any other way as permitted by the rules.
(b) Re-investment of deposits and properties obtained from members and none
members should be done according to the standards specified by the registrar.
(c) The society should seek the prior approval of the registrar when obtaining advances
and loans against deposits and property securities from external institutions.
(d) A society registered under this precept should not invest its funds in a business or
industry outside its stated objectives without obtaining approval from the Registrar.
  (2) However, this precept does not render invalid a particular investment, made prior to the
commencement of this precept but yet may not have been acceptable had this precept
been effective. yet, such agreements should not be renewed after the expiry  of the
current period of the agreement except under the provisions of this precept.
37 (1) Every registered society, in every financial year, as determined by the Auditor as per
article 39 of this precept should;
(a) (i) pay an amount not less than 50 % of the profit before appropriation to the
credit of Southern Province Cooperative Development fund established by
this  precept. This money should be paid within a period not less than 90
days of the receipt of the Audit report to the society. In the event of failure
to make that payment, the Registrar in order to recover this money will
issue a certificate to the magistrate. The Magistrate is empowered to recover
this money by way of a fine imposed on the society and credit same to the
corporative fund.
 (ii) As per the legal aspect under paragraph (i) above, this article should not
Empower the Magistrate to question, to examine,or to determine on, the
correctness of the certificate issued by the Registrar.
 (b) An amount not less than 25% of the Net profit should be transferred to the Statutory
fund of the Society, similarly
 (c) although certain societies may lose money, at least Rs. 50/ should be paid by each
society towards the Cooperative development fund. The School Corporative
societies are however, exempted from this rule.
Restriction on
other transactions
with non-
members.
Investing the
Society funds.
Appropriation
of profits.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(d) Provisions should be made by rules to administer the Cooperative Development
Fund.
 (2) (a) The excess of profits of the society, after making contributions to the Corporative
development fund and to the Statutory fund, should be utilized for the purpose of
accomplishing one or more of the following events, with the approval of the
registrar.
 (i) To pay as dividends to the members, either 10 % of the balance profit or
10% of  the value of fully paid shares, whichever is less in value
(ii) To reward the members in accordance with the value of transactions they
have entered in to with the society as permitted by the provisions of the
constitutions.
(iii) To appropriate a maximum of 10% of the balance monies to funds determined
by the Interim Constitution.
 (iv) To appropriate a certain sum, to pay bonus to the employees of the Society
and for their welfare activities.
 (v) To appropriate a certain sum to funds clearly specified by the society’s
constitution.
  (vi) To contribute not more than 10 % of the balance monies to a common
welfare fund, for the purpose of disbursing on social, cultural or recreational
activity or for achieving a wider public objective in the province or area.
 (b) The monies lying to the balance after appropriating as per (a) above should be
transferred to the statutory fund account.
7
TH   CHAPTER
                   Accounts, Income/Expenditure, Audit, Inspection &Investigation
38 (1). Every registered society should maintain accounts in accordance with standards specified
by the registrar with regard to the society’s income/expenditure, assets/ liabilities and
all other transactions of the society.
(2). Every registered society should maintain its books of accounts in a manner that represents
a true and fair view of its transactions during a particular financial year in keeping with
the standards laid down by the registrar or a person appointed by the registrar.  The
society should prepare a statement of Accounts at the end of every financial year and the
statement of accounts so prepared should include the profit & Loss statement and the
Assets and Liabilities statement for the particular year, and it should be presented to the
Registrar or a person appointed by the registrar within three months from the end of the
particular financial year. The financial statement so prepared should be certified and
signed mentioning the date of signature by either the Chairman or the Deputy Chairman
and by two other Executive committee members of the society. If the financial statement
duly signed and presented to the Registrar is found to be erroneous or fraudulent, the
officers of the society are liable to be prosecuted under the Penal code for preparing
fraudulent documents.
Accounts &
Audits
of a society

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
18A
 (3). In the event where a registered society has not complied with provisions of clause
(2) above, every member of the executive committee of that society is found to have
committed an offense and when found guilty of the offense at a summary trial before a
Magistrate court should be subject to a fine, a minimum & maximum of which, should be
Rs. 10,000/ and Rs. 50,000/ respectively. In addition, the executive committee should be
subjected to a directive that requires the committee to produce the annual accounts
statement within 3 months of that directive. However, if a member could prove that the
offense committed was done without his full awareness of the offense and that he has
made every effort within his means to prevent the offense from taking place, such member
may be exonerated from  such conviction.
(4) (a). In the event where the statement of Annual Accounts is not produced before the
Registrar as prescribed in clause (3) above, the Registrar should take steps to
dissolve the current executive board of the subject society and appoint a suitable
administrative board to administer the society.
(b). The administrative board appointed as in paragraph (a) above should prepare the
accounts of the previous year before the end of the current financial year and
should forward the accounts to the registrar and should proceed to call a general
meeting of the society within the time laid down by the registrar and take action to
appoint an executive committee of the society to conduct its affairs for the rest of
the period of office. In such a situation the members who were present in the   previous
executive committee of the society as in (a) above are not eligible to seek office.
(c).  In the event where the books and accounts and financial reports are prepared by
the registrar as in (b) above the society should act to recover such expenses  incurred
in the preparation from the executive board found to be wanting in its  duty,
collectively and individually.
 (5) (a). Every registered society should prepare a budgeted Income & Expenditure
statement that includes revenue targets, capital and recurrent expenditure, fund
sources, fund investments and profit and loss statements and a balance Sheet for
every financial year.
(b) These statements, should be prepared and forwarded for the approval of the general
membership two months in advance of every financial year.
(c) In the event where there is an injunction against the summoning of the general
meeting of the society by courts, the Secretary of the society should give reasons
to the courts by way of a motion and obtain permission to hold a special general
meeting only for the purpose of approving the annual estimates of income and
expenditure and the development program of the society. Accordingly, the
commissioner should convene a general meeting of the society.
(d) A copy of the subject income & Expenditure statement should be made available
to the Registrar one month before the subject financial year.
(e) The structure and the manner of the subject income & Expenditure statement and
the information contained therein should be determined by the registrar.
Preparation
of Income &
 expenditure

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
39 (1). The audit of a registered society may be performed by an officer of the Corporative
Development Department empowered by the registrar or any other Certified Accounts
examiner, appointed by the Registrar. For the purpose of this article, a certified Accounts
examiner would be,
(a) A Chartered Accountant or a firm of Chartered Accountants
(b) A person or a body of persons whose name is included in the list of Accounts
examiners maintained by the registrar.
(2). The period of audit as per this precept should commence from the last date of the
preceding audit period and end with the last date of the subject financial year or with a
date ordered by the Registrar, as the case is.
(3) ( a). In the event where an audit is required on account of a criminal case or an
investigation, the Registrar has the power to order a person suitably empowered
in accordance with article 39(1).
(b). When an audit is warranted on account of a criminal case, the Registrar has the
power to order an Accounts examiner to conduct a special audit covering a period
not exceeding 12 months.
 (4) An  Accounts examiner should forward the report to the Registrar in duplicate, in a
manner specified by the Registrar. The report, in addition to other information, should
include the following points of information,
(a) Whether all relevant information required for the purpose was made available
(b) Whether the books of accounts have been maintained by the society regularly and
in a timely manner
(c) Whether the financial declarations and financial status declarations are in keeping
with the books of accounts.
(5) The Accounts Examiner should enclose with the accounts report all lists and registers
specified by the registrar. The accounts Examiner should forward a certified full financial
status report in a structure specified by the Registrar.
(6) The Audit performed as per clause (1) above should have -
(a) An assessment and a ……………….. of the Assets and Liabilities of every
registered society.
(b) An examination on whether the books, reports, other registers, work procedures,
information forwarding systems and the organization of certifying procedure are
adequate, productive and enable a continuous evaluation of the state of affairs of
the society’s financial control.
(c) An examination whether the conduct of the society’s affairs have been done in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the corporative precept and those of
the constitution of the society and whether the administration of the society has
complied with the provisions of the precept and those of the constitution.
Audits

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
20A
(d) An examination whether the funds of the society have been transacted in an efficient
and a prudent manner.
(e) An examination whether there exists a satisfactory system to protect the properties
and funds that are under the administration/management of the registered society.
(f) An examination whether the accounts, investments and assessments have been
carried out according to accepted principals relevant to those activities and whether
the audited accounts have been planned to give a true and fair view of the financial
position of the society.
(g) Any other matter relevant or material to the subject under consideration .
(h) The audit activity underclauses (1) and (6) above of this article should be carried
out in keeping with conditions, procedures and structures detailed by the
Corporative Development Commissioner and accordingly, the subject reports
should comply with such requirements as prescribed.
(7) The Registrar of the person appointed by the Registrar, to carry out the financial  audit
of the registered society should have the power to,
(a) Call any person, an officer who is presently or formerly employed, an agent, a
member or an outsider, who in the opinion of the Registrar or the person appointed
by the registrar, is capable of providing material information with regard to the
management and financial transactions of the registered society.
(b) Call for any document, register, a security deposit certificate, funds or any other
property that is in the possession of any person, an officer who is presently or
formerly employed, an agent, a member or an outsider, which in the opinion of the
Registrar or the person appointed by the registrar, is material to the conduct of
the registered society and the financial audit.
(c) To take into personal custody any books or documents that is deemed necessary
for the time being.
(d) To enter into any premises, to examine and to take a physical count of goods, that
is relevant to the conduct of the affairs of the subject society.
(8) The Registrar or person appointed in writing by the registrar has the power to call for,
inspect any books, registers, documents or cash in hand of a registered society maintained
by that society, at any time that is deemed necessary. Further all such materials should
be forwarded to the registrar or his nominee by the person or officer in charge of that
material or in the alternative should provide such information relevant to the conduct of
the society as ordered by the registrar or his nominee in charge of the inspection.
       (9) The Registrar and a person nominated by him/her for an audit or an inspection of  the
registered society should be considered as a Public servant in the definition of  the
Penal Code.
(10) (a) If a person, currently or formerly engaged in the organizing, management, as an
Officer, employee or in any other capacity in a registered society, has made or
authorized a payment or has appropriated the society funds, before or during the
conduct of the audit,in violation of, either the rules of this precept,the constitution,

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
rules and practices advocated by the registrar, the provisions issued by the
Corporative Service commission, and orders and procedures adopted by the
executive committee of the society or any other rule or law that is relevant to the
registered society, such payment should not be permitted by the Registrar and the
person who caused, made or authorized that payment or appropriation of funds
should be surcharged. Further the person responsible for such improper/ negligent
authorization or payment should be made accountable for the loss suffered due to
the particular authorization or payment. However, when no such accountability is
forthcoming that loss should  be recovered from the dues of that person
responsible. Further the monies  recoverable from that person, at each instance,
should be communicated to him  in writing.
(b) The registrar or the person authorized by the registrar should offer a reasonable
period of time in the context of the case to the person held accountable to give
reasons for his action in making the said payment or authorization but if no such
opportunity is afforded, and the surcharge is imposed, the registrar or the person
authorized by the registrar is bound to give reasons, if requested by the person
accountable, for not offering an opportunity to give reasons in writing.
(c) On occasions where conduct has not followed the directions of the registrar,  article
65 of this precept, with suitable changes, may become relevant.
40. (1) In the event where certain shortcomings in the conduct of a registered society is revealed
at an audit performed under this precept, the registrar should take action to inform the
members of the society of that position, and if another society is a member in this, to
inform that other society as well.
 (2) In such an event, the registrar may issue an order specifying a particular course of action
to remedy the shortcomings reported or to specify a time period within which to be
acted upon to remedy the situation.
 (3)  If action is not taken as per clause (2) above, the option would be to act as per  Paragraph
(a) of clause (2) in article 56.
41. (1) The Registrar could conduct, in his own direction, an inspection with regard to a  registered
society’s composition, financial status and to its conduct or its books of  accounts.
Further, the registrar upon requested by the majority of the executive committee or
members amounting to not less than 1/3
rd if the general membership, should order an
inspection of the composition, financial status and the conduct, or to the books of
accounts of the subject society. A person authorized in writing by the registrar could
order an inspection of the registered society’s composition, financial status, conduct
and the books of accounts.However, as provided under this article, before such an
inspection on books or an  examination commences or is ordered; the registrar has the
power to conduct or order a preliminary inspection to determine whether there are
reasonable grounds to  warrant such an examination.
(2) For the purpose of conducting an examination as mentioned in (1) above, the  registrar
or the person appointed by the registrar should have the power to,
(a) Call any person, an officer who is presently or formerly employed, an agent, a
member or an outsider, who, in the opinion of the Registrar or the person appointed
by the registrar, is capable of providing material information with regard to the
administration and financial transactions of the registered society.
Communication of
defect in audit to
societies
Preliminary
Enquiry
Examination
& enquiry

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
22A
 (b) Call for any document, register, a security deposit certificate, funds or any other
property that is in the possession of any person, an officer who is presently or
formerly employed, an agent, a member or an outsider, which in the opinion of the
Registrar or the person appointed by the registrar, is material to the conduct of
the registered society and to the financial audit and to order that a certified  copy
of those books, document, security deposit, or any other such item is made
available when required, suggested and by the relevant party.
(c) to summon an executive committee meeting or a general meeting of the society
on a date and time decided by him to determine on matters suggested and offered
by him
 (d)  to take into custody the books of accounts when it is felt during the inspection
that there is sufficient reason to believe that a fraud has taken place.
(e) To enter into any premises, to examine and to take a physical count of goods, that
is relevant to the conduct of that investigation and to the affairs of the subject
society.
 (3) Before the finalization of an inspection carried out by the registrar as per this clause (1)
of the article 41 above, and upon the Interim report obtained on that inspection, if the
registrar forms the opinion that the current executive committee of the subject society
is incapable, inefficient or unable in any other way to discharge its duties, the registrar
has power to suspend the existing executive committee by a period of six months and to
appoint an Interim administrative board to manage and administer the affairs of the society.
Thereafter the registrar has to conclude the investigation within 6 months of the date of
suspending the executive committee and decide upon the contents of the final report,
whether to dissolve or not, the existing executive committee of the society.
(4) The registrar or a person appointed by the registrar in writing could inquire in to whether
an officer of the registered society is appointed duly, whether an officer has ceased to
function duly or whether the general meetings or the executive committee meetings of
the registered society are held properly,
 (5) In the event where it is felt necessary to examine, the financial position or the stock
position through a physical verification or when it is felt necessary to examine on the
transactions, books of accounts and registers maintained by the society, the Registrar
has powers to commence an examination, to mobilize necessary officers for the purpose
or to order such an examination without prior notice
(6) The Registrar and persons appointed by him with delegated authority  should be
considered as Public servants in the definition of the Penal Code.
42. Upon an audit, an examination, an inspection on books of accounts or an impromptu inspection,
carried out under this precept, the Registrar should direct the executive committee that is to
continue to take remedial action where necessary based on the findings of the report. Thus,
the executive committee is bound to take action, as directed by the registrar within three
months of that direction and failure to do so may make the executive committee guilty of an
offense.
Suspension
Of Executive
Committee &
Appointing an
Interim Board
Of management
Investigation
On legitimacy
Of Membership
Office/post&
meetings
Impromptu
& emergency
Investigations
Investigators are
Public servants

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
8TH  CHAPTER
Dissolution of the Executive committee or Removal of Members of the Executive Committee
of a Registered Society
43. (1) Consequent to an examination, or an investigation on books carried out as per  article
41 of the precept, if the Registrar is of the opinion that a particular member or members
of the executive committee or the executive committee as a  whole, is not discharging
his/her/their duties as they should, the registrar should  proceed to remove the member/
members or to dissolve the executive committee.  However, if there are objections
from a member, members or the subject executive committee on the proposed removal,
the registrar, after having offered time for such objections, should convene a meeting
of the general body of the society in keeping with the rules and regulations of the
constitution and the precept. If the investigation was conducted by the registrar he may
summon a general body or on the other hand  if the investigation was conducted by the
executive committee or the membership, a  meeting summoned with the consent of
1/3
rd of the membership and reveal the findings of the investigation and express his
opinion on the issues involved to the general membership :
  (a) Accordingly, the general meeting should remove the member or members of the
executive committee who have been found guilty at that meeting and take necessary
steps in keeping with the constitution to fill the vacancies so created with members
from among the members other than the ones removed,
    (b) In a situation where the executive committee becomes invalid as in clause (1)
above, the membership could dissolve the executive committee and appoint a new
Executive committee comprising of persons not served in the previous committee.
However, if the general membership is not taking action to remove member  found
guilty and appoint new members, the Registrar should order the removal of  guilty
members and appoint new members. On occasions where the executive committee
ceases to function the Registrar could appoint an administrative body to administer
the society. An administrative body that is so appointed should have all the powers,
as per the constitution, of the general membership.
(c) As a consequence of an examination or an investigation on books of accounts of a
registered society carried out as per article 41, if the registrar forms the opinion
that the executive committee in its entirety, is not performing as it should, the
registrar, having offered time for the executive committee to give reasons as to
why the committee should not be dissolved, should proceed to call a general
meeting as per the rules and regulations and reveal the findings of the  examination
and the opinion formed by him and notify the general body to appoint to replace
the subject executive committee with an alternative executive  committee.
However, when the general body does not act to appoint a new executive committee
the registrar has the power to appoint an Administrative Board to take the affairs
of the society forward. The official period of a Board or  Committee so appointed
will be in accordance with the provisions of article 43  (2).
Dissolution of
the executive
committee

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
24A
 (d) The executive committee members so removed from office as per article 43.(1) (a),
43.(1) (b), 43.(1)(c),  shall not be entitled to hold office or to be appointed to an office
in any corporative society for a period of seven years.
(e) (i) If an executive committee member is removed from a motion of no
confidence in a general meeting of a registered society such members should
not be  entitled to hold, to be elected or to be appointed to any office of a
registered  society for a period of 7 years.
 (ii) Similarly when an executive committee member or members have been
found guilty after an examination or an investigation under article 41, the
registrar has powers to make an order on the accusations. If such an order is
to be announced the registrar should grant an opportunity to the accused
person or persons to give reasons as to why such an order should not be
issued. Accordingly, an executive committee member found guilty of
misconduct is not permitted to hold office, to be elected to office or to be
appointed to an office for 7 years from the date of issuing such an order.
Further if such person  or persons are currently holding other office, they
will cease to hold such office by reason of this order.
 (f) An Executive committee member removed from office due to a financial
misappropriation as per (a),(b),(c) or (e) (i) &(ii) above, is not entitle to hold
office or to be elected or appointed to an office in any registered society. The
names of such persons should be entered in the blacklisted register and Gazetted
every year  and also, should be included in the Corporative Society’s website by
the registrar.
(2) ( a) The executive committee, person or persons, appointed as per articles (1) (a) and
(b) above should function in that capacity till the end of the time period of the
Current executive committee he/they composed.
(b) While the executive committee so appointed under such circumstances have a
period as mentioned in (2) (a) above, they should enjoy all the power, rights and
privileges just as an executive committee duly appointed.
(3) The executive committee, person or persons, appointed as per articles (1) (a) and (b)
above should exercise all the power, rights and privileges just as an executive committee
duly appointed.
(4) If a person or a body of persons appointed as a result of circumstances described in
43(1) (a) and (b), causes a loss to the society by conducting in violation of the rules of
the precept and the constitution of the society such persons are individually and severally
responsible for the losses caused to the society.
 (5) A person or a body of persons appointed to take charge of the management of a society
under this article and whose period expires as detailed in article 43.(2) (a) above, is
responsible for ensuring the appointment of a new executive committee to take over the
affairs of the society as per the rules of the constitution of the society.
(6) In considering the contents of this article it should not be presumed that the activities
described herein should have any bearing on the powers vested in the  Registrar to cancel
the registration of a registered society as per article 45.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
       (7) In the event where an executive committee of a registered society has become inactive, and as
a result, if the general body at a duly summoned general meeting, passes a resolution to
request the registrar to appoint an administrative body to manage the society’s affairs and
makes a request to the registrar accordingly, the registrar is empowered to appoint an
administrative board comprising not less than 3 persons. The Administrative board so
appointed should function in keeping with the provisions in article 43. (2) (a)and the
registrar has the power to name the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman or both, as the
case may be, in such an instance.
9
TH  CHAPTER
Dissolution of an Executive Committee of a Registered Society
44. (1) As a result of an examination or an investigation into the books of accounts of a
registered society as per article 41(1) or due to any other reason, having received a
request from 2/3rds of the general membership for dissolution of the society, and also
having afforded time for objections against the requested dissolution by the members
and creditors of the society, if the registrar is of the opinion that the particular society
should be dissolved, the registrar by an order under his signature could dissolve the
society.
(2) Upon the issue of an order as in clause (1) above, a member, or a creditor, of the subject
society could appeal to the Minister within 60 days of the date of issue of that order.
Upon receiving such an appeal, the Minister is bound to make a ruling on that  appeal
within 60 days of the receipt of that appeal.
 (3) When an order is issued cancelling the registration of a society, that order becomes
effective within 60 days of such issue in the absence of an appeal made against that
order. In the event of an appeal against that order, that order does not become  effective
until the order is duly confirmed.
  (4) When an order is made cancelling the registration of a society under article 44(1)  above,
the Registrar could appoint one or more persons to be in charge of the books and affairs
of the society, until, either that order becomes effective or that order is confirmed/ not
confirmed by the minister in case of an appeal against that order. In such an event the
executive committee or the person in charge of books and registers  should hand over
all such matters to the person or persons appointed by the registrar and thereafter, until
the order becomes effective or otherwise, as the case may be, the executive committee
should remain inactive.
45. Other than under the circumstances detailed in article 44 above, the registrar may cancel the
registration of a registered society when one or many of the following situations exist with
regard to a registered society in the manner describe therein.Further, the registrar may not be
bound by any claims made by any party against the subject society after the registration is
effectively cancelled.
(a) When it is a condition for registration that the society should have at least 20 members
for the society to register and when the number of members falls below 20, the society
automatically becomes unregistered.
Dissolution
Cancelling the
Registration of
a society

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
26A
 (b) When a registered society has not commenced its activities after one year of its  registration
or when it has been inactive for two years up to the date before the order of cancellation
is issued under this article. In this situation the registrar may  cancel the registration by
issuing an order in writing.
(c) When no person, member or executive committee member appears on behalf of a
registered society to claim ownership for the books, registers or any other matter that
is available.  In this situation the registrar may cancel the registration by making a gazette
notification after giving a 3 months period through a public press advertisement. Further,
the Registrar should not be bound by any claim made against a society once its registration
is canceled.
(d) Also, in situations when :
(i) there is obstructions to a person appointed by the Commissioner for the  purpose
of inspecting the books of accounts of the registered society,
(ii) there is obstructions for holding executive committee or general meetings of the
society,
  (iii) the annual audit is not updated as it should,
 (iv) the responsibilities as regards the society’s depositors are not  discharged  properly,
 (v) there is a request made to the registrar by not less than 2/3rds of the  society’s
general membership.
 the registrar in his own conviction has power to seek the recommendation of the Minister
to obtain a ruling from the Provincial Board of Ministers, to either incorporate  the
subject society in to another registered society, to cancel the registration of the society
or to strike the society off the registration list of the Corporative department. Having
obtained the ruling the subject society should be either incorporated in to another
registered society, undergo a cancellation of its registration or face a striking off from
the registration list of the Corporative department, depending on the ruling of the Board
of Ministers.
46. When the registration of a registered society is cancelled as per the provisions of article 44 or
article 45, that society, from the date that cancellation becomes effective, hereinafter known
as the ‘Dissolution date’ should cease to function as a corporation.
However, it should be noted that the registrar as per this precept or as per other legal provisions,
has incorporated the privileges of the society to a Liquidator or to Liquidators, appointed on
behalf of the society.
47. The Registrar may appoint one or more Liquidator when the registration of a registered  society
is cancelled as above except under article 44 or sub articles (C ) and (d) under article 45.
Accordingly, all the property of the subject society should be duly handed over to the liquidator
on the date such cancellation becomes effective.
48. (1). The liquidator or liquidators appointed as per article 47 should have the following powers,
subject to the direction and supervision of the registrar and the limitations imposed
under article 49,
The effect
Cancelling the
registration
Liquidation of
a registration
Powers of a
Liquidator

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(a) To determine from time to time the dues to the society’s assets from the members,
former members and from the estates of deceased members
(b) To announce the date, by a declaration or by notice, before which, the Creditors
whose names have not been entered in the books of the society should forward
their claims to be entered in the books or the  date before which the creditors are
disowned through a distribution of  assets prior to such claims are confirmed.
(c) To determine the priority basis on settlements to creditors as per the provisions
of  this precept.
(d) To refer any detail or any dispute as per article 53(having understood that reference
to the society as a reference made to the auctioneer) to be arbitrated  under that
article, and to file action on legal matters under his own name or title and to
present counter arguments on legal matters.
(e) To determine the quantum of the Liquidator’s fees and the proportion of that  costs
each party should bear.
(f) To issue directives on the disbursement after compiling the assets as may be
required in the closure of a society after settling the dues.
(g) To arbitrate on the claims made for and against the society if the prior approval of
the registrar has been granted for the purpose.
(h) To convene a general meeting of the subject society that may be required to  conduct
a proper liquidation.
(i) To take in to his personal custody, the books, registers and assets of the society.
(j) To auction the properties of the society.
(k) to maintain the affairs of the society to an extent required to settle productively the
dues and close the society. However, nothing  contained herein should be stow
power to an auctioneer of a Loan  granting society to grant a particular loan.
(l) To organise activities to feasibly distribute the assets of the society once  the
registrar has approved a proposal to distribute the assets.
(2) A Liquidator appointed under this precept, subject to the provisions made for the purpose,
may enjoy powers as may be required to conduct duties under this article  and as detailed
in the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code (as required) to summon  the stake holders
and witnesses, to compel them to attend, and also to compel them to produce books and
registers as required.
49. While the liquidator may exercise his powers subject to the management and directives  of
the registrar, the registrar has powers to;
 (a) rescind, change or even issue a completely new directive with regard to the directives
issued by the liquidator
   (b) remove the auctioneer from the post
Power of
registrar
over
liquidation

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
28A
(c)  direct to forward all books, registers and assets of the society
(d)  limit the powers of the auctioneer as per article 48 of the precept by issuing a  written
directive
(e) Direct the liquidator to forward accounts, if and when the registrar feels necessary
 (f) arrange and audit of the liquidator’s accounts and to delegated powers to disburse the
assets of the society
(g) issue directions to pay the liquidator for his efforts
(h) arbitrate on a dispute between the liquidator and a third party, a dispute that cannot  be
forwarded for arbitration under article 48(1)(c), and when the stake holder expresses
agreement to be bound by a decision of such an arbitration
 (i)  establish a fund titled Corporative Excess Fund account and direct all collections made
by the auctioneer to be credited to this account. Further this account  should be made to
function according to the rules by the Registrar.
50 (1). On an issue forwarded to an arbitrator under article 49, the parties are bound by the
decision of the arbitrator and that decision should be enforced as if it is an order issued
by the registrar under the said article.
 (2) While a directive issued by the registrar or the arbitrator under article 49 or article 48
should not be questioned in any civil courts, it should be enforced as if it is a ruling
issued by a Civil Courts within whose jurisdiction the location of the registered office
of the society falls. However, a bank, who is a creditor of a society whose registration
has been cancelled should have the right to appeal to the Minister against the  directive
issued by the registrar or the arbitrator as per article 48 or 49, within 60 days  of the
issuance of that directive. The Minister should give a ruling on an appeal so made
within 60 days from the date on which that appeal was made.
  (3) In a situation where no appeal is made to the Minister within 60 days after a ruling is
issued by the Registrar or by the arbitrator as per article 48 or article 49, such ruling of
the registrar or the auctioneer, after the lapse of the said period, should become effective.
Similarly, where an appeal has been made against that ruling to the Minister within the
stipulated time the directive of the registrar or the auctioneer should not become
effective until the ruling on the appeal is made by the Minister.
51. Unless as expressed in the provisions of this precept on prior occasions, no civil courts  should
have jurisdiction over matters concerning the dissolution of a society registered under this
precept.
52 (1) When liquidating a society whose registration has been cancelled, the funds, including
the reserve fund, subject to the provisions of this precept, should be used, first against
the liquidating fees, then against debts guaranteed by the society towards the Government
and the Provincial Government, then in meeting other trading obligation of the society
and thereafter to pay the share capital. Any further excess of funds available should be
used, provided the constitution of the society permits, to pay dividends not exceeding
10% of share value for periods in which no dividends have  been declared and paid, and
then to pay a donation to the members for the period before dissolution for which no
suitable arrangement has been made on profits.
Executing the
Directives
Civil Courts
& limiting
The court’s
authority
Concluding
Liquidation

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(2) If any creditor has not made a claim against the liquidator of the society for what is due to
him and thus if no payments were made, that fact should be published in the gazette
notification. Further, any legal matter (case) against the dues from a dissolved  society
may not be entertained unless made within 90 days of that gazette notification.
(3) After settling the obligations as listed in clause (1) above of this article and settling any
claim made through law as stated in clause (2), any excess available may be credited to
an Excess Fund account established under this precept.
10
TH   CHAPTER
Disputes
53 (1) A dispute relating to the trade or industry of a registered society are disputes;
(a) between, a member/ former member Vs a person who makes a claim for a member,
former member or a decease member, or present and former officers/employee
or an heir or a legitimate agent of an officer/ employee
(b) between member/former member/members /former members or a person who
claims for a deceased member Vs the society, its executive committee or a present
and former employee/officer or an heir or a legitimate agent of an employee/
officer.
(c) between the society or its executive committee Vs a present or former officer/
employee or an heir or an agent of a deceased officer/ employee
(d) between the society or its executive committee Vs a person who has transferred a
business or part of it to the society
(i) who happens to be a former employee/officer of another society
(ii) who happens to be a member former member or a person who claims on
behalf of a deceased member
(iii) who happens to be an officer/employee or a heir or a legitimate agent of an
employee/officer
(e) between the society Vs another registered society (in which case the dispute should
be referred to the registrar for a ruling)
(f) between a present/former employee/Officer/employee/a heir or an agent of a
deceased member/officer/employee Vs the society where the society has to
recover a loan granted or a loss suffered, whether such recovery is accepted or
not, as defined by this sub article.
(2) The Registrar, having received a reference under clause (1)
          (a) may settle the dispute on his own accord or
          (b) may refer to an arbitrator or arbitrators to do as suitable.
Resolution
Of disputes

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
30A
 (3) (a) A party that is not satisfied with the ruling of the arbitrator or arbitrators can make
an appeal to the registrar against that ruling. Such an appeal to the registrar should
be made within 60 days of the issuance of that ruling, with reasons in writing as to
why that party is not satisfied with the ruling.  If such an appeal is made by an
accused in a decisive case against a ruling given against him/her, 10% of the amount
so ruled and if the appeal is made by the complainant, 10% of the amount  demanded
in a decisive case should be sent along with the appeal. However, the amount so
required to be submitted as a deposit for an appeal, by one party or the other,
should not be less that Rs. 1000/ and should not be more than Rs. 50,000/.
         (b) The registrar should decline any appeal not made in compliance with sub article
3(a) above.
(4) A party that has made an appeal to the registrar under clause (3) above may make  a
request and obtain permission to present him/her self before the registrar through an
agent and make a presentation on the dispute to the registrar.
(5) The registrar’s ruling under either clause (2) or clause (3) of this article should be final
and it should not be questioned in a Civil Court of law.
   (6) If no appeal is made to the registrar as per sub article (3) above against the ruling  issued
by an arbitrator as per sub article (2) above, or if such facility to appeal is renounced or
withdrawn, the ruling issued should be final and it may not be questioned in a Civil Court
of law.
 (7) Provisions of the Statute barred ordinance should not be applicable to a claim which is
the subject of a dispute under this article.
 (8) If a doubt surfaces as to whether the dispute referred to the registrar is a dispute on
trade and industry of the particular society, the ruling of the registrar on the matter will
be final and it may not be questioned in a Civil Court of law.
  (9) The term ‘Member’ under this article may include Associate members as well.
 (10) As per this article the registrar and the umpire appointed to arbitrate should be defined
as a public servant as per the Penal code.
54 (1) If no appeal is made against a ruling (hereinafter referred to as ‘the ruling’) made either
by the registrar or by an arbitrator on matters duly referred to them under article 53 and
if no appeal is duly made to the registrar against that ruling as provided in the article,
known as a ruling and the conclusion in such ruling involves payment of  money from
one party to the other and in a situation where such payment together with the fees and
interests is not paid, the registrar, having termed that party who has not paid as the ‘Evader’
as per this article and may subject that party to,
 (a) an issuance of a certificate to a District Courts that has jurisdiction over the district
that the ‘evader‘ is either residing or has immobile and mobile property,  giving
the name of the evader together with particulars of monies due, having added the
interest and charges if any.
 (b) an issuance of a certificate, giving the name and address of the evader and
particulars of the monies due, to a Magistrate of a division that has jurisdiction
over the last known place of residence or place of business of the evader.
Executing a
decision or
a directive

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(2) In an instance where a certificate has been issued to a District Court as in clause (1)
paragraph (a) of the article, the District Court, having received that certificate and in
order to recover the dues stated in the certificate, should be directed to issue a writ of
the Court (askeesi) to the Fiscal officer empowering him/her to seize the whole, or
part, of the evaders mobile and immobile property, or a portion that the Fiscal officer
considers to be adequate to recover the stated amount.  In disposing the property so
seized article No’s from No. 226 to 297 of the Civil Procedure Code may be invoke as
relevant with suitable alterations.
 (3) In an instance where a certificate has been issued to a Magistrate as in paragraph (b)  in
clause (1) above, the magistrate, having received that certificate and in order to recover
the dues stated in the certificate, should summon the evader before him/her to ascertain
reasons as to why further action should not be taken against the evader to recover the
dues. If the evader fails to forward satisfactory reasons the Magistrate  in a situation
where it could not be penalised by a term of imprisonment but only a by a fine, may
penalise the evader for an offence that could be penalised only by imposing a fine.  In this,
the provisions of the article 291 of Criminal Procedure Code No. 15 of 1979 (except its
paragraphs (a) and (b) of clause No. (1) should be relevant  and the Magistrate could make
an order within his powers at the time such criminal punishment is imposed.  When the
evader agrees to pay a fine in place of the dues, the Magistrate may order the evader to
pay by depositing funds to an account specified by the Registrar or in any other manner
and when the legitimacy of the receipt is established, a directive may be issued by the
magistrate treating the monies  as being paid to the courts.
 (4) An evader punished with imprisonment for not paying a fine as per article 291 of the
Criminal procedure code No.15 of 1979 may not be discharged for paying an amount of
money specified in the certificate as per article 54(1)(b)
(5) The Registrar, when issuing a certificate under this article, by sending that message,
personally, by registered post or by telegram, has to  ensure that the message reaches
the evader. Yet, the non-receipt of that message by the evader is not a reason to do away
with the legal provisions available under this article.
(6) On legal matters and provisions under this article, a District court or a Magistrate should
have no powers to, question the veracity, examine the truthfulness and to sit on judgement
on the certificated issue and the statements made by the registrar.
(7) Monies collected by sale under clause (2) or collected on account of a fines paid or
recovered under clause (3) should, be remitted to the Registrar by the District Courts
or the Magistrate. The registrar may appropriate the money as directed by the rules and
orders of the situation.
11
TH   CHAPTER
Special Provisions relevant to Registered Societies.
55 (1) When an application for membership of a registered society by a prospective member
is declined by that society, that prospective member may make an appeal to the  Registrar
against that rejection. The registrar may decide on that appeal within 60  days of receiving
that appeal and that decision should be final for all intends and  purposes and the subject
society is bound to act accordingly.

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
32A
 (2) When an issue crops up as to whether a member of a registered society has been appointed
to a particular office of the registered society duly, whether a particular  officer of the
society has ceased to function in that capacity, whether the executive committee meetings
and the general meetings of the society have been held duly or on any other similar
administrative matter, the registrar should give a ruling on all such matters and the
decision of the registrar should be considered as final.
56. When a registered society, obtains an advance, loan or a grant from the Government or From
the Provincial Government, or obtains such facility from a government institution or a
Government associated institution with the recommendation of the registrar, or obtains any
other similar grant, loan or an advance such receipts should be subject to the following
conditions.
(1) When it is required for a registered society, in order to achieve its stated objectives, to
possess a building, land or any other mobile or immobile property by way of, a purchase,
a lease, a gift, or in any other way, or similarly when it is  necessary to dispossess a land,
building or any other property by way of sale, lease, mortgage, in exchange, or in any
other way, the prior approval of the registrar should be obtained in writing by that society.
(2) (a) if a member, who is found guilty under article 41 where, an examination is made
in to the affairs of the society, or where an investigation was done in to the books
of accounts, or who is expelled or suspended under clause (2) of article 40, has
been re-elected in a subsequent period since the above examinations/enquiries/
investigations were concluded, such member should be removed from office as,
he/ she is not permitted to hold office for a period of seven years. Similarly. a
member on whom a decision has been made under articles 43(1)(a) or  43(1)(b)
is not entitled to hold office in any corporative society.
(b) If an officer of a registered society, in the opinion of the registrar, is found to be
not performing his/her duty as he/she should or as efficiently and productively as
required, or found wanting in duty in any other way under an inspection or an
investigation done under article 41, irrespective of what is stated in this precept
or in any other written law, that officer may be suspended from his post by a
written directive, pending an inquiry, after having afforded time for that officer to
submit reasons in his defence. If the officer is found guilty at the investigation
mentioned that officer cannot present himself for election to any office in a
registered corporative society. Further such an officer is ineligible to be appointed
to any office of a registered society within 7 years from the date that officer is
removed from office.
(c) If an officer of a registered society, in the opinion of the registrar, is found to be
not performing his/her duty as he/her should or as efficiently and productively as
required or found wanting in duty in any other way under an inspection or an
investigation done under article 41, irrespective of what is stated in this precept
or in any other written law, that officer may be suspended from his post by a
written order, pending an inquiry, after having afforded time for that officer to
submit reasons in his defence. If the officer is found guilty at the investigation
mentioned that officer cannot present himself for election to any office in a
registered corporative society. Further such an officer may not be appointed to
any office of a registered society within 7 years from the date that officer is
removed from office. However, if the subject officer is not satisfied with the
investigation that resulted in his removal from office, the officer concerned may
make an appeal to the Sothern Province Cooperative Commission within 30 days of
that removal. In such a situation the ruling given by the Southern Provincial
Cooperative Commissioner should be final.
certain
other matters
registrar has
to decide on
Special
conditions
Suspension
Of officers
& employees
and terminations

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
57. If the Registrar is of the opinion that the management of a particular registered society requires
some additional adequacy as to its capacity to ensure the protection of its depositor’s deposits,
the rights of its members, the security of the investments and deposits made by the government/
the Provincial Government or the deposits made in goods and trade arrangements, and therefore
forms the opinion that more members need to be nominated to the society’s executive
committee, the registrar may so appoint a number of members that he considers is necessary.
However, this should be subject to the rule that the number of members in the executive
committee should be less than half the number of members in the society. The registrar also
has powers to appoint the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman or both to the executive committee
and when that happens the members who presently function in those capacities may cease to
function by virtue of those appointments. Thus, irrespective of whatever is mentioned in written
law, after such appointments are made, the quorum of the  executive committee should be any
number more than half the number in the executive committee (including the number
appointed).
CHAPTER 12
Rules
58 (1). The Minister in charge of the subject could enact all rules regarding the formulation of
the policies, the enactment of provisions and the empowerment of work procedures
under this precept.
 (2). Such rules may, without affecting the generality of the powers bestowed specially or  by
article (1)
(a) determine the conditions under which a registration of a society is made and the
procedure required to apply for a registration.
(b) determine, the eligibility of the persons who could become members and the
conditions the members should follow in the conduct of the society, the procedure
in enlisting and electing members to the society from time to time and enact
provisions for the duties the members should perform, including their
contributions, before they could exercise their rights as members.
(c) enact provisions, for the resignation and expelling of members and for the
payments to be made to expelled and resigned members and for the responsibilities
of the former members.
 (d) determine the number of members in a registered society and the limit that  society
could impose on such membership.
 (e) make provisions to determine value of the relationship of deceased members and
to decide on the heir of the deceased member and the method of transfer of that
value.
(f) determine the maximum number of shares or share in capital of the society a
member of a registered society may hold subject to the provisions in clause (3)
of this article.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
34A
(g) determine, the conditions under which the dividends of a registered society could
be declared and the maximum quantum of such dividends that could be paid out
from society funds.
        (h) determine, on the General meetings and its conducting procedures, the powers to
be exercised at such meetings and the circumstances under which a particular
person may not be eligible to become a member of the executive committee or
the regional or branch executive committee of a registered society
        (i) make provisions with regard to the, appointment, suspension and dismissal of the
executive committee and other officers of the registered society, on the work
ethics of the executive committee and of other officers and on the powers to be
exercised and the duties to be performed by the Executive committee members
and other  officers.
(j) determine why and how a society should have a constitution and the procedure to
be followed in making, amending and rescinding a constitution and the conditions
associated with the making, amending and rescinding a constitution.
(k) determine the books of accounts to be maintained by a registered society and to
order the publication of a Balance sheet depicting the society’s assets and liabilities
at periodic intervals.
such audits, to administer and support existing societies, to propagate corporative
activities, to promote corporative education and local and foreign training, to work
towards the development of the corporative movement, to meet the requirements
of the registrar in attending to legal matters, to make arrangements to obtain
contributions from all societies to the Southern Provincial Council Corporative
development fund established under this precept, to prevent the evasion of
corporative fund payments and to administer and manage the funds of the registered
societies.
  (m) determine the reports to be submitted to the registrar, their manner, regularity and
the persons who should prepare such reports.
 (n) make provisions to arrange the manner and as to who should certify copies of
contents of a registered society’s books of accounts when issued as required.
  (o) make provisions to prepare and maintain a list of members in relation to their
shares when the responsibilities of each member to the society is dependent  on
the quantum of shares they hold.
(p) make provisions to create and maintain a reserve fund pronouncing the objectives
such funds may be utilised and to facilitate investment of funds of registered
societies.
(q) determine the method and manner in which a trading dispute could be solved and
when there is a breach of a trading agreement, constitution or violation of ethics
in selling goods through a society and the method of assessing the loss in such
situations.
 (r) determine the method and manner in appointing arbitrator or arbitrators and the
procedure of conducting arbitrations as against the implementation of the decisions

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
of arbitrators vs. the decision of the registrar and the monies to be deposited with
the registrar on account of appeals made.
 (s) determine the period within which a dispute could be referred to the registrar.
 (t) determine the conditions and the procedure under which an executive committee
of a registered society could be elected.
(u) determine the procedure to be followed in purchasing acquiring, selling and
disposing property.
(v) determine the practices and procedures to be followed in requesting financial aid
from the Government or the Provincial Council.
 (w) While it is possible to make an appeal to the Minister against rulings given by the
registrar, this precept may determine on issues that are expressly not stated.
 (x) determine the circumstances under which it would be possible to make
appeals against the directives issued and the procedure followed, by the
liquidator as per  article 47.
 (y) make provisions to establish and maintain a Corporative development fund account
as per article 37(1) (a) and determine the manner in which and the items on which
those funds could be dispensed.
(z) make provision to establish and maintain an Excess fund account as per article
53(3) and determine the manner in which and the items on which those funds
could  be disbursed.
(a
1) issue directives to make provisions to hold election to all area executive
Committees of Multi-Purpose Corporative Societies and to hold the
Annual General meetings of all other registered Corporative Societies
together with activities associated with those events.
(b
1) determine on the rules and the specimen structures under which appeals
could be made, cases examined, and suitable action taken under this precept
and also on the fees to be charged, the procedure to be followed together
with associated activities.
(3) No rules shall be enforced unless approved by the Southern Provincial Council.
(4) Once published in the gazette after having obtained the Provincial Council approval
with notification as per Clause (3) above, all the rules as per this precept should be
legitimate and enforceable as if enacted here.

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
36A
CHAPTER  13
Debts due to the Government and the Provincial Council
59 (1). Monies due on debts/loans or on guarantees, to the Government or to the Provincial
Council by a registered society or a member, former member or an officer of a registered
Society, should be recovered as per the provisions of the Government Creditors ordinance
and as per article 39(2) of this precept, such debts should receive priority over other
dues of the Society in situations described in Article 39.
  (2). Monies due from a registered Society to the government or to the Provincial Council
may be recovered first from the assets of the Society.  Secondly, with regard to a Society
limited by liability, it is recoverable from the members subject to the limits applicable
on liability and thirdly, with regard to unlimited Societies, it is recoverable  from
members with no limit on liability.
CHAPTER 14
 Fund Accounts
                       Cooperative Development Fund Account & the Excess Fund Account
60 (1). An Account titled Southern Province Cooperative Development Fund (hereinafter  called
the ‘Cooperative Development Fund Account’) will be established with the objective of
developing the corporative development activities within the Southern  Province.
 (2). This fund account should be in compliance with Section iii of the Provincial Council
Act, No.47 of 1987.
  (3). The following monies should be credited to this Fund account
(a) Monies received from registered Societies under Article 37(1) of this precept,
(b) Monies received as funds or as donations, contributions, from the government or
the Provincial Council,
(c) Donations and contributions received from Cooperative Societies or from
                 individuals or institutions.
(4). The registrar may expend the monies of this fund accounts on account of either one  or
many of the following purposes subject to the conditions specified hereinafter :
(a) on Cooperative Educational extension work, propagation work and Training,
(b) to increase the efficiency of the Cooperative Societies,
(c) to support Cooperative Societies,
(d) to meet all legal expense in managing the Cooperative Development Fund account,
(e) to meet all legal expenses incurred by the Southern Provincial Council Cooperative
Development Department in the course of implementing this precept.
Provisions
To recover
Loans due
To government
& Provincial C.
Cooperative
Development
Fund
Management
Account

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(f) to meet legal expense of an officer who may have been subjected to legal action
while performing his duties under the corporative law, when Government legal
assistance is not available.
 (g) to meet expenses that may be incurred in performing the audits of corporative
societies and in meeting expenses connected to development work.
(h) to meet expenses incurred in updating the Cooperative society member’s list and
the voters list.
(i) to bear the expenses in connection with persons and institutions directly engaged
in the corporative movement such as the society member, executive committee
member, employee ect..
(j) to meet expenses in the administration of the Corporative Development Fund
Account.
(5) To administer the Cooperative Development Fund Account, the Commissioner should
appoint a committee of seven persons and that committee will be the Fund Administering
Committee. The committee will consist of,
(a) The Registrar as the chairman of this committee while Deputy Cooperative
Development Commissioner ( Administration), an officer nominated by the
Secretary to the subject Minister, Assistant Commissioner of Cooperative
Development (Development), One Assistant Commissioner to represent the 3
districts, The Accountant of the department and one representative from the  three
District Director boards of the district corporative societies to represent the
corporative societies.
 (b) The quorum of a committee meeting is 4 and the committee will meet when
required, consider the claims made and decide on the payments.
 (6) (a) The Financial year of the Fund Account should be the normal calendar year;   from
January to December.
(b) Within three months from the end of every financial year, the Registrar should
forward a report to the Provincial Council through the Secretary to the Minister
of  Cooperative Development,
(c) The provisions of article 154 of the Constitution which deals with the auditing of
state institution accounts and the Sothern Provincial council rules should be
relevant in the  auditing of the Corporative Fund account.
61 (1). Southern province’s this excess fund account (hereinafter known as the Excess Fund
account) whose tasks is settle the liabilities and close down the societies whose
registration has been cancelled should be consistent with section 111 of No. 42 of the
Provincial Council Act of 1987.
(2). This excess fund account should be credited with the following funds;
(a). The amount lying to the credit of bank accounts and the cash in hand of the societies
whose registration has been cancelled, at the time of cancellation of the registration.
Excess Fund.

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
38A
(b) Amounts recovered by the liquidators.
(c) Any type of funds that are due on transactions performed prior to cancellation
(d) Amounts realised in disposing the assets.
 (3) The Registrar could expend funds on account of expenses as per clauses (1) and (2) of
article 52 of this precept. However, the total amount of such expenses paid on  behalf a
of a particular society should not exceed the total of funds collected against that society.
 (4) If an excess of funds remains, after having met the expenses mentioned in clause (3)
above, the registrar may authorize the use of such excess funds on one or more of the
following tasks;
(a) to purchase shares in any registered primary society or to support such a society
in any other way as ordered by the registrar
(b) To assist a registered society to purchase its non-mobile assets required in its
operations.
 (c) to help a liquidator when a civil case has been instituted against him on corporative
society liquidations carried out by him/her.
(d) to contribute to any other organisation with the objective of helping any particular
society or societies in general, registered under this precept.
 (e) to meet expenses incurred in administering the Corporative Development fund
(5) The Commissioner will appoint a committee of five persons to administer the excess
fund account and that committee will be the ‘Excess fund management Board’. That
committee will consist of;
(a) the Registrar as the chairman of the committee, Deputy Commissioner of Cooperative
Development(Administration), an officer of the Ministry nominated by the Secretary
of the Ministry, an Assistant Commissioner of Cooperative  Development and the
Accountant of the Cooperative department.
(b) The Quorum of the committee is three and the committee may meet as required,
consider the claims made and take decisions to pay or not to pay as the case may
be.
(6) (a) The financial year of the Excess Fund Account should be the calendar year from
January to December.
(b) Within three months after the end of every financial year, the registrar through the
Secretary to the Minister of Cooperative should submit a report of the Excess Fund
account to the Provincial Council.
(c) The provisions of the article 154 of the Sri Lanka Government Constitution on
state institution Audits and the Southern province’s rules should be applicable to
the Excess Fund account audits.

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
15TH  CHAPTER
Miscellaneous Matters
62. Irrespective of what is stated in this precept, the Minister may, as required in a situation by a
special order, subject to the conditions declared by him, exempt a particular society from a
particular rule stated in this precept.
63. The Minster may, by a special or general order, announce the exemption of a particular  society
or a group of societies registered under the provision of this precept or declare  that a particular
society or group of societies is subject to a change in the provisions as  from a particular date
specifically mentioned in the directive issued.
64 (1). No or ganisation, except with expressed permission from the Minister, should use the
words, ‘Eksath sahakara’ or ‘Samupakara’ in Sinhalese, ‘Aikkiya’ or ‘Kutturav’ in Tamil
or ‘Corporative’ in English, wholly or in part, or as a title other than by a registered
corporative society in the conduct of its business or industry. However, a person or an
organization that has been conducting its business or  industry under whatever name or
title before 22
nd September 1921, that person,  organization or his/her/its heir will not
be affected by what is stated in here.
     (2). Whoever the person who acts in contravention of this article, once found guilty at a
Summary trial in a Magistrate Court, will be subject to a maximum fine of rupees ten
thousand and in a situation where the offence continues to be committed after conviction,
an additional fine of Rs.100/ would be imposed for every single day that the offence is
continued to be committed after having found guilty.
65 (1). In the event of, an audit under article 39, an examination under article 41, an investigation
in to the books of accounts or on a closure of books of accounts at a liquidation of a
registered society, if it could be observed that certain monies or assets are due to the
society from a person or a group of persons, a current officer/employee or an ex officer/
employee, who had been engaged in the formation or in the management of that registered
society, due to the use of society funds in violation of the provisions of, either this
precept or any other precept, or rules enacted under such provisions, or as per the
provisions of the constitution of the society, or the executive orders of the society, or
the financial regulations sanctioned by the registrar or the common provisions issued
by the registrar or by the Corporative Employees Commission, the Registrar, upon a
request made either by  himself/herself, the executive committee, a member, a creditor,
the liquidator or a contributor, should inquire in to the conduct of such person/ group of
persons and  order as appropriate to;
(a) recover the full amount or a part of it together with an interest element the  registrar
may consider appropriate,
(b) reposes such property or part of it to the society, or
(c) contribute an amount of money determined to be sufficient as compensation
towards the assets of the society.
Minister’s special
power to exempt a
a society from
registration/
prescriptions.
Minister’s
Power to
Exempt a
Society from
Precept’s
provisions.
Limiting
the use of
‘corporative’

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
40A
However, before such an order is issued, the registrar should offer some reasonable
time to the person or group of persons so alleged to furnish reasons as to why
such an order should not be issued against them.  If that member is an employee,
the executive committee could order the termination of his services.
(2) In the event where an order has been made under clause (1) above to recover certain
monies or to make a contribution as compensation towards the assets of the registered
society, and when such order has been disregarded an application may be  made with a
certificate as per article 54(1)(a) of this precept to a Magistrate in whose purview the
place of business of the society  is registered  or in case when the order is made against
a person, a group of persons, an officer or an employee, the area where that person or
that group of persons, that officer or employee resides. Thereafter, that amount may be
recovered by way of a fine  imposed on that person, group of persons, officer or
employee as a punishment for an offence not liable to be punished by a term of
imprisonment but by an offence liable to be punished by imposing a fine. This recovery
should be in line with the article 291 (except its (a) and (c) paragraphs of clause (1)).
Further, the  Magistrate may also execute any other order relevant to this punishment at
the  time of imposing this fine.  However, the provision in this article may not bestow
any right or power on the Magistrate to examine, verify or judge the legitimacy or the
appropriateness of the registrar’s action with regard to this recovery.
(3) The contents of this article however should not be interpreted to mean or imply that a
person or group of persons encountered under clause (1) above, stands exonerated of
all other legal action brought against him/her/them under a different provision in law,
simply because an order has been made under this provision.
66 (1). The Chairman and every member of the executive committee of a registered society
should forward to the registrar, a personal assets and liability statement in the prescribed
format every year by registered post.  The subject statement should reflect  the status of
the members assets and liabilities for a particular year as at 31
st March of that year in
the following detail;
           (a). All assets and liabilities of his/ her own self
           (b). All assets and liabilities of his/her heir
           (c). All assets and liabilities of his/ her every child
 (2) The declaration as above under clause (1) should be made by the Chairman and  every
member of the executive committee of a registered society and should be made within
three months of such election or appointment and unless he/she ceases  to continue in
office, on the 1
st day of June in every year on a continuous basis from the day of the first
declaration.
 (3) A member elected or appointed to the executive office of a registered society or to the
District or Pradeshiya Executive committee, should within 14 days of such appointment
forward by registered post an affidavit to the registrar declaring that he/ she is not
ineligible to be elected/ appointed to such office.
   (4) A person who does not comply with provisions in clause (2) and (3) above will be
considered to have renounced his/her office by virtue of that act alone. Thereafter that
person/member may not be eligible to hold any office till the end of the remainder of
that office period.
Assets and
Liability
Statements
& Affidavits.

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
(5) If a declaration made under the above clauses (2) and (3) is found/proved to be false a
person/member who made that declaration will not be eligible to hold any office of a
corporative society for a period of seven years from the date such declaration was
confirmed.
67. Subsequent to an audit or an inspection of the books of accounts of a registered society as
provided in article 39 of this precept, if an employee, a member or an officer in his/her
capacity, having been in charge of, having had the proprietorship over or having had the custody
of, a certain asset, property or monies of the registered society, were found to have
misappropriated such asset, property or monies or are unable to account for some monies as
per the books kept or signed and certified by that officer, member or employee in their
respective capacities, it would be legitimate for the registrar to order  such member, officer
or employee to reimburse or forward the value of such assets  properties or monies.
Further, if that officer, employee or the member has failed to reimburse or forward the value
of subject assets, properties or monies as detailed in the direction issued by the  registrar, that
officer, employee or member would be guilty of the offence of criminal breach of trust and
upon pronouncing guilty at asummary trial before a Magistrate would be penalised in two
ways, by imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten years and also, by way of a fine. This
penalty should be enforced irrespective of whether such  imposition exceeds the general
judicial power of the Magistrate.
68 (1) (a). It is the responsibility of the current executive committee of every registered
society to make arrangements to elect a new executive committee to office within
three months of the expiry of the period of office of the current executive
committee.
(b). If that responsibility is not discharged as stated, the registrar may consider the
current executive committee as dissolved and appoint a Board of Management to
administer the society. That Board of management will enjoy the powers, privileges
and rights of an executive committee duly appointed by the society.
(c). That board of management should summon a general meeting of the society as per
the constitution and elect an executive committee within a period of 6 months of
their appointment.
  (2) (a). Further the Registrar has the power to appoint a Board of management for a
registered society under any of the following circumstances.
 (i) In a situation where the executive committee has resigned, and it is not
possible to elect a succeeding executive committee.
    (ii) When the general meeting has either evaded its responsibility or have not
taken steps to appoint an executive committee.
(iii) When the general body has proposed and sanctioned that the management of
the society should be done by a Board appointed by the registrar for a
prescribed period.
Penalties for
Breach of trust
Power to
Appoint a
Board of
Management

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
42A
 (b) The Board of management when appointed under above circumstance should call
for a general meeting and facilitate the election of an executive committee within
six months of their appointment. The Board of management so appointed, may
exercise the rights powers and privileges of an executive committee duly
appointed.
(3) (a) Further, in a situation where it is not permissible to comply with article 68(1)
such as when the Courts have issued an interim injunction or in a situation where
the General body or the executive committee has been rendered inoperative by an
interim or final order of the judiciary, the Commissioner should present facts to
the Courts through a motion and obtain permission to appoint a Board of
management. Such a Board may exercise the power privileges and the rights of an
executive committee duly appointed.
 (b) The said board of management may, unless ordered otherwise by the Courts,
facilitate the election of an executive committee within six months of its
appointment.
(4) In addition to this article, the registrar has been conferred with the power to appoint a
Board of management also by articles 38, 43, 56 and 57.
69. It is legitimate for an officer of the Corporative Development department to investigate or to
conduct an examination or to direct prosecution under chapter XV11 of the Criminal Procedure
Code No. 45 of 1979, on a particular issue of a registered society.
70. Irrespective of whatever is available in any other written law, the registrar may, at any time
he/she considers opportune,
 (1) request information on a bank transaction entered in to by any registered society.
(2) Request the copy of a leger account maintained by the bank on behalf of a registered
society, as it is.
 (3) order a bank to forward a cheque paid by the bank to the credit of the society with the
counter sanctioning of the society.
71. The provisions of the Companies act and the Trade Union Ordinance or provisions of the
precepts that amend those Acts should not be applicable to the societies registered under this
precept.
72 (1). The Corporative societies registered under Corporative Act, No. 5 of 1972, amended By
the Corporative Amendment Act, No.32 of 1983 and Corporative Amendment Special
Provisions Act, No.11 of 1992 and those registered  under Corporative societies (special
provisions) Act, No. 34 of 1970, are considered as corporative societies registered under
this precept and therefore, should follow this precept. The members and officers of such
societies should treat their legal, constitutional, executive committee orders, disputes and
appeals procedures etc. as procedures enacted under this precept.
 (2). All the rules in force at the time of commencement of this precept, to the extent that
those rules fall in line with the provisions of this precept, should be considered as rules
that are made under this precept and such rules should be in force, until new  rules are
enacted in place under article 58.
As to who
Who should
File & prosecute
Cases
to obtain bank
information
Company’s Act
& Trade Union
Ordinance
Power to execute
And amend
current
laws and the
way forward

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
 (3). Prior to the establishment of this precept, any appointments made or directives issued,
notices and notifications issued or considered to have been issued, verdicts issued or
considered to have been issued by arbitrators, civil and other Court cases filed or
considered to have been filed and disputes that have arisen, should be considered as far
as possible as accomplished, issued and arisen under this precept.
73 (1) As per this precept, any member, officer or employee of a registered society, who
wilfully evade or refuse to abide by an order or to supply an item of information requested
by the registrar or by a person duly authorised by the registrar,
or
any person who disobey summons, or a legitimate written order issued under this  precept,
deliberately or without a reasonable excuse,
or
any person who refuses to supply certain information that has been prescribed by a
person empowered to do so under this precept
or
a member, Officer or employee of a registered society who submits false information,
is guilty of having committed an offence under this precept.
 (2) A person who has committed an offence under clause (1) above, having found guilty at a
summary trial before a Magistrate, should be subjected to an imprisonment for a period
not exceeding 2 years in one of the two ways or to a fine not exceeding Rs.  50,000/ or
to the fine and the imprisonment both. The person should be subjected to Penalty,
irrespective of whether it exceeds the general judicial power of a magistrate.
 (3) A person penalised under clause (2) above should be disqualified from holding  Office,
or being appointed to an office, of a registered corporative society.
74 (1) In an instance where a registered society has committed an offence and if an obligation
has been breached in the process, the officers concerned is bound by the constitution to
discharge that obligation or in the absence of such an officer, the entire membership of
the executive committee, unless proved that the subject member has been either unaware
that he/she was committing an offence or has taken every conceivable effort to prevent
that offence from taking place, would be subjected to the same penalty that the officer
concerned would have been subjected to.
(2) It is not permissible under this precept, to file civil or criminal action, either against the
Registrar, against the Deputy commissioners, against the Senior Assistant
Commissioners, against the Assistant Commissioners or any other person empowered
by the Registrar as per the provisions of this precept, on an issue that has arisen during
the course of duty performed with good intentions by any of the above officers.
75. A registered society will have no authority to incur or sanction any expenses for the purpose
of maintaining a Court case against any action taken by or, the decisions arrived at, by  the
registrar, in accordance with the provisions of this precept.
76. Unless the terms used in this precept are called for definition, the term ‘constitution’should
mean the constitutions currently registered and the amendments registered there to, and in
force within the Southern Provincial Council.
 The term ‘Executive Committee’ should mean the management body that has assumed to
manage the affairs of the corporative society, the Board of Directors of a registered
society and includes persons appointed by the registrar under articles 43,44 and 55.
Penalty for
not adhering
to the precept
Indemnity of
The Registrar
etc.

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'02'15
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 15.02.2019
44A
The term ‘officer’ should mean the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, the Secretary, Treasurer or
other executive committee members who have been elected by the membership or
duly appointed to the office of a registered society or branch.
 The term ‘Provincial Council’ should mean the Southern Provincial Council.
 The term ‘Minister’ should mean the Minister in charge of the subject of corporative in the
Southern Provincial Council .
The term ‘Primary Society’ should mean a registered society, other than a society formed
for a particular purpose or to accomplish a task as per paragraphs 36(1)(b), (c) and (D).
The term ‘Rule’ should mean the rules enacted or considered to have been enacted under
this precept.
The term ‘Employee’ should mean a person employed by and being a paid a salary or
wagesfrom the corporative society’s funds.
The term ‘Government fund’ should include all loans, advances, donations, grants or other
such contributions made by the Government or the Southern Provincial Council, the
advances, donations, grants and subsidies made as per articles 59 and 60 of the
precept, monies and loans obtained from other institutions with the recommendation
or the sanction of the registrar and monies payable by the registrar.
The term ‘Registrar’ should mean the Southern Provincial Council cooperative Development
Commissioner appointed to discharge the duties of a Corporative society registrar
under this precept.
     The term ‘Officer of the Cooperative department’ should include the Deputy Cooperative
Development commissioner or registrar, Senior Area Assistant Commissioner of
Cooperative development, Assistant Commissioner of Cooperative Development,
District Development officers, Head Quarter Development officers and Corporative
development officers.
The term ‘Registered society’ should mean a society or association registered or  considered
to have been registered under this precept.
The term ‘Member’ should mean the persons who caused the application to be registered as
a society and those who have been enrolled as members subject to the rules and the
constitution subsequent to the registration.
The term ‘Full Member’ should mean a member who has paid up the share capital prescribed
by the constitution and who has completed one year after being sanctioned by the
membership. The share capital has to be completed within a year to be admitted as a
full member.
77. In the event of an inconsistency in the meaning expressed between the Sinhala language and
the Tamil language versions of this precept, the meaning of the Sinhala language version will
prevail.
The prevalence
of  Sinhala
version
In case of an
inconsistency
03 -208
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.