

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2074$13 - 2018 cqks ui 05 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2018'06'05
No. 2074/13 - TUESDAY,  JUNE 05, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A  - PG   4064 — 507 (06/2018)
THE  DIPLOMATIC  PRIVILEGES  ACT,  No.  9  OF  1996
Order under Section 4
BY  virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of the Agreement
between the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Government of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, entered into on 07th December, 2005 the relevant articles of which Agreement are
recited in the Schedule hereto.
T
ILAK MARAPANA M. P .,
Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Colombo,
4th June, 2018.
SCHEDULE
A
RTICLE VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED NA TIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR
REFUGEES AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
ARTICLE VII
Privileges and Immunities
1. The Government shall apply to UNHCR, its property, funds and assets, and to its officials and experts on mission
the relevant provisions of the General Convention. The Government also agrees to grant UNHCR and its personnel
such additional privileges and immunities as may be mutually determined to be necessary for the effective exercise
of the international protection and humanitarian assistance functions of UNHCR.
2. Without prejudice to paragraph I of this Article, the Government shall in particular extend to UNHCR and its
personnel the privileges, immunities, rights and facilities provided in Article VIII to X of this Agreement.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
2A
ARTICLE  VIII
UNHCR Office, Property, Funds and Assets
1. UNHCR, its property, funds and assets, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from every
form of legal process, except in so far as in any particular case it has expressly waived its immunity ; it being
understood that this waiver shall not extend to any measure of execution.
2. The premises of UNHCR office shall be inviolable. The property, funds and assets of UNHCR, wherever situated
and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation and any other
form of inference, whether by executive, administrative, judicial or legislative action.
3. The archives of UNHCR, and in general all documents belonging to or held by it, shall be inviolable,
4. The funds, assets, income and other property of UNHCR shall be exempt from ;
(a) Any form of direct taxation, provided that UNHCR will not claim exemption from untaxed charges for
public utility services ;
(b) Customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions or articles imported or exported by UNHCR for its official
use, provided that articles imported under such exemption will not be sold in the country except under
conditions agreed upon with the Government ;
(c) Customs duties and prohibitions and restrictions in respect of the import and export of its publications.
5. The import or supply of goods and services to UNHCR and international officials as defined in Article X. I.
below will be exempted from Value Added Tax (V AT) as granted under Protocol Note Verbale Number PR/POL/
01 dated 4th June 2002, and from other duties or taxes afforded to Diplomatic Missions.
6. Any materials imported, exported or purchased in the country by UNHCR either directly or by an international
implementing partner duly accredited by UNHCR to act on its behalf in connection with the humanitarian assistance
to refugees, and provided the consignee remains UNHCR, shall be exempt from customs duties, prohibitions and
restrictions as well as from direct or indirect tax.
7. UNHCR shall not be subject to any financial controls, regulations or moratoria and may freely :
(a) Acquire from authorized commercial agencies, hold and use negotiable currencies, maintain foreign-
currency accounts, and acquire through authorized institutions, hold and use funds, securities and gold ;
(b) Bring funds, securities, foreign currencies and gold into the host country from any other country, use them
within the host country or transfer them to other countries.
8. UNHCR shall enjoy the most favourable legal rate of exchange.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
3A
ARTICLE  IX
Communication Facilities
1. UNHCR shall enjoy, in respect of its official communications, treatment not less favourable than that accorded
by the Government to any other Government, including its diplomatic missions, or to the other inter governmental,
international organizations in terms of priorities, tariffs and charges on mail, cablegrams, telephotos, telephone,
telegraph, telex and other communications, as well as rates for information to the press and radio.
2. The Government shall secure the inviolability of the official communications and correspondence of UNHCR
and shall not apply any censorship to its communications and correspondence, Such inviolability, without limitation
by reason of this enumeration, shall extend to publications, photographs, slides, films and sound recordings.
3. UNHCR shall have the right to use codes and to dispatch and receive correspondence and other materials by
courier or in sealed bags which shall have the same privileges and immunities as diplomatic couriers and bags.
4. The Government shall ensure that UNHCR be enabled to effectively operate its radio and other
telecommunications equipment, including satellite communications systems, on networks using the frequencies
allocated by or coordinated with the competent national authorities under the applicable International
Telecommunication Union’s regulations and norms currently in force.
ARTICLE  X
UNHCR Officials
1. The UNHCR Representative shall enjoy, while in the country, in respect of himself, spouse and dependents, the
privileges and immunities, exemptions and facilities normally accorded to diplomatic envoys. For this purpose
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall include his name in the Diplomatic List.
2. UNHCR officials, while in the country, shall enjoy the following facilities, privileges and immunities.
(a) Immunity from personal arrest and detention ;
(b) Immunity from legal process in respect of words spoken or written and all acts performed by them in their
official capacity, such immunity to continue even after termination of employment with UNHCR.
(c) Immunity from inspection and seizure of their official baggage ;
(d) Immunity from any military service obligations or any other obligatory service ;
(e) Exemption, with respect to themselves, their spouses, their relatives dependent on them and other members
of their households, from immigration restriction and alien registration ;
(f) Exemption from taxation in respect of salaries and all other remuneration paid to them by the
UN/UNHCR ;
(g) Prompt clearance and issuance, without cost, of visas, licenses or permits, if required, and free movement
within, to or from the country to the extent necessary for the carrying out of UNHCR’s international
protection and humanitarian assistance programmes ;
(h) The same privileges in respect of exchange facilities as are accorded to officials of comparable rank
forming part of the UNDP office in Sri Lanka;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
4A
(i)   The same protection and repatriation facilities with respect to themselves, their spouses and relatives
dependent on them and other members of their households as are accorded in time of international crisis to
diplomatic envoys ;
(j) The right to import ;
(i) Within 06 months of first taking up their post in Sri Lanka, free of duty, taxes and other levies,
prohibitions and restrictions on imports, their furniture, appliances, and other effects including
automobiles and other articles for personal use and consumption and not for gift or sale. Any goods
and articles imported under such exemption shall normally be re-exported and shall not be sold
within Sri Lanka, except with the prior permission of and subject to such terms as may be agreed
upon with the Government. It sold within Sri Lanka, such goods and articles will be liable to normal
duties and taxes, and ;
(ii) After first taking up their posts in Sri Lanka, free of duty, taxes and other levies, and without prohibition
and restrictions on imports, reasonable quantities of food stuff and other articles for personal use
and consumption and not for gift or sale, in accordance with applicable procedures and existing rules
as established between the Government and the UNDP.
(iii) UNHCR officials, who are nationals of, or permanent residents in the host country, shall enjoy those
privileges and immunities provided for in the General Convention.
ARTICLE  XI
Locally recruited personnel assigned to hourly rates
1. Persons recruited locally and assigned to hourly rates to perform services for UNHCR shall enjoy immunity
from legal process in respect of words spoken or written and any act performed by them in their official capacity.
2. The terms and conditioins of employment for locally recruited personnel assigned to hourly rates shall be in
accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions, regulations and rules and the applicable laws and
regulations of Sri Lanka.
ARTICLE  XII
Experts on Mission
1. Expert performing missions for UNHCR shall be accorded such facilities, privileges and immunities as are
necessary for the independent exercise of their functions. In particular they shall be accorded ;
(a) Immunity from personal arrest or detention ;
(b) Immunity from legal process of every kind in respect of words spoken or written and acts done by them in
the course of the performance of their  mission. This immunity shall continue to be accorded notwithstanding
that they are no longer employed on missions for UNHCR ;
(c) Inviolability for all papers and documents ;
(d) For the purpose of their official communications, the right to use codes and to receive papers or
correspondence by courier or in sealed bags ;
(e) The same facilities in respect of currency or exchange restrictions as are accorded to representative of
foreign governments on temporary official missions ;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
5A
(f) The same immunities and facilities including immunity from inspection and seizure in respect of their
personnel baggage as are accorded to diplomatic envoys.
ARTICLE  XIII
Persons performing services on behalf of UNHCR
1. Except as the Parties may otherwise agree, the Government shall grant to all persons performing services on
behalf of UNHCR other than nationals of the host country employed locally, the privileges and immunities
specified in Article V , Section 18, of the  General Convention, In addition, they shall be granted.
(a) Prompt clearance and issuance, without cost of visas, licenses or permits necessary for the effective exercise
of their functions ;
(b) Free movement within, to or from the country, to the extent necessary for the implementation of the
UNHCR humanitarian programme.
ARTICLE  XIV
Waiver of Immunity
Privileges and immunities are granted to UNHCR personnel in the interests of the United Nations and UNHCR
and not for the personnel benefit of the individuals concerned. The Secretary-General of the United Nations may
waive the immunity of any of UNHCR personnel in any case where, in his opinion, the immunity would impede
the course of justice and it can be waived without prejudice to the interests of the United Nations and UNHCR.
06- 792/1
THE  DIPLOMATIC  PRIVILEGES  ACT,  No.  9  OF  1996
Order under Section 4
BY  virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of the
program of the Peace Corps, to the extent necessary to give effect to the terms of the Agreement between The Government
of the United States of America and the  the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, entered into
on 26th February, 2018 the relevant articles of which Agreement are recited in the Schedule hereto.
T
ILAK MARAPANA M. P.,
Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Colombo,
4th June, 2018.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
6A
SCHEDULE
ARTICLES II, III, IV , V OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA CONCERNING THE PROGRAM OF THE PEACE CORPS IN THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
ARTICLE  II
1. The Government of Sri Lanka shall accord equitable treatment to the V olunteers and persons performing functions
under contract with the Peace Corps and their dependents and property, accord them and their property full aid
and protection, including treatment no less favourable than that accorded generally to nationals of the United
States residing in Sri Lanka, and fully inform, consult, and cooperate with representatives of the United States
with respect to all matters concerning them.
2. The Government of Sri Lanka shall provide to the V olunteers the same exemptions with respect to ;
(a) taxes on payments that they receive to defray their living costs, on income derived from their officials
duties, and on income from other sources outside Sri Lanka ;
(b) customs duties or other charges on their personal property introduced  into Sri Lanka for their own use ;
and
(c) all other taxes or other charges (including immigration/visas fees), except license fees
as it provides to members of the administrative and technical staff of the Embassy of the United States in
accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
3. The Government of Sri Lanka shall issue residence permits and visas to the V olunteers on terms no less favourable
than it issues such permits and visas to experts, senior volunteers, members of missions and their families of any
international organization performing a similar mission in Sri Lanka, to include issuing residence permits and
multiple entry visas without fee or other charge.
ARTICLE  III
1. The Government of the United States shall provide the V olunteers, the Peace Corps Representative, and staff of
the Representative with such limited quantities of equipment and supplies as the two government may consider
necessary to unable the V olunteers to perform their tasks effectively.
2. The Government of Sri Lanka shall exempt from all taxes (including value-added taxes) customs duties, and other
charges all equipment, supplies, and other goods and services introduced into or acquired in Sri Lanka by the
Government of the United States, or any contractor financed by it, for use hereunder.
ARTICLE  IV
1. To enable the Government of the United States to discharge its responsibilities under this agreement, the
Government of Sri Lanka shall receive a Peace Corps Representative and such staff of the Representative (including
employees and persons performing functions under contract with Peace Corps as designated by the Peace Corps
Representative) and members of their families forming part of their households, as are acceptable to the
Government of Sri Lanka. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other agreement, the Government of Sri Lanka
shall exempt such persons, and members of their families forming part of their households who are not citizens
or permanent residents of Sri Lanka from all taxes or income derived from their Peace Corps work or other
sources outside Sri Lanka, from all customs duties and other charges on their personal property introduced into

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
7A
Sri Lanka for their own use, and from all other taxes or other charges (including immigration/visa fees) except
license fees. In addition, such persons, and members of their families forming part of their households, shall be
accorded status equivalent to that accorded administrative and technical staff personnel of the diplomatic mission
of the United States, except they shall not be accorded immunities.
2. The Government of Sri Lanka shall issue residence permits and visas (including multiple entry visas), without fee
or other charges, to the Peace Corps Representative, staff, and individuals performing functions under this
agreement, and members of their families forming part of their households.
ARTICLE  V
The Government of Sri Lanka shall exempt from investment and deposit requirements and currency controls all funds
introduced into Sri Lanka for use in accordance with this agreement by the Government of the United States or contractors
financed by it. Such funds shall be convertible into the currency  of Sri Lanka at the highest rate that is not unlawful in Sri
Lanka.
06-792/2
THE  DIPLOMATIC  PRIVILEGES  ACT,  No.  9  OF  1996
Order under Section 4
BY  virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of the
Economic Development Cooperation Fund Representatives, staff, families and office, to the extent necessary to give
effect to the terms of Article 6 of the Arrangement between Government of the Republic of Korea and the  Government
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka concerning loans from the Economic Development Cooperation Fund
for the years 2017 through 2019, entered into on 29th November, 2017 the relevant articles of which Agreement are
recited in the Schedule hereto.
T
ILAK MARAPANA M. P .,
Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Colombo,
4th June, 2018.
SCHEDULE
FRAMEWORK ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC S OCIALIST R EPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA AND THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE R EPUBLIC OF K OREA CONCERNING LOANS FROM THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION FUND FOR
THE YEARS 2017 THROUGH 2019
2. The Sri Lanka Government shall accord the Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as the
Office, the following privileges, exemptions and benefits.
(a) For Representatives, the Staff members and their families :
(i) exemption from income tax and other fiscal charges imposed on or in connection with any emoluments
or allowances remitted to them from overseas ;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
8A
(ii) exem ption from consular fees, customs duties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature, other than
those for storage, cartage and similar services, in respect of the importation of personal and household
effects, including one motor vehicle for each of the Representatives and the Staff members with
exemption from registration fees, annual revenue license fees and driving license fees, provided that
such imports are made within six (6) months of the arrival of the Representatives and the Staff
members ;
(iii) exemption from special consumption tax and V AT for a motor vehicle for each of the Representatives
and foreign expert staff members, except locally recruited Sri Lankans, who are entitled to import a
duty free/tax free motor vehicle for the personal use of the Staff members ;
(iv) in case of the local purchase, the Representatives and the Staff members except locally recruited Sri
Lankan will be allowed to purchase a motor vehicle without taxes from the privileges person or
privileged organizations who already imported duty free vehicles through the Diplomatic Privileges
Act, Temporary recruited staff members are not entitled to import or buy a duty free vehicle.
(v) permission to enter, leave and sojourn in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the
duration of their assignment therein, and the expending and facilitation of the procedures for alien
registration and exemption from consular fees ;
(vi) issuance of one-month entry visas, by the relevant authorities of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, to the Representatives, the staff members and their families for their entry into the
country, and upon their arrival in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, issuance of multiple-
entry residence visas valid for the duration of their assignment, by the Controller General of the
Department of Immigration and Emigration of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on
the recommendation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, in accordance with the prevailing immigration laws of  the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka ;
(vii) notification to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of
the arrival of the Representatives and the Staff members, and issuance of diplomatic identification
cards to the representatives and foreign expert identification cards to the other Staff members to
secure the cooperation of all government agencies necessary for the performance of the duties of
the Representative and the Staff members ; and
(viii) issuance of special passes to the representatives to enter airport/seaports beyond the passport control
point to receive and/or send off experts and missions of bank ; Permanent Airport access pass will be
issued for the representatives ; Seaport access may be facilitated based on the request/need.
(b) For the Office :
(i) exemption from customs duties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature, other than those for
storage, cartage and similar services, as well as from the requirements of obtaining import licenses
and certificates of foreign exchange coverage, in respect of the importation of the Office equipment.
(ii) importation, free of customs duties, or local purchase, free of special consumption tax and value
added tax, of motor vehicles necessary for the Office activities, provided that the number of cars is
agreed between the relevant authorities of the two Governments.
(iii) exemption from income tax and other fiscal charges imposed on or in connection with funds for the
Office expenses remitted from overseas ; and
(iv) exemption from value added tax imposed on the office rent ;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
9A
(c) Other measures necessary for the performance of the duties of the Representatives, the Staff members and
the Office.
3. The motor vehicles mentioned in paragraph 2 above shall be subject to the payment of customs duties and taxes
if they are subsequently sold or transferred within the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to individuals
or organizations not entitled to exemption from such duties and taxes or similar privileges.
4. The Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as the Office, importing goods free of customs
duties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature, in accordance with sub-paragraphs (a)(ii) and (b)(i) and (ii) of
paragraph 2 above, shall present details of such goods to the authority concerned of the Sri Lanka Government to
assist with import and re-export formalities.
5. The  Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as Office, shall re-export sell within the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka or grant to the Sri Lankan Government on its approval of the goods
imported free of customs duties, taxes and other charges of a similar nature in accordance with the laws and
regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
6. The Sri Lankan Government shall accord the Representatives, the Staff members and their families, as well as the
Office, privileges, exemptions and benefits no less favourable than those accorded to the representatives, staff
members and their families, as well as the offices, of executing agencies of any third country or of any international
organization performing a similar mission in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. These privileges
shall not be applicable to Sri Lankan nationals.
06-792/3
THE  DIPLOMATIC  PRIVILEGES  ACT,  No.  9  OF  1996
Order under Section 4
BY  virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 4 of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996, I, Tilak Marapana,
Minister of Foreign Affairs, do by this Order, declare that the provisions of the aforesaid Act shall apply in respect of the
Delegation of German Industry and Commerce to the  extent necessary to give effect to the terms of the Agreement
between Government of the Federal Republic of Germany and the  Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka, entered into on 06th March, 2018 the relevant articles of which Agreement are recited in the Schedule hereto.
T
ILAK MARAPANA M. P .,
Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Colombo,
4th June, 2018.
SCHEDULE
ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE D EMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S RI LANKA AND THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DELEGATION OF GERMAN INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE IN
SRI L ANKA
2. The purpose of the Delegation is to promote trade and economic relations between companies, organizations and
tradespersons from the Federal Republic of Germany and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. It
shall lobby for the interests of business from both countries and promote commercial activity in both directions.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'06'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 05.06.2018
10A
The Delegation shall not pursue profit-oriented objectives. It is entitled to charge fees for its services to recoup
its costs.
3. The Delegation shall be registered with the relevant authority of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
as the representation of the German Association of Chambers of Industry and Commerce (DIHK). The Delegation
shall be located in Colombo, It may, in accordance with the law applicable in Sri Lanka, establish and maintain
other branch offices in the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The Delegation shall
have the possibility to conclude cooperation arrangements for the purposes referred to in paragraph 2 above
with, inter alia, Germany Trade and Investment (GTAI).
4. The Delegation shall be financed by allocations from the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy of
the Federal Republic of Germany and the DIHK. Payments made directly or indirectly by the Federal Republic of
Germany or the DIHK to the Delegation for the purpose of covering costs shall be exempt from direct taxes. The
Delegation is permitted to have bank accounts in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and in the
Federal Republic of Germany and any foreign currency received by the Delegation may be transferred freely at
any time and without restrictions between  the Federal Republic of Germany and the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka in both directions.
5. Persons working for the Delegation in coordination with or on behalf of the DIHK for the purposes specified in
paragraphs 2 above and their family members (spouse and their children who are minors or are undergoing
training) are not members of the diplomatic missions or consular posts of the Federal Republic of Germany in
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. They do not enjoy the privileges and immunities granted to the
staff of such missions and posts.
6. The competent authorities in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka shall issue residence permits to the
persons specified in paragraph 5 above expeditiously within the scope of the applicable laws and regulations. The
residence permits shall entitle the bearer to multipile entries and exits for the duration of its validity. In accordance
with the national law of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the permits shall be initially issued for
a year and renewed yearly. A residence permits in the form of a visa must be obtained from one of the diplomatic
missions or career-consular posts of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before entry into the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to take up employment. Applications to extend the permit’s validity
may be submitted in the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
7. The persons specified in paragraph 5 above do not require work permits to perform their activities at the Delegation.
8. The number of staff employed by the Delegation shall be in a reasonable proportion to the purpose for which it
was established.
9. The salaries, wages and similar earnings of the persons referred to in paragraph 5 above shall be subject to
taxation in accordance with the relevant agreement between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and capital
and in accordance with the relevant applicable laws and regulations.
10. In accordance with existing laws, rules, and regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The
Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka shall grant the persons specified in paragraph 5
above an exemption from customs duties and other charges levied upon the import and re-export of personal
property brought into the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka within 12 months of their
move there.
06- 792/4
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.