

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
————————
Presented by the Minister of  Foreign Affairs on 09th of October, 2018
(Published in the Gazette on September 17, 2018)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
Price : Rs. 130.00 Postage : Rs. 55.00
2-2dp
2-
————————
[Bill No. 268]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
COUNTER TERRORISM
to make provision for the protection of Sri Lanka and the people of
Sri Lanka from acts of terrorism and other offences associated with
terrorism; for the prevention of terrorism and other offences associated
with terrorism commited within or outside Sri Lanka; for the prevention of
the use of Sri Lankan territory and its people for the preparation for
terrorism outside Sri Lanka; to provide for the detection of acts of terrorism
and other offences associated with terrorism; and to provide for the
identification, apprehension, arrest, custody, detention, investigation,
prosecution and punishment of any person who has committed an act of
terrorism or any other offence associated with terrorism; for the repeal of
the Prevention of Terrorism  (Temporary Provisions)  Act, No. 48 of 1979;
and  for  matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

<!-- page 2 -->

1Counter Terrorism
L.D.—O. 2/2017.
AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE PROTECTION OF SRI LANKA AND
THE PEOPLE OF SRI LANKA FROM ACTS OF TERRORISM AND OTHER
OFFENCES ASSOCIATED WITH TERRORISM; FOR THE PREVENTION OF
TERRORISM AND OTHER OFFENCES ASSOCIATED WITH TERRORISM
COMMITED WITHIN OR OUTSIDE SRI LANKA; FOR THE PREVENTION OF
THE USE OF SRI LANKAN TERRITORY AND ITS PEOPLE FOR THE
PREPARATION FOR TERRORISM OUTSIDE SRI LANKA; TO PROVIDE FOR
THE DETECTION OF ACTS OF TERRORISM AND OTHER OFFENCES
ASSOCIATED  WITH  TERRORISM ; AND TO PROVIDE  FOR  THE
IDENTIFICATION, APPREHENSION, ARREST, CUSTODY, DETENTION,
INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION AND PUNISHMENT OF ANY PERSON WHO
HAS COMMITTED AN ACT OF TERRORISM OR ANY OTHER OFFENCE
ASSOCIATED WITH TERRORISM; FOR THE REPEAL OF THE PREVENTION
OF TERRORISM (TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 48 OF 1979;
AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS, terrorism has seriously threatened the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Sri Lanka, and has
caused deaths and serious injury to the citizens of Sri Lanka,
and has caused vast damage to public and private property
of Sri Lanka, and has retarded national development:
AND WHEREAS, terrorism in its various forms and
manifestations is a major threat to the peace and security of
the community of nations; and, it is a foremost duty of the
Government to protect Sri Lanka, its people, and property
from possible future acts of terrorism and related acts:
AND WHEREAS , Sri Lanka is under obligation to enact
laws to give domestic legal effect to international instruments
relating to countering of terrorism to which Sri Lanka has
become a signatory:
AND WHEREAS, the Government of Sri Lanka is committed
to protect other sovereign nations and their people from the
scourge of terrorism;
5
10
15
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Counter Terrorism
5
10
15
AND WHEREAS, Sri Lanka is committed and desirous of
eradicating and preventing domestic and international
terrorism through enforcing an effective system for the
administration of criminal justice against terrorism, based
on international norms and standards and domestic needs:
AND WHEREAS, the Government of Sri Lanka is mindful of
the need to ensure just and fair application of the system for
the administration of criminal justice against terrorism:
NOW THEREFOR BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the Counter Terrorism
Act, No.      of 2018.
PART  I
APPLICATION OF THE ACT AND OFFENCES
2. (1) The provisions of this Act shall apply to–
(a) any citizen of Sri Lanka, who commits an
offence under this Act, within or outside the
territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka;
(b) any person who commits an offence under
this Act –
(i) wholly or partly, in Sri Lanka;
(ii) in or over territorial waters of Sri Lanka;
(iii) in the airspace of Sri Lanka;
(iv) on-board or in respect of an aircraft
or vessel registered in Sri Lanka or
belonging to or used by the
Government of Sri Lanka;
Short title.
Application
of the Act.
20
25

<!-- page 4 -->

3Counter Terrorism
(v) wholly or partly within the office
premises of a diplomatic mission of
Sri Lanka, or a consular Post or officer
of Sri Lanka, or at the residence of the
Head of such diplomatic mission or
consular post or at the residence of any
diplomatic or consular officer or any
other employee of such mission or post;
(vi) wholly or partly within the office
premises situated outside Sri Lanka of
a statutory board of the government of
Sri Lanka or within the residence of an
employee of such statutory board;
(c) any person, who commits an offence under
this Act, within or outside the territory of the
Republic of Sri Lanka in respect of –
(i) a citizen of Sri Lanka including a
citizen deployed in an international
peace-keeping or monitoring mission;
(ii) a property owned by the Government
of Sri Lanka;
(d) any person who had been a citizen of Sri
Lanka,and commits an offence under this Act,
within or outside the territory of the Republic
of Sri Lanka:
Provided however, provisions of this Act
shall be enforced in respect of such person,
only if he continues to have his habitual
residence in Sri Lanka:
Provided further,that if he does not have
his habitual residence in Sri Lanka,
provisions of this Act, may be enforced with
the concurrence of the foreign State of which
he is a citizen; and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Counter Terrorism
(e) any person who has his habitual residence in
Sri Lanka, commits an offence under this Act,
within or outside the territory of the Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall not be enforced to
identify, detect, apprehend, arrest, take custody of, detain,
investigate or prosecute a person who commits any offence
other than an offence within the meaning of this Act,
notwithstanding the complexity, aggravated nature or
seriousness of the consequences of such offence and the
difficulties that may be associated with conducting
investigations into such offence, in terms of the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act or other relevant
written law.
3. (1) Any person, who commits any act referred to in
subsection (2), with the intention of –
(a) intimidating a population;
(b) wrongfully or unlawfully compelling the
government of Sri Lanka, or any other government,
or an international organization, to do or to abstain
from doing any act;
(c) preventing any such government from functioning;
or
(d) causing harm to the territorial integrity or
sovereignty of Sri Lanka or any other sovereign
country,
shall be guilty of the offence of terrorism.
(2) An act referred to in subsection (1) shall be -
(a) murder, attempted murder, grievous hurt,
hostage taking or abduction of any person;
Offence of
Terrorism.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Counter Terrorism
(b) endangering the life of any person other than
the person committing the act;
(c) causing serious damage to property,
including public or private property, any
place of public use, a State or Governmental
facility, any public or private transportation
system or any infrastructure facility or
environment;
(d) causing serious obstruction or damage to
essential services or supplies;
(e) committing the offence of robbery, extortion
or theft, in respect of State or private property;
(f) causing serious risk to the health and safety
of the public or a section thereof;
(g) causing obstruction or damage to, or
interference with, any electronic or automated
or computerized system or network or cyber
environment of domains assigned to, or
websites registered with such domains
assigned to Sri Lanka;
(h) causing obstruction or damage to, or
interference with any critical infrastructure
or logistic facility associated with any
essential service or supply;
(i) causing destruction or damage to religious
or cultural property or heritage; and
(j) causing obstruction or damage to, or
interference with any electronic, analog,
digital or other wire-linked or wireless
transmission system including signal
transmission and any other frequency based
transmission system.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Counter Terrorism
(3)  Any action taken by any person in good faith in the
lawful exercise of a fundamental right, or in pursuance of, or
to give effect to a lawful order given to him, or in accordance
with or to give effect to a judicial order, shall not amount to
an offence under this Act.
4. (1) Any person who-
(a) commits an offence under section 3 with the
intention to cause death, and causes the death
of any other person in the course of
committing such offence, shall, upon
conviction by the High Court be punished
with life imprisonment;
(b) commits an offence under section 3 and causes
the death of any other person in the course of
committing such offence, of which the
reasonable foreseeable consequence is the
death of any other person, shall, upon
conviction by the High Court be punished
with imprisonment for a period which may
extend to life imprisonment; or
(c) commits an offence  under section 3 other
than the offences referred to in paragraph (a)
and ( b), shall upon conviction by the High
Court be liable to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding twenty
years and to a fine not exceeding rupees one
million.
(2) In addition to any other penalty imposed on such
person under subsection (1) the court may order that all or
any property of such person, be forfeited to the Republic.
5. (1) Any person who attempts, abets or conspires to
commit, an offence under section 3, shall upon conviction
by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding fifteen years and to a
fine not exceeding rupees one million.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Penalty for
the offence
of terrorism.
Penalty for
attempt to
commit the
offence of
terrorism.
35

<!-- page 8 -->

7Counter Terrorism
(2) If the offence of terrorism is committed consequent to
the commission of an offence under subsection (1), the
offender shall be punished with the same penalty as if he has
committed the offence of terrorism.
6. Any person or a member of a group of persons acting
under a common purpose or a member of a proscribed terrorist
organization who commits jointly or severally -
(a) a specified terrorist act, referred to in section 7; or
(b) an aggravated criminal act associated with terrorism
referred to in section 8; or
(c) terrorism associated acts referred to in section 9; or
(d) the acts of abetting terrorism referred to in
section 10,
with the intention of, or having the knowledge of, or having
reasonable grounds to believe that such conduct has the
effect of, adversely affecting the  territorial integrity, national
security and defence of Sri Lanka or, intimidating or
terrorizing a civilian population, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.
7. Acts which constitute an offence under paragraph (a)
of section 6 shall be as follows:-
(a) committing and attempting to commit the death,
abduction, wrongful confinement, hostage taking,
extortion, or criminal intimidation of any person,
or any other offence under the Penal Code which
shall be punished with a term of imprisonment of
seven years or more;
(b) committing an offence under section 8 of the
Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Crime
and Witnesses Act, No. 4 of 2015, with regard to a
victim of an offence under this Act or a witness to
the commission of an offence under this Act;
10
15
20
25
30
Specified
Terrorist
acts.
Other
offences
associated
with
terrorism.
5

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Counter Terrorism
(c) committing robbery, extortion, theft or mischief or
other damage to property of the State including
intellectual property and State owned, controlled,
or regulated critical infrastructure, automated
system, digital data-base and logistical networks
associated with any essential service;
(d) without lawful authority, importing, exporting,
manufacturing, collecting, obtaining, supplying,
trafficking, possessing or using firearms, offensive
weapons, ammunition, explosives or combustible
or corrosive substances or any biological, chemical,
electric or electronic or nuclear weapon.
8. Acts which constitute an offence under paragraph (b)
of section 6 shall be as follows:–
(a) committing–
(i) an offence against the State,punishable under
sections 114 and 116 to 126;
(ii) an offence relating to Army, Navy and Air
Force, punishable under sections 128 to 137;
(iii) the offence of human trafficking under
section 360c,
of the Penal Code;
(b) committing an offence under the Prevention of
Hostage Taking Act, No. 41 of 2000;
(c) committing any offence under the Computer Crimes
Act, No. 24 of 2007;
(d) committing any offence under the Payment and
Settlement Systems Act, No. 28 of 2005;
(e) committing any offence under the Foreign
Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
5
10
15
20
25
Aggravated
criminal acts
associated
with
terrorism.
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Counter Terrorism
(f) committing any offence relating to the trading of
listed securities within the meaning of the Securities
and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No.
36 of 1987;
(g) committing any offence  under the Poisons, Opium
and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218);
(h) committing any offence under the Immigrants and
Emigrants Act (Chapter 351).
9. Acts which constitute an offence under paragraph (c)
of section 6 shall be as follows:-
(a) committing any act, for organizing, preparatory to,
or giving effect to any plan for the commission of
an offence under this Act, outside the territory of
the Republic of Sri Lanka;
(b) functioning or serving  as a leader, member or a
cadre of a proscribed terrorist organization or
recruiting  persons to be a member or cadre of a
proscribed terrorist organization which is proscribed
under the United Nations Act, No. 45 of 1968.
10. Acts which constitute an offence under paragraph
(d) of section 6 shall be as follows:-
(a) recruiting or enticing or encouraging persons to
join a proscribed terrorist organizations or
movements of which an objective is to commit an
offence under this Act;
(b) joining, becoming a member of, supporting or
representing a proscribed terrorist organization for
the purpose of aiding and abetting the commission
of an offence under this Act;
(c) harbouring, concealing, or in any other manner,
wrongfully or illegally preventing, hindering or
10
15
20
25
30
Terrorism
associated
acts.
Acts of
abetting
terrorism.
5

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Counter Terrorism
5
10
15
20
25
30
interfering with the identification, arrest, custody
or detention of a person knowing or having
reasonable grounds to believe that such person has
committed or has concerned in committing an
offence under this Act;
(d) committing robbery, extortion or theft of property,
or otherwise obtaining money or any property or
other material, for or on behalf of a proscribed
terrorist organization or any person who is
preparing to commit an offence under this Act, or
to aid such other person to commit an offence under
this Act;
(e) recruiting, selecting, inciting, inducing, forceing,
preaching or training, children to join a proscribed
terrorist organization, or to commit an act of
terrorism, or any other offence under this Act;
(f) voluntarily contributing money, property or
material to a proscribed terrorist organization or
any person, knowing or having reasonable grounds
to believe that such money, property or material or
the value thereof may be used to commit an offence
under this Act;
(g) intentionally and unlawfully distributing or
otherwise making available any information to the
public, having intent to incite the commission of
the offence of terrorism or other offence under this
Act, and to cause the fear of such offence being
committed, notwithstanding that such conduct does
not expressly advocate such offence;
(h) voluntarily and willfully providing services to a
proscribed terrorist organization for the purpose of
the commission of an offence under this Act;

<!-- page 12 -->

11Counter Terrorism
10
15
20
25
30
(i) voluntarily engaging in any illegal or unauthorized
act for the purpose of gathering any confidential
information, having the intention of supplying such
information to a person who commits an offence
under this Act;
(j) voluntarily and illegally or in an unauthorized
manner, gathering confidential information, for the
purpose of supplying such information to a person
who commits an offence under this Act;
(k) voluntarily and illegally or unlawfully or in an
unauthorized manner, gathering confidential
information, for the purpose of supplying such
information to a person who is conspiring,
preparing, abetting, or attempting to commit an
offence under this Act;
(l) providing to any other person any confidential
information, knowing or having reasonable grounds
to believe that such information will be used by
such other person to conspire, abet, attempt or
commit an offence under this Act:
Provided however, nothing published in good
faith with due diligence for the benefit of the public
or in national interest in registered print and
electronic media, or in any academic publication,
shall be deemed to be an offence under this section;
(m) providing any gratification, inducement, threat,
force or any other form of influence to any other
person for the purpose of encouraging, compelling
or inciting such other person to commit an offence
under paragraphs ( h), ( i) or ( j), or providing a
gratification in consideration of such other person
having committed an offence in terms of paragraphs
(h), (i) or (j).
5

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Counter Terrorism
11. Any person who-
(a) commits an offence under section 6 with the
intention to cause death, and causes the death
of any other person in the course of
committing such offence shall, upon
conviction by the High Court be punished
with life imprisonment; or
(b) commits an offence under section 6 and causes
the death of any other person in the course of
committing such offence of which the
reasonable foreseeable consequence is the
death of any other person shall, upon
conviction by the High Court be punished
with imprisonment for a period which may
extend to life imprisonment and be liable to
a fine not exceeding rupees one million; or
(c) commits an offence under section 6 other than
an offence referred to in paragraph ( a) or (b)
shall upon conviction by the High Court be
punished with imprisonment of either
description, for a term not exceeding fifteen
years and be liable to a fine not exceeding
rupees one million.
12. Any person who attempts, abets or conspires to
commit an offence under section 6, shall upon conviction
by the High Court be punished with relevant punishment
provided for in section 11.
13. Any person who-
(a) knowing or having reasons to believe that
any other person-
(i) has committed an offence under this
Act; or
Penalty for
attempting,
etc. for an
offence
under
section 6.
Failure to
provide
information
to be an
offence.
Penalty for
offence
under
section 6.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 14 -->

13Counter Terrorism
(ii) is making preparation, attempting,
abetting or conspiring to commit an
offence  under this Act,
fails to report to the officer in charge of the
nearest police station; or
(b) having in his possession any information
relating to the whereabouts of any person of
whom he knows that has committed an
offence of terrorism or an offence associated
with terrorism, fails to provide such
information or provides false or misleading
information, to a police officer who questions
him,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and upon
conviction by the High Court be liable to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding three years and
to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.
14. Any person who –
(a) violates or acts in contravention of a lawful
directive or order made in terms of this Act;
or
(b) willfully fails or neglects to comply with a
direction issued in terms of this Act; or
(c) fails to provide information or provides
false or misleading information in response
to a question put to him by a police officer
conducting an investigation under this Act;
or
(d) willfully prevents or hinders the
implementation of a lawful order or directive
issued  under this Act; or
Disobeying
lawful orders
to be an
offence.
10
15
20
25
30
5

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Counter Terrorism
      (e) prevents or obstructs enforcement of
provisions of this Act,
commits an offence, and shall be liable to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding two years and to a fine not
exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.
15. Any offence under this Act shall be deemed to be a
cognizable offence within the meaning of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act and shall be investigated, prosecuted
and punished in terms of the provisions of this Act and other
applicable laws.
PART  II
I
NVESTIAGATION OF OFFENCES
16. An officer in charge of a Police Station or any other
police officer authorized by an officer in charge of a police
station, shall be entitled to commence and conduct
investigation, of an offence under this Act or an act
preparatory to the commission of an offence under this Act:
Provided however, where any person commits an offence
under this Act in the presence of a police officer, or a person
suspected of having committed an offence is arrested in the
immediate aftermath of committing an offence, it shall be
lawful for any police officer to arrest such person to question
and commence the investigation:
Provided further, such police officer shall forthwith
inform the officer in charge of the relevant police station, of
the commencement of such investigation, and conduct the
investigation subject to his instructions.
17. Any police officer , an officer or member of the armed
forces or a coast guard officer, may arrest without a warrant,
any person-
(a) who commits in his presence, or whom he has
reasonable grounds to believe, has committed, an
offence under this Act; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Offences to
be
cognizable.
Who may
conduct
investigations.
Arrest by a
police officer
and other
officers.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Counter Terrorism
(b) who has been concerned in committing an offence
under this Act; or
(c) in respect of whom he receives information or a
complaint which he believes to be reliable that a
person has committed or concerned in committing
an offence under this Act; or
(d) who is fleeing from Sri Lanka with the intention of
evading arrest or is evading arrest after committing
an offence under this Act; or
(e) who is violating the conditions of bail, subject to
which such person has been released, being a suspect
for the commission of an offence under this Act.
18. (1) A person arrested by an officer other than a police
officer, shall be produced before the officer in charge of the
nearest police station or of a police officer designated from
time to time, in that behalf by the Inspector General of Police,
without unnecessary delay, and in any event within a period
not exceeding twenty four hours:
Provided however, where such person has been arrested
outside the territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka or on board
of any aircraft or vessel, the period of time necessary for the
journey from place of arrest to the relevant police station,
shall be excluded in calculating such twenty-four hours
period:
Provided further, if producing the person being arrested
in terms of the preceding provisions of this subsection to the
officer in charge of the nearest police station is not practicable
due to reasons beyond the control of the person who carried
out the arrest, the custody of such person shall be given to
the officer in charge of any police station.
(2) The officer who carried out the arrest shall as soon as
practicable, notify the arrest to a commissioned officer or
any other officer of a higher rank, who has been authorized
to receive such information.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Procedure
when arrest is
carried out
by an officer
other than a
police
officer.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Counter Terrorism
(3) Subject to the provisions of sections 22 and 23, a
person so arrested may be questioned and further searched
by the commissioned officer or the other officer referred to
in subsection (2) where it is necessary to protect the life of
any person, to prevent any act of terrorism or to preserve
evidence relating to an offence committed under this Act.
(4) Such Commissioned officer or other officer shall
forthwith inform of such arrest to the officer in charge of the
nearest police station or to a police officer designated by the
Inspector General of Police in that behalf.
(5) At the time of taking the person so arrested into the
custody of the officer in charge of the police station as provided
for in this section, the officer who carried out the arrest, shall
make a statement to such officer in charge, setting out the
circumstances relating to the arrest carried out by him.
(6) Such officer shall also handover to such officer in
charge, all items that may have been found in the possession
of the suspect, or found from the place of arrest.
19. (1) (a) Any person arrested by a police officer, shall
without unnecessary delay, be produced before the officer
in charge of the police station to which such police officer is
attached to.
(b) Where such production is not practicable, the person
arrested shall be produced before the officer in charge of the
nearest police station.
(2) It shall be lawful for a police officer to obtain the
assistance of a member of the armed forces or a coast guard
officer to carry out an arrest in terms of this Act, or to obtain
such assistance to take the arrested person to a police station.
(3)  Every practicable measure shall be taken to protect
an arrested person from any physical harm.
20. (1) Where there is reasonable grounds to arrest any
person under section 18 or section 19, a police officer, a
5
10
15
20
25
30
Procedure
when arrest is
carried out
by a police
officer.
Power to stop
and search.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Counter Terrorism
member of any armed force or a coast guard officer
(hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “arresting officer”)
may–
(a) stop and search any person, vehicle, vessel, train or
aircraft;
(b) question any person;
(c) enter and search any premises or land; and
(d) take into custody any document, thing or
article,used, derived out of, connected with or,
concerned in committing or, reasonably suspected
of being used, derived out of, connected with, or
concerned in committing an offence under this Act.
(2) The exercise of the powers under this section shall be
notified to relevant parties in terms of the provisions of
section 25.
(3) Any such document, thing or article so taken into
custody, shall as soon as practicable be produced before the
officer in charge of the police station to which the relevant
police officer is attached, or be produced before the officer
in charge of the nearest police station.
(4) The officer in charge of the police station referred to
in subsection (3) shall produce a report in that regard to the
Magistrate before whom the relevant suspect be produced
who shall make an appropriate order with regard to the
possession or release of the documents, things or articles so
taken into custody.
21. (1) The arresting officer shall inform the person
being arrested, (hereinafter in this part referred to as the
“suspect”) at the time of the arrest–
(a)   the identity of the arresting officer;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Information
to be
provided at
the time of
arrest.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Counter Terrorism
(b) the offence alleged to have been committed by the
suspect;
(c) the right of access of the person to an Attorney-at-
Law as provided for in written law.
(2) Every reasonable measure shall be taken to convey
such information in Sinhala, Tamil or English languages,
whichever language understood by the suspect.
(3) Where it is not practicable to convey the information
to the suspect as specified in subsection (1) at the time of
arrest, such information shall be conveyed in a language
understood by him, as soon as practicable.
22. Every arrest shall be carried out, with due regard to
the privacy of the person being arrested. Every possible
measure shall be taken to ensure that the arrest of a female
suspect is carried out by a female arresting officer, or in the
presence of a female officer.
23. (1) Every possible measure shall be taken to
ensurethat the questioning of any female is carried out by a
female arresting officer or in the presence of a female officer.
(2) The search of a female, shall necessarily be conducted
by a female officer.
24. (1) The officer in charge of the police station in
which the suspect is detained or a police officer authorized
by such officer in charge, shall examine such suspect, to see
whether he has any injury that may be visible.
(2)  If the suspect has any injury that may be visible, the
officer in charge of the police station shall cause such person,
to be examined by a judicial medical officer or by a
government forensic medical specialist and obtain a report.
(3) Unless there is reason for medical treatment, the
judicial medical officer or the government forensic medical
specialist shall return the suspect to police custody, without
any delay.
10
15
20
25
30
5
Arrest to be
carried out
with due
regard to
privacy.
Searching
and
questioning
of females.
Medical
examination
of the
suspect.

<!-- page 20 -->

19Counter Terrorism
25. (1) Any arresting officer who arrests a suspect in
terms of the provisions of this Act, shall, if the next of kin or
an adult member of the family of the suspect is present at the
time of arrest, issue to such person, as soon as practicable
and not later than twenty four hours from the arrest, an
acknowledgement of the arrest and custody pertaining to
such suspect, in the format set out in the First Schedule to
this Act.
(2) Such acknowledgement shall include–
(a) the date, time and place of arrest;
(b) reasons for the arrest;
(c) the location of custody or detention;
(d) the name, identification number and rank of
the arresting officer; and
(e) any other information as may be necessary
for the  next of kin  of the suspect, to have
reasonable access to him, without prejudice
to the conduct of investigations.
(3) If such a person is not present, the arresting officer
shall inquire from the suspect, the identity and whereabouts
of a person to whom the acknowledgement referred to in
subsection (1) shall be served, and if the suspect provides
such information, every possible step shall be taken to serve
the acknowledgement on such person. A copy of the said
acknowledgement shall be served on the suspect.
(4) The officer in charge of the police station wherein the
suspect is detained shall, as soon as practicable, and in any
event not later than twenty four hours of the arrest, notify
the Human Rights Commission of such arrest and detention,
substantially in the format set out in the Second schedule to
this Act, and notify the Inspector General of Police or his
authorized representative, substantially in the format set out
in the Third Schedule to this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
Notification
of the arrest.
30

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Counter Terrorism
(5) Such notification shall include–
(a) the date, time and place of arrest;
(b) reasons for the arrest;
(c) the location at which the suspect is being
held in detention;
(d) the name, identification number and rank of
the arresting officer;
(e) any other information that would enable the
Human Rights Commission to have prompt
access to the suspect; and
(f) any other information the Human Rights
Commission may call for, in order to
determine whether such arrest and detention
has infringed the fundamental rights of the
relevant person.
26. (1) The Inspector General of Police shall establish
and maintain a Central Data Base and Register, which
contains information with regard to each arrest, detention,
remanding, grant of bail, discharge, prosecution, conviction
or acquittal and punishment of persons arrested under this
Act.
(2) Such Data Base and Register shall also include such
other information required to determine the–
(a) lawfulness of the arrest, custody and detention;
(b) lawfulness of the deprivation of liberty of the
suspect; and
(c) the need for continued detention or remand.
10
15
20
25
5
Central
Data-Base
and Register.

<!-- page 22 -->

21Counter Terrorism
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) The Inspector General of Police shall provide
information included in such Data Base and Register, to the
Human Rights Commission, wherever the Human Rights
Commission so requests.
(4) The information received under subsection (3), shall
be used only for the purposes of giving effect to the
objectives of the Human Rights Commission.
(5) It shall be the duty of the Human Rights Commission
to ensure that no person shall use the information received
under subsection (3) in such manner that may be prejudicial
to the on-going investigations.
27. (1) A suspect who has been arrested and detained
by a police officer in terms of this Act, shall be produced
before any Magistrate not later than forty eight hours
following the arrest:
Provided however, where the arrest has been carried out,
outside the territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka or on board
any aircraft or vessel, the period of time necessary for the
journey from place of arrest to the relevant Magistrate shall
be excluded in calculating such forty eight hours.
(2) Where, by the time the suspect is produced before a
Magistrate–
(a) a valid Detention Order has been issued in terms of
section 31, and is placed before the Magistrate for
his inspection, the Magistrate shall make an order
to give effect to such Detention Order; or
(b) a Detention Order has not been issued or such a
Detention Order has not been placed before the
Magistrate, the Magistrate shall–
  (i) if the officer in charge of the relevant police
station makes an application seeking an order
Production
before a
Magistrate.

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Counter Terrorism
10
15
20
25
30
to remand the suspect, based on grounds that
the Magistrate deems reasonable in the
circumstances, order that the suspect be
placed in remand custody; or
 (ii) if the officer in charge of the relevant police
station requests or has no objection to bail
being granted, release the suspect on bail
under the provisions of Bail Act, No.30 of
1997, upon conditions to be stipulated by
such Magistrate, excluding personal bail; or
(iii) discharge the suspect, if the officer in charge
of the relevant police station so requests.
(3) The Magistrate before whom the suspect is produced,
shall–
(a) personally see the suspect, and look into his well-
being and welfare through a private interview; and
(b) record any comment the suspect may provide.
(4) For the purpose of this section “private interview”
means proceedings, either in open court or in Magistrate’s
chamber in the absence of any police officer who may have
participated in the arrest, or who has investigated into the
offence, alleged to have been committed by the suspect.
28. (1) Where the Magistrate is of the opinion, that the
suspect may have been subjected to torture, after taking into
account any complaint made by the suspect and any
representation made by the arresting officer or officer in
charge of the relevant police station, in defence thereto, the
Magistrate may direct that the suspect be produced before a
government forensic medical specialist, for medical
examination, and a report be submitted by such medical
specialist to the Magistrate.
5
Magistrate to
direct the
suspect to a
forensic
medical
examination.

<!-- page 24 -->

23Counter Terrorism
5
10
15
20
25
30
   (2) Where the report of the government forensic medical
specialist reveals that there is a probability of the suspect
have been subjected to torture, the Magistrate shall, after
giving an opportunity to the suspect and the arresting officer
or officer in charge of the police station to be heard,–
(a) direct the suspect for necessary treatment; and
(b) order that the suspect be placed in remand.
 (3) Where the Magistrate orders that the suspect be placed
in remand, police officers who previously had access to the
suspect shall not have access to the suspect.
(4) The investigation in respect of such suspect shall be
continued by such other police officers as directed by the
Inspector General of Police.
(5) The Magistrate shall also direct the Inspector General
of Police to commence an investigation into the alleged
torture to enable the Attorney General to institute criminal
proceedings against the person who committed the alleged
torture.
29. Subject to the provisions of section 30, no person
in remand shall be released by a Magistrate on bail, except
under the authority of an Order made by a Judge of the High
Court, on exceptional grounds.
30. (1) No person shall be held in remand for a period
exceeding six months from the date of his arrest without
instituting criminal proceedings:
Provided however, the period of remand may be extended
on an order of a Judge of the High Court, on an application
made by the Attorney General:
Provided further, the maximum cumulative period of
extension, shall not exceed six months.
Grant of bail
by the High
Court on
exceptional
grounds.
Maximum
period of
remand.

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Counter Terrorism
(2) If criminal proceedings are not instituted within the
period referred to in subsection (1), the Magistrate shall
release the suspect on bail, on conditions to be stipulated by
the Magistrate.
31. (1) (a) An officer in charge of a police station who
seeks a detention order to detain a suspect for any purpose
specified in subsection (2), may make an application to a
Deputy Inspector General of Police, with the recommendation
of the officer in charge of the relevant police division.
(b) If such Deputy Inspector General of Police is satisfied
of the existence of reasonable grounds to believe that the
suspect has committed or has concerned in committing an
offence under this Act, he may issue a Detention Order
substantially in the format specified in the Fourth Schedule
to this Act, authorizing the detention of the suspect in an
approved place of detention under approved conditions of
detention.
 ( c) No detention order shall be issued for a period
exceeding two weeks, at a time.
(2) A Detention Order under subsection (1), shall include
reasons for the issuance thereof, and shall be issued solely
for following purposes, where it is necessary:–
(a) facilitating the conduct of the investigations in
respect of the suspect;
(b) obtaining material for investigations and potential
evidence relating to the commission of an offence
under this Act;
(c) questioning the suspect in detention; and
(d) preserving evidence pertaining to the commission
of an offence under this Act, for such reasons to be
recorded in the Detention Order.
Detention
Orders.
10
15
20
25
30
5

<!-- page 26 -->

25Counter Terrorism
    (3) Where a Detention Order under this section has been
issued at the time when the relevant suspect is produced
before a Magistrate under section 27, a certified copy of
such Detention Order shall be placed before the Magistrate
for inspection.
    (4)  A copy of every Detention Order under this section
shall be served on the suspect being detained and the
acknowledgement by the suspect shall be obtained and filed
in the relevant Magistrate Court.
(5) A copy of the Detention Order shall be served on the
next of kin or an adult family member of the suspect and the
provisions of 
section 25, shall mutatis mutandis , apply to
the manner of serving such copy.
(6)The Minister shall, on the recommendation of the
Inspector General of Police, by Order published in the
Gazette, specify such number of places as “approved places
of detention” for the purpose of this section.
(7) The Minister shall, in consultation with the Inspector
General of Police and the Human rights Commission of Sri
Lanka, specify by Order published in the Gazette , such
conditions of detention as “approved conditions of
detention” for the purpose of this section.
32. (1) A Magistrate before whom a suspect has been
produced and detained under the authority of a Detention
Order shall, without giving any advance notice to the
authority in charge of such place of detention-
(a) visit the place of detention of such suspect; and
(b) interview the suspect and look into his well-being.
(2) It shall be the duty of the authority in charge of any
place of detention to provide prompt and unimpeded access
to the Magistrate.
Visit to place
of detention
by
Magistrate.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 27 -->

26 Counter Terrorism
(3) If the Magistrate observes that the suspect may have
been subjected to torture or the suspect alleges that he was
tortured, the Magistrate shall make order, for the suspect to
be produced for examination by a government forensic
medical specialist, and to submit the report to him.
(4) After giving the suspect and the relevant police
officer or officers an opportunity to be heard, if the Magistrate
is satisfied that there is reasonable grounds to believe that
the  suspect may have been tortured, he shall act in terms of
subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of section 28.
33. (1) The officer in charge of the police station
wherein a suspect is detained shall notify the Human Rights
Commission of Sri Lanka of such detention, as soon as
practicable but in any event not later than seventy two hours
from the commencement of detention.
(2) A copy of the Detention Order shall be served on the
Human Rights Commission, as soon as practicable.
34. An authorized officer of the Human Rights
Commission, shall be entitled, without giving any advance
notice to-
(a) enter and examine any approved place of detention;
(b)  call for and inspect detention registers, Detention
Orders and other books and documents required to
be maintained at such place; and
(c) interview persons being detained at such place:
Provided however, officer of the Human Rights
Commission shall not be entitled to examine notes of
investigations and recorded statements of witnesses or, of
other persons.
10
15
20
25
5
Notification
of detention
to the Human
Rights
Commission.
Human
Rights
Commission
to visit an
approved
place of
detention.

<!-- page 28 -->

27Counter Terrorism
35. Any Magistrate shall be entitled, without advance
notice, to enter an approved place of detention, inspect such
place of detention, registers, Detention Orders and other
books and documents required to be maintained at such
place, and interview persons being detained at such place.
36. (1) Where it is necessary to detain a suspect in terms
of a Detention Order made under section 31 beyond a period
of two weeks, the officer in charge of the relevant police
station shall file a confidential report in the Magistrate Court
citing-
(a) the allegation against the suspect;
(b) the findings of investigation; and
      (c) reasons which require further detention,
and obtain the approval of the Magistrate for such continued
detention.
(2) The Magistrate shall ensure the confidentiality of the
report so filed.
(3) The suspect or his Attorney-at-Law shall be entitled
to obtain such information that may be necessary to object
to the extension of the period of detention.
(4) The submissions of the police officer seeking
extension of the period of detention and the objections
raised by the suspect or his Attorney-at-Law for such
extension, shall be recorded by the Magistrate.
(5) The Magistrate may order the extension of the period
of detention or refuse such extension, giving reasons therefor.
(6) (a) Where the Magistrate refuses to grant the extension
of the Detention Order he shall inquire whether there exists
any justifiable reason to remand the suspect.
5
10
15
20
25
Magistrates
entitled to
visit any
place of
detention.
Detention
beyond two
weeks only
with
approval of a
Magistrate.

<!-- page 29 -->

28 Counter Terrorism
(b) After the inquiry, if the Magistrate is of the opinion
that there exists any reasonable ground to believe that the
suspect has committed an offence under this Act, the suspect
shall be placed in remand custody.
(c) Where there is no reasons to believe that the suspect
has committed an offence under this Act, he shall be released
from detention.
(7) The proceedings under this section shall be held in-
camera.
37. No suspect shall be detained for a period exceeding
eight weeks under Detention Orders made under section 31.
38. (1) The police officer or the suspect may make an
appeal against any grant or refusal of extension of a Detention
Order under section 36, to the relevant Magistrate Court.
(2) The Magistrate shall immediately refer such appeal to
the High Court having Jurisdiction over the area in which
the relevant Magistrate Court is situated, in a confidential
cover along with the confidential report filed by the police
officer and the record of the proceedings.
(3) It shall be the duty of such High Court to dispose of
any such appeal within three weeks from the date of filing
such appeal, giving opportunities to the police, the Attorney
General and the Attorney-at-Law representing the suspect,
of being heard.
(4) The High Court may -
(a) affirm the order made by the Magistrate; or
(b) revise the order of the Magistrate by-
(i) granting the extension of Detention Order;
or
10
15
20
25
5
Maximum
period of
detention
under
Detention
Orders.
Appeal
against the
extension or
refusal to
extend
detention.

<!-- page 30 -->

29Counter Terrorism
(ii) placing the suspect in remand.
39. (1) During the pendency of a Detention Order, the
suspect shall be produced before a Magistrate once in every
fourteen days.
(2) The Magistrate shall comply with the provisions of
section 27 upon the suspect being produced before the
Magistrate.
(3) Upon completion of the period of detention under a
Detention Order, the suspect shall be produced before a
Magistrate.
(4) Where upon such production the officer in charge of
the relevant police station or any other police officer
authorized by him informs the Magistrate that-
(a) there exists a well-founded grounds to believe that
the suspect has committed an offence under this
Act and that further investigations are being
conducted; or
(b) the investigations have been completed and that
the Attorney General has been, or is to be requested
to consider the institution of criminal proceedings
against the suspect,
the Magistrate shall direct that the suspect be detained in
remand custody.
40. A police officer conducting an investigation under
this Act, shall be entitled , unless the Magistrate otherwise
orders to-
(a) have access to a suspect placed in remand custody
in terms of this Act, and interview the suspect;
5
10
15
20
25
Suspect to be
produced
before a
Magistrate.
Police officer
to have
access to
suspect in
remand.

<!-- page 31 -->

30 Counter Terrorism
(b) record his statements,with the permission given by
the Magistrate on an application made to such
Magistrate in that behalf;
(c) take the suspect out of the remand for the purpose
of conducting further investigations under the
authority of an order made by a Magistrate:
Provided however, an officer of the Prisons
Department shall be present at every instance
referred to above.
41. (1) There shall be established a Board of Review for
granting administrative relief for appeals against Detention
Orders made under 
section 31.
(2) The Board of Review shall consist of-
(a) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
who shall be the Chairperson of the Board; and
(b)  two other persons appointed by the Minister,
of whom each person has gained professional
eminence and experience in the fields of-
(i) criminal investigation and criminal
justice; and
(ii) human rights.
(3) Any suspect or an Attorney-at-Law on his behalf,
who is aggrieved by the decision taken to arrest and detain
him under a Detention Order made under section 31, may
appeal to the Board of Review, to review such Order.
(4)The Board of Review shall, consider the appeal, taking
into account the grounds stated in the appeal and the reasons
for requesting such Order based on the submissions made by
the officer in charge of the relevant police station with the
Board of
Review for
Administrative
relief from
Detention
Orders.
10
15
20
25
5

<!-- page 32 -->

31Counter Terrorism
assistance of the officer who requested for the Detention
Order, and the Deputy Inspector General of Police who issued
the Detention Order and make a ruling on such Order.
(5) Such ruling may contain directions-
(a) to continuously detain the appellant suspect;
or
(b) to terminate the detention of the suspect and
to produce the suspect before a Magistrate
and to request that the suspect be placed in
remand; or
(c) to produce the suspect before a Magistrate,
so that bail be granted to the suspect.
(6) Such ruling shall be made within two weeks of the
appeal and shall contain reasons therefor, and be
communicated to the appellant and to the  Deputy Inspector
General of Police who had issued the Detention Order and to
the officer who had requested the  Detention Order.
42. (1) Where the officer in charge of a police station
receives information which he believes to be true, that a
person remanded under this Act-–
(a) is committing an offence under this Act;
(b) is making preparations or attempting to commit an
offence under this Act;
(c) is attempting to escape from remand custody; or
(d) had committed an offence under this Act prior to
being arrested and such officer in charge was
unaware of such fact,he shall report such
information to the relevant Magistrate.
Detention
during
remand.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 33 -->

32 Counter Terrorism
(2) The Magistrate shall immediately inquire into such
information and at the conclusion of the inquiry, if the
Magistrate is satisfied that, the officer in charge of the police
station had acted in good faith  and the allegation against
the suspect made by the police, appears to be well founded,
and where the Magistrate deems it expedient to keep the
suspect under detention, he may on the production of a
Detention Order issued under this Act, permit the officer in
charge of the police station to-
(a) take custody of the suspect;
(b) remove the suspect from remand; and
(c) have such suspect detained in terms of such
Detention Order.
(3) The detention of a suspect under this section shall–
(a) be for a period specified by the Magistrate;
(b) be subject to the provisions of this Act
applicable for a suspect detained under this
Act; and
(c) be reviewed by the Magistrate in every
fourteen days.
(4) The transfer of the suspect from remand custody to
detention, shall be notified to the Human Rights
Commission.
43. (1) A suspect arrested under this Act, shall only be
released from remand custody or detention, after production
before a Magistrate and subject to any condition that the
Magistrate may impose.
(2) The release of the suspect shall be notified to the
Human Rights Commission by the officer in charge of the
relevant police station, giving adequate time as may be
necessary for the Human Rights Commission to send an
officer authorized in writing, to be present when the release
takes place.
10
15
20
25
5
Release from
remand
custody and
detention.
30

<!-- page 34 -->

33Counter Terrorism
44. An Attorney-at-Law representing a suspect under
this Act, shall have the right to access to such person in
police custody, and to make representations, as provided for
in written law.
45. The provisions of section 115, 116 and 120 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act shall have no application
in relation to a suspect under this Act.
46. Subject to the Provisions of this Act and section 45,
the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to any legal proceeding under
this Act.
47. Notwithstanding the provisions of section 9 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the investigation and
proceedings in respect of a suspect under this Act who had
previously been produced before a Magistrate, shall be held
in the Magistrate Court in which such Magistrate was
presiding at the time the suspect was so produced before
such Magistrate.
48. (1) The place of detention or remand of the suspect,
detained or remanded under the provisions of this Act, shall
be provided with the requirements necessary for humane
treatment, and such place of detention shall be accessible to
the family members of the suspect, in detention or remand,
and to his Attorney-at-Law with the prior permission
obtained from the officer in charge of such place of detention
or prison.
       (2) Where it appears to the Human Rights Commission
or the Magistrate, at an inspection of the place of detention
or remand  under the provisions of this Act that the place of
detention or remand, does not confirm to the requirements
referred to in subsection (1), such fact shall be informed -
(a) to the Inspector General of Police in cases of
detention; or
5
10
15
20
25
Right of an
Attorney-at-
Law to
represent a
suspect.
Suspect to be
treated
humanely.
Proceedings
before
Magistrate
Court.
Application
of the Code
of Criminal
Procedure
Act.
Certain
sections of
the Code of
Criminal
Procedure
Act not to
apply.
30

<!-- page 35 -->

34 Counter Terrorism
(b) to the Superintendent of the Prisons in cases of
remand.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Inspector General of Police
or the Superintendent of the Prisons, to take steps to the
greatest extent possible, to provide whatever necessary for
humane treatment.
(4) The officer in charge of the police station or the place
of detention wherein a suspect is kept in custody shall,where
the suspect is –
(a) detained for a period exceeding one month; or
(b) placed in remand, pending commencement of the
trial; or
(c) placed in remand, pending conclusion of the trial,
issue a notification to the suspect and to the Human Rights
Commission, containing following information:–
(i) the grounds on which, the extension of the
period of detention or remand was ordered;
(ii) in situations where the suspect is being
detained, without prejudice to the on-going
investigations, information needed   for the
investigations to be conducted diligently and
expeditiously; and
(iii) in situations where the suspect is being held
in remand custody, reasons as to why
institution of criminal proceedings cannot
be taken place immediately, or the trial cannot
be commenced immediately or the trial cannot
be concluded expeditiously, as the case
may be.
10
15
20
25
5

<!-- page 36 -->

35Counter Terrorism
PART  III
POWERS AND DUTIES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS UNDER THIS ACT
CT
49. For  the purpose of conducting investigations into
offences under this Act and offences under any other written
law that may have been committed in the course of the same
transaction, or to prevent the commission of any such offence,
police officers shall be vested with the powers specified in
this Part in addition to any power conferred on them by the
Police Ordinance or Code of Criminal Procedure Act or any
other relevant written law, to the extent that may be necessary
for investigating and preventing offences under this Act.
50. (1) It shall be the duty of every police officer and
any member of an armed force and a coast guard officer to
take necessary measures subject to the provisions of this
Act, to prevent the commission of an offence under this Act.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), any such officer
may take such measures-
(a) in good-faith ;
(b) proportionate to the harm that may be inflicted by
the commission of the offence alleged to have been
committed;
(c) only where all other means of achieving the
objectives of this Act have proved ineffective; and
(d) only to the extent such measures may be necessary,
to prevent the commission of an offence under this
Act or for the purpose of apprehending persons who
have committed offences under this Act.
(3) Any such officer shall not use Lethal force except in
the exercise of private defence within the meaning of the
Penal Code.
5
10
15
20
25
Powers of
Police
officers
under this
Act.
Duty of
certain
officers to
prevent the
commission
of offences
under this
Act.
30

<!-- page 37 -->

36 Counter Terrorism
51. (1) The Inspector General of Police shall name and
establish a Specialized Counter Terrorism Agency of the
Sri Lanka Police, which shall be assigned with the
responsibility of preventing and countering terrorism, and
investigating the commission of any offence under this Act
(hereinafter referred to as the “Specialized Agency”).
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Inspector General of Police shall be entitled to assign any
investigation or any partly conducted investigation, into
the commission of an offence under this Act, to any other
division or unit or to any police station, of the Sri Lanka
Police.
(3)  It shall be the duty of the Specialized Agency,
inter-alia to–
(a) maintain the central database;
(b) maintain statistics relating to the commission of
offences under this Act;
(c) conduct investigations to arrest, prosecute,
discharge and punish persons who commit offences
under this Act;
(d) assess threat situations posed by terrorism, and issue
warnings to the general public; and
(e) conduct research into terrorism, develop
investigation techniques and strategies, best
practices and standards.
52. (1) Where any offence under this Act is committed
or upon receipt of an information of the commission of, or
preparation to commit an offence under this Act, the Inspector
General of Police may appoint a special team of investigators
Specialized
Counter
Terrorism
Agency of
the Sri Lanka
Police.
Appointment
of special
teams of
Investigators.
10
15
20
25
5

<!-- page 38 -->

37Counter Terrorism
(hereinafter referred to as the “Investigation Team”)
comprising of the following persons, to investigate into such
offence, or to take necessary measures to prevent the same:–
(a) a Police officer designated by name and rank who
shall be the Head of the  Investigation Team;
(b) such number of other police officers designated by
name and rank who shall be the criminal
investigators;
(c) such number of legal experts;
(d) such number of crime inspection officers;
(e) such number of forensic medical specialists;
(f) such number of forensic psychologists;
(g) such number of forensic scientists, including
scientists in serology, genetics, ballistics,
explosives and chemicals;
(h) such number of finger print experts;
(i) such number of experts in handwriting and
suspected documents;
(j) such number of computer and automated network
experts;
(k) such number of forensic auditors;
(l) such number of experts in analogy, digital
technology and mobile and satellite
communication technology;
(m) such number of photographers and videographers;
and
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 39 -->

38 Counter Terrorism
(n) such number of other experts, that the Inspector
General of Police may deem necessary.
(2) (a)The Inspector General of Police shall designate a
police station to the Investigation Team constituted under
subsection (1).
(b) The officer in charge of such police station shall, in
addition to performing the general duties and functions
assigned to such office runder this Act and other written law,
assist the Investigation Team.
(3) The members of the Investigation Team who are not
police officers shall be deemed to be Peace Officers for the
purpose of performing the functions assigned to such
Investigation Team.
53. (1) A police officer not below the rank of a Deputy
Inspector General of Police who is a member of an
Investigation Team may with the concurrence of relevant
authorities constitute support teams comprising of members
of any armed force, doctors and other health care workers,
emergency relief service providers, public servants and other
necessary persons, to attend the following duties at any scene
of  crime where an offence under this Act has been
committed–
(a) to rescue and evacuate victims of any offence and
other persons from the scene of crime;
(b) to provide emergency medical treatments;
(c) to recover dead bodies;
(d) to douse fires;
(e) to deactivate explosives and other lethal and
dangerous substances;
Constitution
of support
teams.
10
15
20
25
5

<!-- page 40 -->

39Counter Terrorism
(f) to carryout controlled explosions, in order to
deactivate lethal and dangerous substances;
(g) to remove debris;
(h) to create access routes; and
(i) to provide other emergency, humanitarian and
security requirements and services.
(2) It shall be the duty of every person whose assistance
has been sought under subsection (1), to provide such
assistance, as may be required.
(3) The Inspector General of Police shall take necessary
measures to make necessary payments to such persons for
the services provided.
54. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a police officer not
below the rank of a Sub-Inspector of police who has been
authorized by an officer in charge of a police station to
conduct an investigation in terms of this Act, shall be
empowered to require any person to–
(a) be present for an interview;
(b) answer questions put to him;
(c) provide information;
(d) give  statements;
(e) give statements on affidavit or oath:
Provided that, a statement on affidavit or oath
shall only be obtained on an Order of a Magistrate;
(f) tender any document or thing that may be in the
possession or control of such person;
Powers to
facilitate
investigations.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 41 -->

40 Counter Terrorism
(g) assist in conducting of an investigation;
(h) where the person is suspected for committing an
offence under this Act, make himself available for a
physical examination having due regard to gender
sensitivity and privacy of the person;
(i) make himself available for taking of photographs,
video recording and taking finger, palm or foot
prints where the person is suspected for committing
an offence under this Act.
(2) No person shall be bound to make a statement or
produce an affidavit implicating or incriminating himself in
the commission of an offence.
(3) Any person who is to be interviewed and whose
statement is to be recorded, shall–
(a) if he so wishes, be entitled to have access to, or
communicate with, an Attorney-at-Law of his
choice and obtain legal advice prior to such
interview; and
(b) be interviewed and the statement be recorded in a
language understood by such person, and the
services of an interpreter be obtained where
necessary:
Provided that, where the services of an
interpreter is obtained, the interview shall be
recorded with its translation, and be transcribed,
and preserved, for future verification.
(4)  A police officer acting under the provisions of this
section shall inform the person prior to being interviewed,
of his rights under this Act.
10
15
20
25
5

<!-- page 42 -->

41Counter Terrorism
(5)Wherever possible, the interview shall be audio-
visually recorded.
55. Where the person in charge of any vehicle, vessel,
train or aircraft disobeys any order given by a police officer
or any other person acting on his demand for halting any
such  vehicle, vessel, train or aircraft for the purposes of this
Act, such police officer or the person may use such force as
may be necessary to halt such vehicle:
Provided however, any such force may be used only where
all other means of halting the  vehicle, vessel, train or aircraft
have proved ineffective:
Provided further, any such officer shall not use lethal
force except in the exercise of private defence within the
meaning of the Penal Code.
56. (1) A police officer shall be entitled to take over the
control of any  vehicle, vessel, train, aircraft or unmanned
aerial vehicle, for the purpose of conducting an investigation
under this Act or for preventing the commission of an offence.
 (2) Such taking of control shall be promptly reported to
a Magistrate.
57. For the purposes of this Act, a police officer not
below the rank of a Senior Deputy Inspector General of Police
may issue directions to–
(a) suspend or delay, the taking off of any aircraft, or
the sailing of any vessel; or
(b) land any such aircraft at a designated airport or at
any other appropriate location; or
(c) bring any vessel to any port or harbour or any other
appropriate location:
 Provided however, the Director General of Civil
Aviation appointed under the Civil Aviation Authority Act,
Use of force
to stop a
vessel or
vehicle.
Taking over
the control of
any vehicle,
vessel, etc.
Suspension
or delaying
the taking off
or sailing of
vessel,
aircraft, etc.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 43 -->

42 Counter Terrorism
No. 34 of 2002, and the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air
Force shall be prior informed of any such direction issued in
respect of any aircraft for the purpose of obtaining air-defence
clearance:
Provided further, where the direction is issued in respect
of a vessel of the Sri Lanka Navy, the Commander of the Sri
Lanka Navy shall be given prior notice of such direction.
58. (1) An Officer in Charge of a Police Station shall be
entitled to directly submit a suspect in custody or a victim
of an offence to a government forensic medical specialist for
examination.
(2) The Report of the examination shall be directly
submitted by the medical officer, to the relevant officer in
charge of the police station, with a copy to the Magistrate
before whom the suspect has been, or is to be produced.
59. (1) An officer in charge of a Police Station shall be
entitled to directly, submit any document, thing or article,
which he reasonably believes to be connected with the
Commission of an offence under this Act, to the Government
Analyst or to any other local or foreign expert for
examination and analysis.
(2) The Report of the examination shall be directly
submitted by the Government Analyst or other expert, to the
officer in charge of the relevant police station.
60. (1) It shall be lawful for a police officer who
conducts an investigation on an offence under this Act to
submit material for investigation to any other law
enforcement agency, if he is of the view that, there exists
material, indicating that an offence falling under the purview
of the investigation competency of such other law
enforcement agency, have been committed.
(2) The law enforcement agency referred to in subsection
(1), may include an agency of any other sovereign country.
Causing
clinical
forensic
medical
examinations.
Directly
submitting
items to
Government
Analyst or
other expert.
Transfer of
Material for
Investigation.
30
10
15
20
25
5

<!-- page 44 -->

Counter Terrorism 43
61. (1) It shall be lawful for a police officer with the
approval of the Inspector General of police, and with the
prior approval obtained from the relevant foreign country to
conduct an investigation in terms of this Act outside Sri
Lanka.
(2) It shall be lawful for a police officer authorized by the
Inspector General of Police, with the prior approval obtained
from the relevant foreign country and the Government of Sri
Lanka, to undertake and carry out a joint investigation into
the commission of an offence under this Act, with a criminal
investigation agency of any other country.
62. (1) Where a police officer not below the rank of a
Senior Superintendent of Police receives information that
an offence under this Act is committed or likely to be
committed, he may issue any one or more of the following
directives to the public, for the purpose of protecting persons
from harm or further harm, associated with such offence: -
(a) not to enter any specified area or premises;
(b) to leave a specified area or premises;
(c) not to leave a specified area or premises and to
remain within such area or premises;
(d) not to travel on any road;
(e) not to transport anything or to provide transport to
anybody;
(f) to suspend the operation of a specified public
transport system;
(g) to remove a particular object, vehicle, vessel or
aircraft from any location;
(h) to require that a vehicle, vessel, ship or aircraft to
remain in its present position;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Investigations
outside Sri
Lanka.
Police may
issue
directives for
the
protection of
the public.

<!-- page 45 -->

44 Counter Terrorism
(i) not to sail a vessel or ship into a specified area until
further notice is issued;
(j) not to fly an aircraft out of, or into, a specified air
space;
(k) not to congregate at any particular location;
(l) not to hold a particular meeting, rally or procession;
and
(m) not to engage in any specified activity:
 Provided however, no directive under paragraphs (k), (l)
or (m), shall be issued, without the prior approval obtained
from a Magistrate, who shall prior to the issuance of such
directive satisfy himself of the necessity for issuing the same
and may make an order to issue such directive subject to
such conditions.
(2) The Human Rights Commission shall forthwith be
informed of any directive issued under this section by the
relevant officer who issued such directive or the Magistrate
who granted prior approval for any such directive under
paragraphs (k), (l) or (m).
(3) Any such directive, may include exceptions to such
directive, in order to meet with emergency situations and
humanitarian requirements of persons that may be affected
by any such directive.
(4) Any such directive, shall be published in the Gazette
and be given a wide publicity in the relevant area through
appropriate other means.
(5) The period of operation of any such directive shall
not exceed, continuously for more than twenty four hours at
a time, and for a total period of more than seventy two hours:
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 46 -->

Counter Terrorism 45
Provided however, where the period of operation of any
such directive is required to be extended for more than twenty
four hours, such extended period shall commence after an
interval of not less than twenty four hours, after the expiration
of the initial period of operation of the directive.
(6) The assistance of the members of any armed force
may be obtained by the Inspector General of Police, with the
prior approval obtained from the Commander of the relevant
armed force, to give effect to any directive under this section.
(7) For the purpose of giving effect to such directive, it
shall be lawful for police officers to cordon-off such area.
(8) During the period of operation of such directive and
during a twenty four hours interval between two periods of
operation, it shall be lawful for any police officer or a member
of any armed force authorized in that behalf -
(a) to stop, question and search any person found within
the effective area of such directive;
 (b) to enter and search any premises; or
 (c) to stop any person who may attempt to enter  into
or, remain in the effective area of such directive
and question and search such person or his
belongings and property that may be taken in, or
out of such area.
(9)Any search conducted in terms of this section shall be
carried out in a gender sensitive manner, with due respect to
the dignity and privacy of the person being searched, and
while ensuring that the search of a female shall only be
carried out by a female officer.
(10) It shall also be lawful for a police officer or a member
of the armed forces authorized in that behalf to restrain and
search any person who may act contrary to the directive.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 47 -->

46 Counter Terrorism
 (11) Any person, who willfully acts contrary to a directive
issued under this section, shall be guilty of an offence, and
shall upon conviction by a Magistrate be punished with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine
not exceeding five thousand rupees or to both such
imprisonment and fine.
(12) An offence under this section shall be deemed to be
a non-cognizable offence within the meaning of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, if the commission of such offence
does not endanger the life of any person other than the
offender.
PART IV
M
ATERIAL FOR INVESTIGATION
63. (1) A police officer not below the rank of a
Superintendent of Police shall be entitled to apply for an
order from a Magistrate to require any bank, non-banking
financial institution or designated non-finance business to
provide following information and material to such officer,
subject to the provisions of the Prevention of Money
Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006 and Financial Transactions
Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006: –
(a) information relating to any financial service
provided by such bank, institution or business, to
any person;
(b) details of any financial transaction carried out by
any person;
(c) details relating to bank accounts, deposits,
remittances, and withdrawals and financial services
provided by any such bank, institution or business;
(d) details relating to securing of financial services by
any person; and
5
10
15
20
25
30
Obtaining
information
from banks,
financial
institutions,etc.

<!-- page 48 -->

Counter Terrorism 47
(e) a certified statement of any account or other
information pertaining to any account or
transaction.
(2) Such Magistrate shall consider the application made
by such police officer, and make an order in terms of
subsection (1), where it appears reasonable and necessary
for conducting investigation.
(3) The Magistrate shall maintain confidentiality in
respect of the application and the proceedings pertaining to
the same shall be held in-camera, if requested by such police
officer.
64. (1) A police officer not below the rank of a
Superintendent of Police shall be entitled to apply for an
order from a Magistrate to require any telecommunication,
satellite or digital service or data service provider, to
provide –
(a) information pertaining to services provided or
being provided by such service provider to any
person;
(b) information pertaining to services enjoyed by any
person to whom such services have been made
available;
(c) any information, data or document or record that
may be stored, archived or otherwise kept, by such
service provider; and
(d) information pertaining to the uploading or
downloading of data or information, to or from any
instrument through the service provided by such
service provider.
(2) Such Magistrate shall consider the application made
by such police officer, and make an order in terms of
subsection (1), where it appears reasonable and necessary
for conducting investigation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Obtaining
information
from service
providers.

<!-- page 49 -->

48 Counter Terrorism
 (3) The Magistrate shall maintain confidentiality in
respect of the application and the proceedings pertaining to
the same shall be held in-camera if requested by such police
officer.
65. (1) A police officer not below the rank of
Superintendent of Police shall, be entitled to apply for an
order from a Magistrate to require from the following officers
any information or document for the purpose of conducting
an investigation on an offence under this Act :-
(a) the  Secretary to any Ministry;
(b) Secretary General of the Parliament of Sri Lanka;
(c) Commissioner General of Inland Revenue;
(d) Governor of the Central Bank;
(e) Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange;
(f) Director of the Financial Intelligence Unit;
(g) Director General of the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka;
(h) Director General of Customs;
(i) Controller of Immigration and Emigration;
(j) Commissioner General for the Registration of
Persons;
(k) Controller General of Imports and Exports;
(l) Registrar of Companies;
(m) Commissioner General of Land;
(n) Director General of Intellectual Property of Sri
Lanka;
5
10
15
20
25
Obtaining
information
from
government
or statutory
institutions.

<!-- page 50 -->

Counter Terrorism 49
(o) Commissioner General of Motor Traffic;
(p) Director General of Telecommunications;
(q) a Head of any Government department, statutory
body or other Government institution; or
(r) Chairman of a Provincial Council or a Chairman or
a Special Commissioner of a local authority.
(2) Such Magistrate shall consider the application made
by such police officer, and make an order in terms of
subsection (1), where it appears reasonable and necessary
for conducting investigation.
(3) The Magistrate shall maintain confidentiality in
respect of the application and the proceedings pertaining to
the same shall be held in-camera if requested by such police
officer.
PART V
MAGISTRATE TO MAKE ORDERS TO FACILITATE INVESTIGATIONS
66. (1) For the purpose of conducting an investigation
on an offence under this Act, an officer in charge of a police
station may make an application to a Magistrate for making
orders to facilitate such investigation-
(a) restraining a suspect from travelling outside
Sri Lanka:
Provided that, the officer in charge of the police
station shall forthwith take steps to serve such order
on the suspect;
(b) taking of blood and hair samples and swab;
(c) by  conducting of identification parades;
5
10
15
20
25
Magistrate to
make orders
on
application
of a police
officer in
charge.

<!-- page 51 -->

50 Counter Terrorism
(d) forwarding productions to the government analyst,
any other local or foreign expert or to a government
forensic medical specialist;
(e) conducting of examinations and tests by experts;
(f) freezing of bank accounts or freezing of other
financial deposits and accounts, subject to any
condition that may be imposed:
Provided that, the Magistrate may on his own
motion  or on an application made in that behalf,
vary such order, or permit the use in good  faith of
the funds in such accounts by the holder of any
such account, for any legitimate purpose;
(g) suspending or varying the provision of services
being provided by any service provider:
Provided that, the Magistrate may either on his
own motion or on an application made in that
behalf, vary such order, enabling the use  in good
faith of such services by the recipient of any such
service, for any legitimate purpose; and
(h) opening of safe boxes.
(2) The Magistrate shall, upon being satisfied that the
application is made in good faith and the assistance sought
is reasonably necessary for the purpose of facilitating the
conduct of investigations, make the order sought under
subsection (1).
67. (1) For the purposes referred to in subsection (2), a
police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of
Police may make an application to a Magistrate seeking for
an order authorizing such officer–
5
10
15
20
25
Magistrate to
authorize
unlocking
data and
information.

<!-- page 52 -->

Counter Terrorism 51
(a) to direct any person who provides locking or
encryption services pertaining to any
communication or storage services or equipment
of, any data or information or other thing, to unlock
or unencrypt the service or equipment and provide
information contained therein to such police officer;
(b) to intercept, read, listen or record any postal
message or electronic mail or any telephone, voice,
internet, or video conversation, or conference or
any communication through any other medium;
(c) to access any analogue or digital data or
information; exchange or transfer system.
(2) The purposes for which the Magistrate may make an
Order under subsection (1) shall be –
(a) to determine the identity of a person who has
committed;
(b) to determine the location of a person who has
committed;
(c) to facilitate the conduct of an investigation into;
(d) to gather evidence against a person who has
committed;
(e) to determine whether one or more persons are
conspiring, planning, preparing or attempting to
commit;
(f) to take measures to prevent the commission of,
an offence under this Act.
(3) Such Magistrate shall, if he is satisfied that the application
is made in good faith and making of such order is reasonably
necessary for conducting investigations, issue such order.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 53 -->

52 Counter Terrorism
68. (1) On an application made by an officer in charge of
a police station conducting an investigation into an offence
under this Act, the Magistrate to whom such application is
made, may question and record the statement of any suspect,
who is produced by such officer before the Magistrate.
(2) The recording of such statement, shall be in
compliance with the following conditions: -
(a) the person shall be informed of his rights under this
Act;
(b) the person shall have access to, or communicate
with, an Attorney-at-Law, if he so wishes;
(c) the person shall be inquired in order to ascertain
whether such person wishes to voluntarily answer
the questions put to him, and the Magistrate shall
proceed to record a statement, only if he is satisfied
that such person is voluntarily making such
statement, without any promise, inducement or
threat;
(d) a questionnaire shall be obtained from the officer
in charge of the police station for the purpose of
questioning such person;
(e) the person shall be informed that he has no
obligation to answer the questions being put to
him;
(f) the person shall be warned that in the event of
criminal proceedings being instituted against him,
the contents of the statement that he will make,
may be used as evidence against him;
(g) whatever statement such person wishes to give shall
be recorded, in addition to answers given to the
questions put to him;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Magistrate to
record
statements.

<!-- page 54 -->

Counter Terrorism 53
(h) in situations where the person being interviewed,
does not understand the language spoken by the
Magistrate, the services of an interpreter shall be
obtained, in order to translate the questions and the
answers into the languages understood by such
person and the Magistrate;
(i) a transcript of the interview shall be prepared and
retained for future verification.
(3) Where the person who makes such statement is
subsequently indicted for having committed an offence
under this Act, such statement shall be admissible in evidence
against such person at proceeding in respect of such offence.
(4) Where the person who makes such statement is
called by the Attorney General as a witness to testify against
a person who is indicted for having committed an offence
under this Act, either the entirety of the statement or a part
thereof, may be marked and produced in evidence, as part
and parcel of the examination-in-chief of such person.
(5) When the suspect declines to make a statement to
the Magistrate, such fact shall be communicated by the
Magistrate to the relevant police officer and the suspect
shall be kept in remand custody.
69. (1) When the investigation is completed, the officer
in charge of the relevant police station shall submit to the
Magistrate, a report notifying the completion of
investigations.
      (2) No Detention Order under this Act shall be issued
or extended in respect of a suspect in respect of whom the
investigation has been completed.
      (3)  If at any time, an investigation in respect of any
person arrested under this Act, is to resume, the Magistrate
and the Human Rights Commission shall be informed of
such resumption and the completion of further investigation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Completion
of
investigations.

<!-- page 55 -->

54 Counter Terrorism
70. Upon the completion of the investigation, the
officer in charge of the police station shall where he believes
that there remains adequate evidence to institute criminal
proceedings against the suspect-
(a) request the Attorney General to institute criminal
proceedings against the suspect; and
(b) submit the following through an officer
authorized in that behalf by the Inspector General
of Police to the Attorney General:-
(i) observations found from the place of
the commission of the offence and any
other place examined or searched;
(ii) all statements recorded during the
investigation including the statements
of the person alleged to have committed
the offence;
(iii) reports of experts, photographs,
sketches, plans, etc.;
(iv) any other material the Attorney General
may specify, from time to time; and
(v) a report relating to the investigation
conducted.
PART VI
I
NSTITUTION OF CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS
71. The Attorney General shall institute criminal
proceedings against any person who appears to have
committed an offence under this Act or an offence under any
other law which has been committed by such person in the
course of committing an offence under this Act.
5
10
15
20
25
Notes of
Investigations
to be
submitted to
the Attorney
General.
Attorney
General to
institute
proceedings.

<!-- page 56 -->

Counter Terrorism 55
72. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
any other written law,  where –
(a) death or grievous bodily injury has not been caused
to any person; or
(b) the security of the State and the people of Sri Lanka
have not been seriously compromised or affected,
the Attorney General may, having due regard to the facts
specified in subsection (2), and subject to one or more
conditions referred to in subsection (3), suspend and defer
the institution of criminal proceedings against such person
alleged to have committed an offence under this Act, for a
period not less than five years and not exceeding ten years.
(2) Where the Attorney General suspends or defers the
institution of criminal proceedings under subsection (1), he
shall pay due regard to-
(a) the State policy,
(b) the national interest and public interest ;
(c) views of the Inspector General of Police;
(d) views of the victims of the offence; and
(e) the representations that may be made by the accused
person or, on his behalf by his Attorney-at-Law.
 (3) Where the Attorney General decides in terms of
subsection (1) to suspend and defer the institution of criminal
proceedings against any person alleged to have committed
an offence under this Act, he shall prefer an application to
the High Court, to obtain the sanction of such Court to the
imposition of one or more of the following conditions on
such person as consideration for the suspension and
deferment of the institution of criminal proceedings against
such person -
5
10
15
20
25
30
Suspension
and
deferment of
indictment.

<!-- page 57 -->

56 Counter Terrorism
(a) to publicly express remorse and apology before the
High Court, using a text issued by the Attorney
General;
(b) to provide reparation to victims of the offence, as
specified by the Attorney General;
(c) to participate in a specified programme of
rehabilitation;
(d) to publicly undertake that such person refrains from
committing an offence under this Act;
(e) to engage in specified community or social service;
or
(f) to refrain from, committing any indictable offence
or, breach of peace.
(4) The High Court shall upon consideration of the
application made by the Attorney General under subsection
(3), order the person alleged to have committed the offence
to appear before the Court, and shall  notify such person of
the conditions imposed by the Court.
(5) If such person fulfils the conditions imposed under
subsection (3) during the period stipulated for fulfilling such
conditions, the Attorney General shall not institute criminal
proceedings against such person in respect of the offence
alleged to have been committed.
(6) If the person fails without valid excuse to comply
with such conditions, the Attorney General may institute
criminal proceedings against such person after the lapse of
the period given to the suspect to fulfil such conditions.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 58 -->

Counter Terrorism 57
PART VII
TRIAL
73. Every person who commits an offence under this
Act shall be triable without a preliminary inquiry, on
indictment by the Attorney General, before a Judge of the
High Court, sitting without a jury:
Provided however,  the Chief Justice may direct that the
trial shall be held before the High Court at Bar, in terms of
the provisions of section 450 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, where-
(a) the Attorney General so requests the Chief Justice;
or
(b) the Chief Justice is of the opinion that the interests
of Justice so demands ; or
(c) the accused or an Attorney-at-Law on his behalf so
applies.
74. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law, the High Court shall give priority to the trials
against any person indicted for, any offence under this Act.
75. Unless exceptional circumstances so warrant a trial
under this Act shall be held from day-to-day, other than
during weekends, public holidays and days fixed by the
Chief Justice to be days on which the court shall be on
vacation.
76. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply in respect of a trial under this Act.
77. (1) If at any time before the judgement is given by
the High Court against a person who has been indicted for
having committed one or more offences under this Act, where
any charge in the indictment does not relate to-
5
10
15
20
25
Priority for
trials under
this Act.
Conduct of
trials on
day-to-day
basis.
Trial
procedure.
Withdrawal
of
Indictment.
Trial in the
High Court.
30

<!-- page 59 -->

58 Counter Terrorism
(a) causing death or grievous bodily injury to any
person;
(b) endangering the security of the State and the people
of Sri Lanka; or
(c) causing serious harm to property,
the Attorney General may, having due regard to the facts
specified in subsection (2) and subject to one or more
conditions referred to in subsection (3), with the permission
of the High Court, withdraw the indictment against the
accused.
(2) When the Attorney General withdraws the indictment
under subsection (1), he shall pay due regard to –
(a) the  State policy;
(b) the national interest and public interest;
(c) the views of the Inspector General of Police;
(d) views of the victims of the offence; and
(e) representations that may be made by the accused
person or on his behalf by his Attorney-at-Law.
(3) The Attorney General may impose one or more of the
following conditions under subsection (1) :-
(a) to publicly express remorse and apology before the
High Court, using a text issued by the Attorney
General;
(b) to provide reparation to victims of the offence, as
specified by the Attorney General;
(c) to voluntarily participate in a specified programme
of rehabilitation;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 60 -->

Counter Terrorism 59
(d) to publicly undertake that he refrains from
committing an offence under this Act or under other
law;
(e) to engage in specified community or social service;
and
(f) to refrain from committing, any indictable offence,
or, breach of peace.
(4) If such person fulfils the conditions imposed under
subsection (3), during the period stipulated for fulfilling
such conditions, the Attorney General shall not present a
fresh indictment against the accused thereafter on the same
charges in the original indictment.
(5) If the accused fails without valid excuse to comply
with the said conditions, the Attorney General may file a
fresh indictment against the accused on the same charges in
the original indictment and proceed to prosecute the accused
after the lapse of the period given for the accused to fulfil
such conditions.
78. If the trial against a person remanded under this Act
has not been concluded after the expiration of one year,
from the date of filing the indictment, the Judge of the High
Court before whom the trial is pending, or is held shall release
such person on bail, unless the delay in the completion of
the trial can be attributed to the conduct of the accused or
his Attorney-at-Law.
PART VIII
ADMISSIBILITY OF STATEMENTS
79. (1) A statement made by any person to a Magistrate
under this Act, shall be admissible against such person,
subject to the provisions specified in subsection (2) and to
the provisions of section 24 of the Evidence Ordinance.
(2) ( a) No person shall be legally bound to make a
statement or produce an affidavit implicating or
incriminating himself in the commission of an offence.
5
10
15
20
25
Grant of bail
during High
Court trial.
Statements
made to a
Magistrate.
30

<!-- page 61 -->

60 Counter Terrorism
(b) Any person who is to be interviewed and his statement
is to be recorded, shall have the right, if he so wishes, to have
access to, or communicate with, an Attorney-at-Law and
obtain legal advice prior to such interview.
(c) A Magistrate seeking to record a statement, shall
inform the person being interviewed of his rights under this
Act prior to such interview.
(d) If the person whose statement being recorded at the
interview does not understand the language being spoken,
the services of an interpreter shall be obtained and the
interview shall be conducted in a language that could be
understood by such person.
(e) A translation of the statement shall be transcribed
together with the corresponding questions, and kept for future
verifications.
(f) The interview shall wherever possible be audio-
visually recorded.
80. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
any other written law a confession made to a Magistrate by
a person accused of having committed an offence under this
Act, shall not be admissible in evidence against such person,
unless-
(a) the Magistrate who recorded such confession had
immediately prior to and soon after recording the
statement, cause the person who made the statement
to be examined by a government forensic medical
specialist; and
(b) the report of the forensic medical specialist is
produced by the prosecuting authority, during the
viore-dire  inquiry, that may be conducted for
verifying the admissibility of the confessional
statement.
(2) The burden of proving the fact that any confession
was voluntarily made, shall lie with the prosecuting
authority.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Pre-condition
to be
satisfied for
admissibility
of a
Confession
made to a
Magistrate.
35

<!-- page 62 -->

Counter Terrorism 61
PART IX
MISCELLANEOUS ORDERS
81. (1) Notwithstanding anything in any other written
law where the Minister has reasonable grounds to believe
that any organization is engaged in any act amounting to an
offence under this Act, or is acting in a manner prejudicial to
the national security of Sri Lanka or any other country, he
may by order published in the Gazette, (hereinafter referred
to as “Proscription Order”) proscribe such organization in
terms of the provisions of this Act.
(2) A Proscription Order may be made by the Minister, for
giving effect to-
(a) a recommendation made by the Inspector General
of Police; or
(b) a request made by the Government of any foreign
country to the Government of Sri Lanka.
(3) A Proscription Order,may include one or more of the
following prohibitions:-
(a) prohibition on conducting meetings, activities and
programmes by such organization;
(b) prohibition on the use or mobilization of bank
accounts and other financial depositories of such
organization;
(c) prohibition to entering into contracts;
(d) prohibition on raising of funds and receiving grants
and bequests;
(e) prohibition to transferring funds and assets of the
organization; or
(f) prohibition for lobbying and canvassing on behalf
of such organization.
5
10
15
20
25
Minister to
make
Proscription
Orders.
30

<!-- page 63 -->

62 Counter Terrorism
(4) Any prohibition, restriction, suspension or sanction,
issued under any other written law in respect of an
organization in respect of which a Proscription Order has
been issued under subsection (1), shall continue to be in
operation, without prejudice to any such Proscription Order
issued under subsection (1).
(5) Immediately after publication of a Proscription Order
in the Gazette, it shall be communicated to the organization
in respect of which such Proscription Order has been issued,
and be immediately informed to the members and employees
of such organization together with reasons therefor, by way
of direct communication, whenever such communication is
possible. A public announcement of such Order shall also
be made.
(6) The Minister may, on an application made by a person
or an organization aggrieved by a Proscription Order issued
under subsection (1), review or cancel such Order after
considering the representations of such person or
organization.
 (7) ( a) A Proscription Order made under this section shall
be initially issued for a period of one year.
 (b) On the lapse of the period of one year, the Minister
may taking into account, the contemporary and reliable
information and security needs, extend any such Order for
further periods not exceeding one year at a time.
(8) Any person or organization aggrieved by a
Proscription Order or any extension thereof, shall be entitled
to appeal to the Court of Appeal seeking revision or
revocation of such Order.
82. (1) Where  on a recommendation made by the
Inspector General of Police, the Minister  has reasonable
grounds to believe,that any person  has committed, or is
making preparation, to commit an offence under this Act,
and the conduct of such person can be  investigated without
5
10
15
20
25
Minister to
make
Restriction
Orders.
30

<!-- page 64 -->

Counter Terrorism 63
him being arrested, and if the Minister is of the opinion that
it is necessary to do so, the Minister may, on application
made to the High Court and upon obtaining the sanction of
such Court, make an order in writing (hereinafter referred to
as “Restriction Order”) imposing  such restrictions, as shall
be specified in that order, for a period not exceeding one
month.
(2) A Restriction Order under subsection (1) may include
restrictions on -
(a) the movement outside the place of residence;
(b) travelling overseas;
(c) travelling within Sri Lanka;
(d) travelling outside the normal route between the
place of residence and place of employment;
(e) the communication or association, or both, with
particular persons as shall be specified in the order;
or
(f) engaging in certain specified activities that may
facilitate the commission of an offence under this
Act.
(3) Any such Restriction Order may require the suspect
to report to any police station on a specified date, or at
specified periodic intervals.
(4) No Restriction Order made under subsection (1) shall
be made, unless such Order-
(a) is necessary for the prevention of the commission
of an offence under this Act;
(b) is necessary to conduct investigations into the
commission of an offence under this Act;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 65 -->

64 Counter Terrorism
(c) is proportionate to the offence alleged to have
committed or likely to be committed under this
Act;
(d) does not amount to an arbitrary deprivation of
liberty or restriction on the exercise of Fundamental
Rights, in terms of the provisions of the
Constitution.
(5) The Minister shall cause any such Restriction Order
to be served on the person in respect of whom such order was
made, and require the Inspector General of police to take
necessary steps to enforce any such Order and ensure
compliance therewith.
(6) (a) The Inspector General of Police shall cause, the
statements of the person in respect of whom  the Restriction
Order was made, to be recorded, within one week of making
thereof and submit it to the Minister, enabling the Minister
to determine whether the said Order shall be revoked or
varied.
(b) Prior to recording the statement, the relevant person
shall be informed of his rights under this Act, and be informed
of the grounds for making the Restriction Order.
(c) Prior to recording the statement, the relevant person
shall be permitted if he so requests, to have access to, or
confidential communication with, an Attorney-at-Law.
(d) The interview shall be conducted and the statement
shall be recorded in a language understood by the person
being interviewed, with the services of an interpreter
obtained where necessary:
Provided that, where the services of an interpreter is
obtained, the interview shall be recorded with its translation,
and be transcribed, and preserved, for future verification.
(e) Wherever possible, the interview shall be audio-
visually recorded.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 66 -->

Counter Terrorism 65
(7) Any person who willfully acts in contravention of a
Restriction Order made under this Act, shall commit an
offence, and shall upon conviction by a Judge of the High
Court be liable to imprisonment which may extend to three
years and to a fine not exceeding rupees three hundred
thousand.
(8) The Minister shall review a Restriction Order made
under this section in every month and extend the period
thereof, if necessary.
 (9) The aggregate period of any Restriction Order, shall
not exceed six months.
(10) The person in respect of whom a Restriction Order or
an extension thereof has been made, or an Attorney-at-Law
on his behalf, may appeal against such Order to the Court of
Appeal, seeking revision or revocation of such Order.
(11) The Court of Appeal shall dispose of any such appeal
within one month of the date of preferring such appeal,
considering the grounds of appeal and the reasons assigned
by the Minister and the Inspector General of Police, for
making such Order.
83. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Public
Security Ordinance (Chapter 140) the President may on his
own motion or on the request of the Minister upon being
satisfied of the information provided by the Minister, by
Order published in the Gazette declare curfew for a period
specified in such Order (hereinafter referred to as the “Curfew
Order”) under this Act, either to the entirety or part of Sri
Lanka including its territorial waters and air space for the
purposes referred to in subsection (2), and subject to the
provisions of subsection (3).
(2) The President may make a Curfew Order, for the
purposes of -
(a) controlling, detecting or investigating the
occurrence of systematic and widespread
5
10
15
20
25
30
Curfew
Orders.

<!-- page 67 -->

66 Counter Terrorism
committing of terrorism and other offences under
this Act;
(b) for the protection of national or public security from
terrorism and other offences under this Act; or
(c) to prevent the systematic and widespread
committing of offences under this Act.
(3) (a) The maximum period of any Curfew Order shall
not exceed twenty four hours at a time.
 (b) There shall be an interval of a minimum period of
three hours between two periods of Curfew.
(4) A Curfew Order may be made subject to such
exemptions that may be imposed to provide for humanitarian
needs.
(5) Any such Curfew Order, shall-
(a)  specify categories of persons who are exempted
therefrom;
(b) specify any person who may be authorized to issue
permits-
(i) exempting any person or persons from
adhering to the Curfew Order; and
(ii) authorizing such person or persons to travel
from one place to another, due to the need to
maintain essential services and supplies,
emergency requirements and humanitarian
needs, as may be specified in such permit.
(6) Any person who needs to be fully or partly exempted
from a Curfew Order, shall be entitled to make an application
to the authority referred to in subsection (5) in the prescribed
form.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 68 -->

Counter Terrorism 67
(7) The Inspector General of Police shall immediately
notify the Human Rights Commission in respect of a Curfew
Order made under subsection (1).
(8) A person who willfully violates a Curfew Order, shall
commit an offence, and upon conviction by a Magistrates
Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees three hundred
thousand.
(9) It shall be lawful for any arresting officer to use
reasonable force, as may be necessary to ensure compliance
with a Curfew Order, where all other means of ensuring
compliance have proved ineffective:
 Provided however, any such officer shall not use lethal
force unless in the exercise of private defence within the
meaning of the Penal Code.
84. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may on
a recommendation made by the Inspector General of Police
or the Commander, respectively of, Army, Navy or Air Force
or the Director General of Coast Guard, from time to time, by
Order published in the Gazette, stipulate any public place or
any other location to be a prohibited place (hereinafter
referred to as the “Prohibited Place”).
(2) The Order under subsection (1) shall include
prohibitions on the entry, and where necessary, may include
prohibitions  on taking photographs, video recording and
making sketches of the Prohibited Place.
(3) In addition to the publication of the order in respect
of a Prohibited Place in the Gazette, sufficient publicity
through other means shall be given.
(4) The Inspector General of Police shall immediately
notify the Human Rights Commission in respect of an Order
made under subsection (1).
5
10
15
20
25
30
Prohibited
Places.

<!-- page 69 -->

68 Counter Terrorism
(5) Upon being declared a place as a Prohibited Place,
notices shall be placed at entry points to such place where
possible, indicating that such place has been declared as a
Prohibited Place.
(6) After making an order under subsection (1), the officer
in charge or any other person having lawful authority and
control over the Prohibited Place as authorized by the
Minister, shall specify the categories of persons who shall
be authorized to enter and remain in such place, and he is
also entitled to authorize any other person to enter such
place on conditions he may specify.
(7) Any person willfully contravenes an Order made under
subsection (1) by entering or remaining in a prohibited place
without lawful authority, shall commit an offence, and be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years
and to a fine not exceeding rupees three hundred thousand
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(8) Any person willfully contravenes an Order made under
subsection (2) by taking photographs, video recording and
making sketches of a prohibited place shall commit an
offence, and shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not
extending three years or to a fine not exceeding rupees three
hundred thousand.
85. (1) Where the President receives reliable information
of widespread attacks of terrorism and commission of
offences under this Act, and the President on advice of the
Inspector General of Police forms the opinion that the police
is inadequate to effectively deal with such situation and
maintain law and order, the President may, by Proclamation,
direct any Commander of any armed force or every
Commander of every armed force to assist in maintaining
public order and to perform specified functions assigned to
police officers under this Act.
(2) The President may, make a proclamation under
subsection (1), on his own motion or on a request made by
the Minister or the Inspector General of Police.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Calling out
armed forces
35

<!-- page 70 -->

Counter Terrorism 69
(3)  Such Proclamation shall –
(a) specify whether such Proclamation is operative for
the entirety of the territory of Sri Lanka or to certain
specified areas of Sri Lanka;
(b) specify the ranks of officers of the armed forces
who are empowered to exercise the powers on par
with the police officers of designated ranks.
(4) The members of any armed force who are called out
for the purpose of maintaining public order in any area shall
for such purpose have the powers, including the power of
search and arrest, conferred on police officers by any
provision of this Act or of any other written law, other than
the powers specified in Chapter XI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act:
Provided however, the power of seizure and removal of
offensive weapons and offensive substances from persons in
a public place conferred on police officers shall not be
exercised by any member of an armed force called out as
aforesaid who is of a rank below that of, a Sergeant of Sri
Lanka Army or Sri Lanka Air Force or of a Petty Officer of
the Sri Lanka Navy.
(5) In any area in respect of which a proclamation is
operative under subsection (1), section 95 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, shall have effect as if the expression
“police officer” occurring therein includes any member of
the armed forces who is called out by such proclamation and
who is of a rank not below that of Sergeant of Sri Lanka
Army or Sri Lanka Air Force or of Petty Officer of the Sri
Lanka Navy.
(6) Where any member of the Sri Lanka Army who is not
an officer or a solider of the Regular Force is called out by a
proclamation under subsection (1), he shall, within the
meaning and for the purposes of the Army Act, be deemed to
be on active service and to be a person subject to military
law.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 71 -->

70 Counter Terrorism
(7) Where any member of Sri Lanka Navy who is not an
officer or a seaman of the Regular Naval Force, is called out
by a proclamation under subsection (1), he shall, within the
meaning and for the purposes of the Navy Act, be deemed to
be on active service and to be a person subject to naval law.
(8)Where any member of the Sri Lanka Air Force who is
not an officer or airman of the Regular Air Force is called out
by a proclamation under subsection (1), he shall, within the
meaning and for the purposes of the Air Force Act, be deemed
to be on active service and to be a person subject to that Act.
(9)Any member of the armed forces who is called out by
a proclamation under subsection (1) shall remain so called
out until the expiry or rescission of that  proclamation.
86. (1) Any police officer may seize any movable or
immovable property used for committing or concerned in
committing an offence, or derived out of committing an
offence under this Act.
(2) Any such seizure shall be valid for a period not
exceeding three days of such seizure unless such seizure is
affirmed and extended by a Magistrate on a request made by
an officer in charge of a police station.
(3) Any seizure of property not so affirmed and extended
as aforesaid shall cease to have effect after the expiry of the
said period of three days.
(4) Any seizure of property  affirmed and extended under
subsection (2) shall cease to be in force upon the expiry of
ninety days of such affirmation unless authorized by a
Magistrate, who may authorize the extension of the seizure
till the conclusion of the trial, relating to the relevant offence,
upon a request made by the officer in charge of the police
station.
(5) Where any person establishes his claim in respect of
the property so seized, the Magistrate may release such
5
10
15
20
25
30
Seizure,
Confiscation
and
Forfeiture of
Property.

<!-- page 72 -->

Counter Terrorism 71
property to the person who establishes the claim, on
conditions that may be imposed, if he is satisfied that-
(a) such person is the bona-fide owner, who has no
knowledge of the commission of the offence; or
(b) such person had exercised due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.
  (6) Where any person is convicted for an offence under
this Act, the court may make order subject to the
determination of an appeal against such conviction that any
property movable or immovable used in the commission of
such offence or derived out of such offence, be forfeited and
confiscated to the State.
(7) Where any person has been acquitted of having
committed an offence under this Act, the Court may make
order that any property used for or derived out of the
commission of such offence be forfeited and confiscated to
the State.
(8)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (6) and
(7), any property so forfeited and confiscated to the State
which may have been used by any person to commit an
offence under this Act without the knowledge or consent of
the owner of such property, shall be discharged from such
forfeiture and confiscation.
(9) Any person aggrieved by an order made under this
section, may appeal to the Court of Appeal.
(10) The provisions of subsections (5), (6), (7) and (8)
shall not apply to any instrument, weapon, ammunition or
utensil used to commit an offence under this Act.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 73 -->

72 Counter Terrorism
PART  X
SENTENCING  GUIDELINES
87. When determining the term of imprisonment to be
imposed on a person convicted of having committed an
offence under this Act the following factors shall be taken
into account as aggravating factors which warrant the
imposing of an enhanced term of imprisonment, subject to
the provisions of this Act: -
(a) the effect of the commission of the relevant offence
on the territorial integrity or sovereignty of Sri
Lanka, or of any other sovereign country;
(b) the effect of the commission of the relevant offence
on the security or defence of Sri Lanka;
(c) the number of lives lost due to the Commission of
the offence;
(d) whether the Commission of the offence has given
rise to public disquiet;
(e) injuries or harms inflicted on the people of Sri Lanka
or of any other sovereign country;
(f) the impact on the victims of the offence and
aggravated nature of the consequences undergone
by them;
(g) the effect on the security of the general public;
(h) the impact on the peaceful co-existence of the
people of Sri Lanka;
(i) financial and material loss caused to the government
of Sri Lanka and to the general public; and
(j) financial and other resources required for the
reparation and restoration of the damages caused.
5
10
15
20
25
Aggravating
factors.

<!-- page 74 -->

Counter Terrorism 73
88. When determining the term of imprisonment to be
imposed on a person convicted of having committed an
offence under this Act, the following factors shall be taken
into account as mitigating factors which warrant reduced
term of imprisonment subject to the provisions of this Act:-
(a) publicly denouncing terrorism;
(b) expression of remorse;
(c) young age at the time of committing the offence;
(d) old age at the time of sentencing;
(e) time period spent in detention or remand;
(f) coercion or duress under which the offence had been
committed;
(g) consent on the part of the victims of the offence to
grant pardon to the accused;
(h) voluntarily providing of reparation by the accused
to the victims of the offence;
(i) public denouncement of violence, and other
offences in respect of which the accused was
convicted of guilty;
(j) genuine commitment towards the preservation and
protection of the territorial integrity and
sovereignty of Sri Lanka; and
(k) voluntarily participating in and completing a
rehabilitation programme, stipulated by the Court.
5
10
15
20
Mitigating
factors.

<!-- page 75 -->

74 Counter Terrorism
PART XI
GENERAL
89.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act-
(a) the provisions of section 303 of that Act shall not
apply in the case of any person who is convicted
by or before any court for any offence under this
Act  unless the accused at the time of conviction, is
less than eighteen years of age, or has reached the
age of seventy years or more; or
(b) the provisions of section 306 of that Act shall not
apply in the case of any person who pleads or
is found guilty, by or before any court for any
offence under this Act.
90. The provisions of Children and Young Persons
Ordinance (Chapter 23) shall apply to any child who is found
guilty and convicted for having committed an offence under
this Act.
91. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, if that body of persons is-
(a) a body corporate, every director and principal
executive officer of that body corporate; or
(b) a firm, every partner of that firm; or
(c) a body unincorporated other than a firm, every
officer of that body responsible for its management
and control, shall be deemed to be guilty of such
offence:
Provided that, no such person shall be deemed to be guilty
of such offence, if he proves that such offence has committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence
to prevent the commission of such offence.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Certain
provisions of
the Code of
Criminal
Procedure
Act not to
apply.
Children And
Young
Persons
Ordinance to
apply.
Offences by
bodies of
persons.

<!-- page 76 -->

Counter Terrorism 75
92. (1) The President may make regulations either on
his own motion or on the recommendation of the Minister
under this Act, for the purpose of carrying out or giving
effect to the purposes, principles and provisions of this Act.
(2) Every regulation made by the President shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the president shall within
thirty days of its publication in the Gazette be brought before
Parliament for its approval.
(4) Any regulation not so approved shall be deemed to
be rescinded from the date of such disapproval but without
prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which a regulation is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
93. (1) The President may from time to time on the
recommendation of the Minister, issue directions subject to
the provisions of this Act, which shall apply to police officers
and the officers of Armed Forces pertaining to the manner in
which the provisions of this Act shall be enforced.
(2) The directions issued under subsection (1), shall be
solely for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of
this Act, in an efficacious manner and, be in compliance
with the Human Rights norms and standards recognized by
law.
(3) For the purposes of this section the expression “law”
includes international instruments which recognize human
rights and to which Sri Lanka is a signatory.
 (4) Every such direction shall be published in the Gazette.
5
10
15
20
25
Regulations.
Directions.
30

<!-- page 77 -->

76 Counter Terrorism
94. (1) The President on the recommendation of the
Minister may make Regulations to implement  rehabilitation
programmes for the persons in respect of whom the Attorney
General has recommended suspension and deferment of
criminal proceedings under section 72, or the Attorney
General has withdrawn indictments under section 77.
(2) Regulations under subsection (1) shall include-
(a) objectives to be achieved by the conduct of
the programme;
(b) nature of rehabilitation activities;
(c) nature of the training to be provided;
(d) the authority or authorities who conduct the
rehabilitation or training;
(e) the location of the programme; and
(f) the duration of the programme.
95. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything contained in any other written
law and in the event of any conflict or inconsistency between
the provisions of this Act and such other written law, the
provisions of this Act shall prevail.
96. Nothing contained in this Act, shall be read and
construed as preventing any person aggrieved by any
decision, determination, order or direction, made by any
relevant authority under this Act, seeking relief through
judicial review, in terms of the provisions of the Constitution.
Rehabilitation
programmes.
This Act to
prevail over
other written
law.
Judicial
Review.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 78 -->

Counter Terrorism 77
PART XII
REPEAL AND TRANSITIONAL
97. The Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 48 of 1979, is hereby repealed.
98. Notwithstanding the repeal of the Prevention of
Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979
(hereinafter referred to as the “repealed Act”) -
(a) any trial, appeal or application held, preferred or
made under the repealed Act and pending decision,
in any court or with other authority, on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be disposed of, continued, held or
entertained, as nearly as may be practicable, under
the provisions of the repealed Act including
provisions pertaining to procedure and evidence;
(b) any person suspected of having committed or
concerned in committing an offence under the
repealed Act prior to  the day immediately preceding
the date of  commencementof this Act, in respect of
whom the proceedings have not been instituted as
at the date of  commencement of this Act, shall be
prosecuted against, under the provisions of the
repealed Act and the legal proceedings into any
such offence shall be held by the relevant authority,
as nearly as may be practicable, under the
provisions of this Act:
              Provided however, prior to filing the indictment
for any such offence the Attorney General shall
consider the possibility to suspend or defer criminal
proceedings  under section  72 of this Act;
(c) all sentences passed and any decree or order entered
or made in any criminal proceeding under the
repealed Act, immediately prior to the date of
Repeal of
Act, No.48
of 1979.
Transitional
provisions.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 79 -->

78 Counter Terrorism
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed,
respectively to have been passed or made under the
corresponding provisions of this Act and be
enforced and given effect accordingly;
(d) all regulations and orders made under the provisions
of the repealed Act, prior to the date of
commencement of this Act, including but not
limited to regulations proscribing any organization
and including the Regulations published in Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1721/2 of August 29, 2011, shall
be deemed, to have been made under the
corresponding provisions of this Act and be
enforced and given effect accordingly.
99. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
“an aircraft” includes a helicopter;
“armed forces” means Sri Lanka Army established
under the Army Act, No. 17 of 1949, Sri Lanka
Navy established under the Navy Act (Chapter
358) and Sri Lanka Air Force established under
the Air Force Act, No. 41 of 1949;
“coast guard” means the Department of Coast Guard
established under the Department of Coast
Guard Act, No. 41 of 2009;
“Code of Criminal Procedure Act” means the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979;
“Commissioner General of Land” means the
Commissioner General appointed under
section 3 of the Land Development Ordinance
(Chapter 464));
“Commissioner General of Motor Traffic” means
the Commissioner General appointed under
section 204 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter
203);
Interpretation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 80 -->

Counter Terrorism 79
“Commissioner General for the Registration of
Persons” means the Commissioner General
appointed under section 3 of the Registration
of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968;
“confidential information” means-
(a) any information, the dissemination of
which is likely to have an adverse impact
on the security and the defence of Sri
Lanka;
(b) any information not in the public
domain, the dissemination of which is
likely to have an adverse effect on
national security or public security,
relating to-
(i) the persons of the police, armed
forces or Department of Coast
Guard;
(ii) the functions, movements or
whereabouts of a specified person;
(iii) a prohibited place or an approved
place of detention;
(iv) the conduct of investigations into
offences under this Act, findings of
such investigations, persons
arrested and detained and identity
of officers conducting
investigations;
(c) any information relating to the police or
the armed forces, on the conduct of any
official activity, including any law
enforcement or military measure which
is intended to be carried out or is being
carried out, or has been carried out;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 81 -->

80 Counter Terrorism
(d) any secret code, word, password or
encryption detail relating to national
security and defence;
“Controller of Immigration and Emigration” means
the Controller appointed under section 4 of
the Immigrants and Emigrants Act (Chapter
351);
“Controller of Imports and Exports” means the
Controller appointed under section 2 of the
Imports and Exports (Control) Act, No. 1 of
1969;
“curfew” means the   prohibition of the presence,
movement in or through a public place
including any road, railway, tunnel, territorial
sea, stream, park, market, seashore, and
recreation area;
 “designated non-finance business” has the same
meaning assigned to that expression in the
Financial Transaction Reporting Act, No. 6 of
2006;
“Director General of Customs” means the Director
General appointed under section 2 of the
Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235);
“Director of the Financial Intelligence Unit” means
the Head of the Financial Intelligence Unit
designated under the Financial Transaction
Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006;
“Director General of Intellectual Property of Sri
Lanka” means the Director General appointed
under section 2 of the Intellectual Property Act,
No. 36 of 2003;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 82 -->

Counter Terrorism 81
“Director General of the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka” means the Director
General appointed under section 42 of the
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri
Lanka Act, No. 36 of 1987;
“Director General of  Telecommunications” means
the Director General appointed under section
22B of the Sri Lanka Telecommunication Act,
No. 25 of 1991;
“Evidence Ordinance” means the Evidence
Ordinance  (Chapter 14);
“gratification” has the same meaning assigned to
such term in the Bribery Act (Chapter 26);
“Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange”
means the Head of the Department of Foreign
Exchange within the meaning of Foreign
Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;
“Human Rights Commission” means the Human
Rights Commission of Sri Lanka established
under the Human Rights Commission of Sri
Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996;
“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject
of Law and Order;
“non-banking financial institution” has the same
meaning assigned to such expression under the
Financial Transaction Reporting Act, No. 6 of
2006;
“Penal Code” means the Penal Code (Chapter 19);
“Person”means an individual, group of individuals,
an association, organization or body of
persons;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 83 -->

82 Counter Terrorism
“Police Ordinance” means the Police Ordinance
(Chapter 53);
“proscribed terrorist organization” includes any
organization proscribed under a regulation
made in terms of the United Nations Act, No.
45 of 1968;
“Registrar of Companies” means the Registrar of
Companies  appointed under section 471 of
the Companies  Act, No. 7 of 2007;
“territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka” has the
same meaning assigned to that expression
under the Constitution;
“unmanned aerial vehicle” means a mechanized
and / or automated flying object, which does
not contain an ability to navigate such object
by a human being from within the object, and
which may or may not be navigated or
controlled remotely;
“victim of an offence” means a person including a
child victim who has suffered any injury, harm,
impairment or disability whether physical or
mental, emotional, economic or other loss, as a
result of an act or omission which constitutes
an alleged –
(a) offence under this Act; or
(b) offence under any other written law
which has been committed in the course
of committing an offence under this Act,
 and includes a person who suffers harm as a result
of intervening to assist such a person or to prevent
the commission of an offence, and the parent or
guardian of a child victim of an offence and any
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 84 -->

Counter Terrorism 83
member of the family and next of kin of such person,
dependents and any other person of significant
importance to that person;
“witness” means any person who-
(a) has provided information or lodged a
complaint with any law enforcement
officer and based upon such information
or complaint, an investigation or
inquiry could be commenced or has
commenced or is likely to commence,
in connection with the alleged
commission of an offence under this
Act;
(b) in the course of an investigation or
inquiry conducted by a law enforcement
officer, into the alleged commission of
an offence under this Act has provided
information or made a statement
containing an account of matters in
respect to which such person had been
questioned;
(c) has provided an affidavit or submitted
a statement in support of a complaint
made or any legal action instituted by
a victim of an offence under this Act;
(d) has provided information or any
communication to a Commission;
(e) has reasonable grounds to believe that
he shall be summoned by a Court or a
Commission to make a statement or
testify in any judicial or quasi-judicial
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 85 -->

84 Counter Terrorism
proceedings against a person, based on
information provided or a statement
made to a law enforcement officer or a
Commission by such person;
(f) has received summons from a court or a
Commission to make a statement, testify
or produce any document, report or
object in any judicial or quasi-judicial
proceeding before such Court or
Commission; or
(g) being a public officer, has investigated
into the alleged commission of an
offence under this Act,
and includes a victim of an offence, a child witness,
the parent or guardian of a child witness, a family
member or dependent of such witness or any other
person of significant importance to such person, an
expert witness and a person who has been
summoned to testify before a Court or a Commission
on behalf of a person suspected or accused of the
alleged commission of an offence under this Act.
100. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20

<!-- page 86 -->

Counter Terrorism 85
FIRST SCHEDULE [ section 25(1)]
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF THE ARREST AND CUSTODY
1. Name of the person arrested:–
2. Date, Time and Place of arrest:–
3. Reasons for the arrest:–
4. Location of the proposed custody or detention of the person
arrested:–
5. Name, identification number and rank of the arresting
officer:–
6. Any other information as may be necessary for the next of
kin of person arrested, to have reasonable access to him:–
7. Identity of the person to whom the acknowledgement is
being issued:–
8. Date and place of issue of the acknowledgement:–
9. Name, designation and signature of the officer issuing the
acknowledgement:–
SECOND SCHEDULE [ section 25(4)]
N
OTIFICATION OF THE ARREST TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
1. Name of the person arrested:–
2. Date, Time and Place of arrest:–
3. Reasons for the arrest:–
4. Location of the place at which the suspect is being held in
detention:–
5. Name, identification number and rank of the arresting
officer:–
6. Name and designation of the officer in charge of the place
of detention and his contact details:–
7. Any other information as may be necessary to enable the
Human Rights Commission to have prompt access to the
detainee:–

<!-- page 87 -->

86 Counter Terrorism
THIRD  SCHEDULE [section 25(4)]
NOTIFICATION OF THE ARREST TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL OF POLICE
1. Name of the person arrested:–
2. Date, Time and Place of arrest:–
3. Reasons for the arrest:–
4. Location of the place at which the suspect is being held in
detention:–
5. Name, identification number and rank of the arresting
officer:–
6. Name and designation of the officer in charge of the place
of detention and his contact details:–
FOURTH  SCHEDULE [section 31(1)( b)]
DETENTION ORDER
1. Number of the Detention Order:–
2. Name and designation of the officer issuing the Detention
Order:–
3. Date and Place of issuing the Detention Order:–
4. Identity of the officer who requested the issue of the
Detention Order and the date of the request and where
applicable the reference number:–
5. Name of the person (suspect) in respect of whom the
detention is being authorized:–
6. The place of authorized detention:–
7. The period of detention:–
8. The purpose for which detention of the suspect has been
authorized:–
9. Conditions of detention:–

<!-- page 88 -->

Counter Terrorism 87
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING