

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.06.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1709$50 - 2011 cqks 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'06'10
No. 1709/50  -  FRIDAY,  JUNE 10,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A - G 14651— 342 (2011/06)
My No.  : CI/1711/2003.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom
the Industrial Dispute which has arisen between
Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya, No. 301, 1st floor, T. B.
Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10  of  the  one part and
Ran Malu Fashions (Pvt) Ltd (Formerly Nelum Fashions (Pvt)
Ltd.), Export Promotion Zone, Biyagama, Malwana of the other
part was referred by order dated 24.08.2004 made under Section
4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act Chapter 131  (as amended)
and published in the Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka Extraordinary,  No. 1,356/17 dated 02.09.2004 for
settlement by Arbitration  is hereby published in terms of
Section 18(1) of the said   Act.
V . B. P . K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner General
 of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05.
27th  May, 2011.
In the Matter of the Industrial Dispute Between :
Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya
of  No. 301, First Floor,
T. B. Jaya Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
Applicant
and
Ran Malu Fashions (Pvt) Ltd.
(Formerly Nelum Fashions (Pvt) Ltd.,)
Export Promotion Zone,
Biyagama,
Malwana.
Respondent
THE  AWARD
Hon.  Athauda Senevirathne, the Minister of Labour
Relations and Foreign Employment  by  virtue of the powers
vested in him by Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes  Act,
Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (1956
Revised Edition) as amended  by Acts, Nos. 14 of 1957,  4 of
Case No:
    A  3062

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.06.2011
2A
1962 and  39 of 1968, (read with Industrial disputes (Special
Provision) Act, No. 37 of 1968) has appointed me to be the
Arbitrator by his order dated 24th August, 2004 and referred
the aforesaid dispute to me for  settlement  by Arbitration.
The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties is:-
"Whether the dismissal of the following eight (8)
employees of the factory situated at  No. 81/41, Negombo
Road, Peliyagoda by the then Nelum Fashions (Pvt) Limited
which is presently known as Ran Malu Fashions (Pvt) Limited
is justified, and if not, to what relief each of them is entitled".
1. Miss. Rani Subasinghe
2. Miss. S. A. Priyanthi
3. Miss. L. G . Kumuduni
4. Miss. M. Inoka Peiris
5. Miss. Nirosha Rajapaksha
6. Miss. Balika Damayanthi
7. Miss. Chandani Dissanayake and
8. Miss. M. A. Madushani Jayawardene
02. After the parties filed their statements under the
regulations, it was agreed between them to file affidavits along
with the relevant documents instead of leading oral evidence
as a step to avoid delay. (This step did not yield the desired
result as lawyers for both sides unreasonably prolonged the
inquiry by taking a lot of time for cross-examination and
re-examination) The copies of the affidavits and the relevant
documents were handed over to the Attorney-at-Law of the
applicant Union.
03. As there was no possibility of an amicable statement
the inquiry was fixed for 16.05.2006 with the consent of the
parties after postponing the inquiry for several dates even at
the beginning and ultimately the inquiry commenced on
24.10.2005, when the counsel for the applicant started cross
examination of the first witness Weerakeerthi Gamini Kumara
Ariyaratna, the Group Human Resources Manager on the
affidavits and the documents tendered by the employer -
Respondent.
04. The dispute in this case is the illegal dismissal of eight
(8) female employees of the factory situated at Peliyagoda by
the then Nelum Fashions (Pvt) Limited presently known as
Ranmalu Fashions (Pvt) Limited. Before the termination of
their services they were served with show cause notices and
the formal inquiries were held thereafter. The show cause
notice were produced at the Arbitration inquiry marked R12
to R 12 (g).
05. The main basic charge as stated in his show cause
notice states:-
'At the meeting with the Director on 14.08.2002 in respect
of matters submitted for discussion by you, thereafter acting
without reason or cause not only causing to abandon
employment but caused a section of the employees, not to
work"
06. However the respondent employer had sent the letters
marked R7 to the District Commissioner of Labour stating
that there was a strike organized by the Branch Union of Sri
Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya after a meeting with the
factory Management on 14. 08. 2002 at about 10 a.m. and the
union and its members on the dispute on deduction of Union
membership subscriptions from their monthly salary.
07.  According to the evidence of Miss Rani Subasinhge,
President of the Branch Union and the evidence of Mr. Leslie
Devendra, General Secretary of Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka
Sangamaya, their had been a good cordial relationship
between the Union and the Management but unfortunately
everything charged for this worse on the resumption of duties
as Manager Human Resources and Administration by Mr. W.
A. K. Ariyaratna in March 2002.
08. Before Mr. W. A. K. Ariyaratna assumed duties Rani
Subasinghe as the President of the Branch Union President
was released on full time basis for trade union work and
monthly subscriptions from members were deducted from
the pay sheets.
09. These facilities enjoyed by the Union for over seven
(7) years were withdrawn by the newly appointment, Group
Human Resources Manager Mr. W. A. K. Ariyaratna, a retired
Brigadier of the Army. According to the evidence of Rani
Subasinghe over 1000 members and physical collection of
this subscription monthly was a difficult task for the Union.
Mr. Leslie Devendra as General Secretary of the parent Union
had addressed the company on these matters. vide A2. The
company on a later date withheld certain minute books of the
Branch Union - vide letters A(6), A(7) and A (8).
10.  Mr. Leslie Devendra, General Secretary of the Union in
his evidence stated as follows:-
“,xldfõ kS;shla ;sfnkjd 40] lg jvd idudðl;ajhla
isákjd kï ta iñ;sh ms<sf.k ta idudðlhska iuÕ .Kqfokq
l< hq;=hs lsh,' ta ms<s.ekSu;a iuÕu fndfyda wjia:dj,
;sfnk jrm%idohla ;uhs mä m;lska idudðl uqo,a lmd
.ekSu' th Ndú;hka iuÕ whs;shla njg m;afjkjd' wm
ix.uh 1995 j¾Ifha muK isg 2002 j¾Ih jk;=re fï
whs;sh N=la;s úkaod' wmg m%Yakhla we;s jqfKa lsisu idOdrK
fya;=jla fkdolajd fï whs;sh ysáyeáfhau wdh;kh Wÿrd
.ekSu ksidhs'” (Vide page 4 inquiry proceedings on 2011.01.14).

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.06.2011
3A
11. The Learned Counsel for the Employer - Respondent
has brought to my notice an extract from ' Digest of cases on
Industrial Law computed by A. A. Champika Jayasinghe and
in this extract under the term 'CHECK OFF" it is stated as
follows:-
1. Ceylon Plantation Workers Union and other
petitioners Vs. R. Jayantha and others. Held that check-off is
not an automatic right which an employer is legally obliged
to grant all unions.
12. The Learned Counsel for the employer has not
produced a full copy of the Judgement in the quoted case.
In any event the more important point here is the
withdrawal of this benefit by the employer without giving
any reason. I am therefore not included to follow the part of
the Judgement quoted above without a discussion on the
full judgement which was not produced at the inquiry by the
Learned Counsel for the employer.
13. The employer respondent in its statement under
regulation 21(1) stated - vide para 6(c) that the eight employees
who were office bearers of the Branch Union had abandoned
there place of work and thereafter instigated acts of abuse
and threats to the employees of the Company, but no such
employee gave evidence at the arbitration proceedings to
prove this allegation.
14. Letters marked R7 addressed by the Manager Human
Resources and Administration to the District Commissioner
of Labour, District Office - Colombo states as follows:-
“There was a strike organized by the Branch Union on
14th August, 2002 at about 10. a.m. on the dispute on
deductions of Union membership subscription from their
monthly salary”
Therefore the position taken by the employer that there
was no indications whatsoever of the impending stoppage
of work in beyond my comprehension.
15. There is clear evidence to show that the Branch Union
has given notice of Trade Union action by letter marked A9
dated 09.08.2002 addressed to the General Manager, a copy
which letter was sent to the General Secretary of Sri Lanka
Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya.
16. When Mr. Gamini Kumara Ariyaratna, Group Human
Resources Manager failed to meet the main charge that alleged
abandonment of the place of work by the workers,
Mr.  Ariyaratna tried to bring other allegations against Rani
Subasinghe, Balika Damayanthi on malpractice in their social
activities such as Death Donation Society but no witness
was called to prove such allegation and no document was
produced in this regard. The other witnesses for the employer
did not say anything to justify the story of Mr. Ariyaratna.
17. The evidence of Rani Subasinghe explained to my
satisfaction as to why some female workers had to remain
inside the factory premises in the night of 15.08.2002. The
main reason was that Balika Damayanthi, Secretary of the
Branch Union was taken into Police custody on a complaint
made by Mr. Dayaratna, Internal Security Officer. They were
inside the premises with the knowledge and consent of the
security officer until the release of Balika Damayanthi from
the Police custody on 15th night.
18. Rani Subasinghe had been ill-treated and harassed at
the hands of the company officers as well as the Police. Under
cross examination by the Attorney-at-Law for the Respondent
employer Rani Subasinghe stated as follows:-
“ta wjia:dfõ § wdh;kh we;=f,a isá msßñ <ufhla ug
.eyqjd' uu ta fõ,dfõ isys ke;sj jeà isáhd' rd.u
biamsß;d,hg wrka .shdg miqj Èk 6la k;r lr .;a;d'
frday,ska meñK uu fmd,Sishg .syska wekaá% tlla odkak'
tys§ wdh;kfha md,l mlaIh;a iuÕ isá fiaúldjla jk
pdkaokS fld;,dj, lshk uy;añhf.a fí%ia,Ü tlla ud
lvd.;a;d lsh,d ta fmd,Sisfha wekaá%hla od ;snqKd' ta ksid
meñKs,a, odkak .shdg tal lr.kak neß jqKd'” ^2010'08'06
Èk igyka j, 14 jeks msgqfõ igyk n,kak&
After getting treatment from the Ragama Hospital she went
to make a complaint to the Police when she was taken into
custody by the Police on a false complaint made by one
Chandani Kotalawala thus preventing Rani Subasinghe from
making a complaint against the person who struck her with  a
club. Rani Subasinghe was harassed, threatened and abused
by some person at the instance of the Company.
19. Mr. Leslie Devendra, General Secretary of the Sri Lanka
Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya giving evidence explained in
detail steps taken by him to resolve this dispute but
unfortunately, Managing Director of the Company behaved
in a manner detrimental to any responsible settlement. Letters
written by Mr. Devendra, produced marked A(2), A(3), A(4),
A(5) and A(6) are self explanatory.
20. Mr. Leslie Devendra in one of the most experienced
and respected Trade Union Leaders in Sri Lanka today, I
quote below the reply given by him to a question asked by
the learned counsel for the employer - (Vide page 6 of the
inquiry proceedings dated 2010.12.16).
“m%( hï jev keje;aùula lrk wjia:dfõ § wms fndfyda
úg iel we;s fkdlr fyd| ydïmq;=ka miq niajd Tjqka iuÕ
jev lghq;= l< hq;=hs fkao@

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.06.2011
4A
W( ta ksid ;uhs uf.a ish¿u jev lghq;= lsh,d fï lïy,g
wdfõ' uq,§ we;=,aùug bv ÿkafka keye' miqj we;=,g .shd'
cx.u ÿrl:kfhka iud.fï iNdm;s iuÕ l:d lsÍug
wjia:djla b,a,d isáhd laIKslj fï m%Yakh úi|d .ekSug'
fï jev keje;aùu È.ska È.gu f.k hEug wms lsisfia;au
leu;s jqfKa keye' kuq;a iNdm;s;=ud ÿrl:khgj;a wdfõ
keye'”
(Vide page 6 last para  proceedings on 2010.12.16).
21. Taking into consideration the evidence led at the
inquiry and the written submissions tendered by the parties
I am of the view that the dismissal of the following eight (8)
employees of the factory situated at No. 81/41 Negambo Road,
Peliyagoda by the then Nelum Fashions (Pvt) Limited in
unjustified.
(1) Miss. Rani Subasinghe
(2) Miss. S. A. Priyanthi
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
(3) Miss. L. G . Kumuduni
(4) Miss. M. Inoka Peiris
(5) Miss. Nirosha Rajapaksha
(6) Miss. Balika Damayanthi
(7) Miss. Chandani Dissanayake and
(8) Miss. M. A. Madushani Jayawardene
22. Accordingly I direct that the employees mentioned in
the reference should be re-instated with all back wages within
One (01) month of the publication of this award in the gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. This award
is binding on the Ran Malu Fashion (Pvt) Limited, Biyagama,
Malwana and its lawful successor in title.
T. P
IYASOMA,
Arbitrator.
11th May, 2011.