

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
KOSALA DULLEWA FOUNDATION
FOR CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 39 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 24th July, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 24, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with
Special Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2009
1
[Certified on 24th July, 2009]
L.D.—O. (INC ) 15/2006.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  KOSALA  DULLEW A  FOUNDATION  FOR
C HILDREN  WITH  SPECIAL  NEEDS
WHEREAS an association called and known as the
“Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with Special Needs”
has been formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Association according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kosala Dullewa
Foundation for Children with Special Needs  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 39 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as are now members of the Kosala
Dullewa Foundation for Children with Special Needs
(hereinafter referred to as “the Foundation”) and such other
persons as shall hereinafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of “Kosala
Dullewa Foundation for Children with Special Needs”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by that name
may sue and be sued, with  full power and authority to have
and to use a common seal and to alter the same at its will and
pleasure.
2—PL 003161—3,450  (08/2008)
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Kosala
Dullewa
Foundation for
Children with
Special Needs.

<!-- page 3 -->

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with
Special Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2009
2
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to help underprivileged children having physical
and mental disabilities irrespective of their caste,
creed, nationality or religion, so as to make them
useful citizens who could make a contribution to
society and to the country ;
(b) to assist in the well-being of disabled children and
young adults upto the age of twenty five years ;
(c) to conduct and hold seminars, meetings, training
programs and workshops to develop skills of
disabled children and to encourage them to be
independent ;
(d) to educate and make disabled children aware of
their abilities, disabilities and limitations without
endangering themselves and others ;
(e) to commence self-employment projects and to
engage physically and mentally disabled youth in
vocational training programs ;
(f) to create an awareness among parents and family
members of disabled children and the general public,
about the contribution that disabled children could
make towards the development of the country ;
(g) to grant donations, assistance and coverage to
disabled children and to other organizations having
objects similar to those of the Corporation ;
(h) to implement projects in any part of Sri Lanka for
the benefit of the disabled children ;
(i) to collaborate with other organizations having
similar objects to those of the Corporation, whether
in  Sri Lanka or abroad ;
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with
Special Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2009
3
(j) to train or cause to be trained in Sri Lanka or abroad
at the expense of the Corporation, any child
whomsoever approved by the Corporation, for the
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation ;
(k) to initiate, organize and conduct lectures, seminars,
symposia, workshops, exhibitions and other
appropriate programs and activities in order to
promote the objects of the Corporation ;
(l) to train and to organize sports events for disabled
children in Sri Lanka or abroad ;
(m ) to organize entertainment events for disabled
children ;
(n) to propose to relevant authorities legal reforms to
uplift the rights of disabled persons ;
(o) to institute legal proceedings in appointing curators
or guardians for disabled children at the cost of the
Corporation ; and
(p) to establish book shops and libraries.
4.   (1) The management, control and administration of the
affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of
this Act and of the rules of the Corporation made under section
7, be administered by a Board of Management consisting of
such number of office bearers as may be provided for in such
rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall  consist of the members of the Executive Committee of
the Foundation holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act and who
shall hold office until a new Board of Management is elected
under the rules of the Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with
Special Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2009
4
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, and
subject to the rules of Corporation, to open, operate and close
bank accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without
security, to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest
its funds and to engage, employ and dismiss, officers and
servants as are required for the purpose of achieving the
objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor appointed by the Corporation.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka or any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountant of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
Audit of
accounts.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with
Special Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2009
5
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the  Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by the
votes of not less than two-thirds of the members present and
voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other written law, for the admission, withdrawal
or expulsion of members, the election of the office-bearers
and for the performance of the duties of such office-bearers,
agents, officers and servants of the Corporation, for the
procedure to be followed in the transaction of business by
the Corporation  and the Board of Management and generally,
for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may at
a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.
(2) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
8. The income and property of the Corporation shall be
applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the
Corporation as set forth herein and no portion thereof shall
be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly by way of
dividend, loan, bonus, profit or otherwise, to the members of
the Corporation.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property both movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and be subject to the rules of the Corporation under
section 7 it shall have full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to,
including subscriptions, fees and contributions payable to
the Foundation on that day, shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Application of
income and
property of the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with
Special Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2009
6
11.    The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
President and the Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporation
who shall sign their names to the  instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by its rules prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members.  Such institution or
institutions shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the time of dissolution
of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Property
remaining on the
dissolution of the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Kosala Dullewa Foundation for Children with
Special Needs (Incorporation) Act, No. 39 of 2009
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.