

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2288$15 - 2022 cQ,s ui 12 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2022'07'12
No.  2288/15  -  TUESDAY ,   JULY  12,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
L. D. B. 4/2012    
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-   G 37066 — 56  (07/2022)
RULES made by the Minister of Justice under section 94 of the Prisons Ordinance (Chapter 54).
 Dr. WIJEYADASA RAJAPAKSHE, 
 Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms. 
Colombo,
07th July, 2022.
Rules
Prison Rules published in the Gazette No. 7093 of March 19, 1920 are hereby further amended as follows:-
 (1) Under the heading “RULES AS TO THE MEDICAL OFFICER”, by the repeal of the rule 80 thereof and the substitution 
therefor of the following:-
“80. (1) Where a Medical Of ﬁcer or a Medical Practitioner has diagnosed a sentenced prisoner with a serious 
illness from which he is unlikely to recover, based on the written evidence of such Medical Ofﬁcer or the Medical 
Practitioner, after being recommended by a Medical  Board appointed by the Minister assigned the subject of 
health, such prisoner may be considered for placement under correctional supervision or on parole.
PRISONS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 54)
Government Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
2A
  (2) Where the Medical Of ﬁcer or the Medical Practitioner is of the opinion-
 (a) that the life of a prisoner will be endangered by further imprisonment 
and that the prisoner’s condition cannot be improved by temporary 
removal to a public hospital for surgical or other treatment; or
 (b) that the prisoner has being diagnosed with a terminal illness which 
is likely to terminate fatally within a brief period and before the 
expiration of the sentence and that the prisoner is still capable of 
being removed and there is reason to think that the prisoner has 
friends or relatives able and willing to take care of him in the event 
of his release; or 
 (c) that the mental condition of the prisoner will be adversely affected 
or endangered by further imprisonment,
the Medical Of ﬁcer or the Medical Practitioner shall forthwith, submit to the Director General of Health 
Services a full medical report together with the particulars of such prisoner on prison form 26.
 (3) The Director General of Health Services shall on receipt of such report under paragraph (2), appoint a 
Medical Board to examine the prisoner and to report on such prisoner on Prison Form 30, and forward  
such report together with his own recommendations thereon and all papers relevant to such prisoner 
marked “Urgent”, to the Minister assigned the subject of justice through the Minister assigned the subject 
of health for submission to the President, for consideration for grant of pardon under the provisions of the 
Constitution.”.
(2)  Under the heading RULES AS TO ADMISSION AND DISCHARGE OF PRISONERS:-
 (a) by the repeal of rule 165 and substitution therefor of the following:- 
“165. (1) A child of a female prisoner may be received into the prison with the mother if that child is below 
ﬁve years of age and is not attending school. When such child is received to the prison with the mother, the 
jailer shall certify on the back of the warrant that the child has been received, and obtain the Superintendent’s  
signature to the endorsement.
  (2) When a child is received into the prison, the jailer at once shall report such fact to the 
Superintendent and the Medical Ofﬁcer of the prison. The Medical Ofﬁcer shall, within twenty-four 
hours of the admission of the Child, conduct an examination of the child and submit the Medical 
report to the  Superintendent.  
  (3) The Superintendent shall inform the fact of admission of the child to the Department of 
probation and Child Care Services, forthwith which shall as soon as practicable confer with the 
Superintendent and the Medical Ofﬁcer of the prison whether it is in the best interest of the child to 
reside with the mother.
  (4) The Continued residence of the child within the prison premises is dependent upon such 
assessment.
  (5) Based on the assessment, where the Department of Prisons decides that it is not in the best 
interest of the child to reside with the mother in prison, the Department of probation and Child Care 
Services may place the child in the care of relatives of the Child if satisfactory arrangements can be 
made for the physical and psychological maintenance of the Child. If placing the child in the care 
of relatives is found not to be in the best interest of the Child, the child to be handed over to the 
Department of probation and Child Care.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
3A
  (6) Department of Prisons shall ensure facilities for the proper biological, psychological and social 
growth of Children residing with female prisoners including food, education, medical facilities and 
appropriate recreation within the prison.
  (7) As far as practicable, prison authorities shall maintain special units for mother and child in 
female prisons to ensure a safe environment for children.”.
 (b) by the repeal of rule 166 and substitution therefor of the following:- 
“166. When a child reaches the age of ﬁve years, the child shall be separated from the mother upon 
the certiﬁcate of the medical of ﬁcer that the child is in a ﬁt condition to be separated from the mother. The 
Department of prison shall escertain whether satisfactory arrangements can be made for the maintenance 
of the child outside the prison. If no such arrangements can be made, the child shall be handed over to the 
Department of Probation and Child Care.”.
(3)  Under the heading RULES AS TO SEPARATION AND CLASSIFICATION OF PRISONERS:-
 (a) by the repeal of rule 178 and substitution therefor of the following:- 
“178. Male Prisoners shall be divided into the following classes, and each class shall be kept, so far as the 
arrangements of the prison permit, separate from all other classes, that is to say:-
 (a) civil prisoners;
 (b) Prisoners awaiting trial, or on remand pending the hearing of a 
complaint, or in default of ﬁnding bail;
 (c) Prisoners under eighteen years of age;
 (d) Prisoners previously convicted;
 (e) Prisoners not previously convicted; and
 (f) according to the prisoner’s period of sentence.”;  and
 (b) by the insertion immediately after rule 178, of the following new rules:- 
“178A. (1)  Each prisoner who has been sentenced to more than six months of imprisonment shall be 
assessed by a Prisoner Assessment Committee appointed and chaired by the Superintendent as soon as such 
prisoner is admitted and from then on at least once in every twelve months in order to determine whether such 
prisoner should be transferred either within the prison or to another prison. 
 (2) In order to assess a prisoner under paragraph (1), the Prisoner Assessment Committee shall take the 
following into consideration:-
 (a) prisoner’s age and sex;
 (b) prisoner’s Social, medical, psychological and vocational 
background;
 (c) the nature of the prisoner’s offence, his attitude towards the offence 
committed by him and the length of the sentence;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
4A
 (d) whether the prisoner requires medical treatment or assistance in 
education;
 (e) the prisoner’s suitability for any particular form of vocational 
training or work;
 
 (f) prisoner’s behaviour in prison;
 (g) maintenance of prisoner’s family ties; and 
 
 (h) any other relevant factor.
“178B. (1) The risk assessment of each prisoner for the maintenance of security of each prison irrespective 
of their classiﬁcation under rule 178 shall be conducted by taking the following into consideration:-
 (a) harm to self, to other prisoners or to persons working in or visiting 
the prison (harm related risk)-
 (i) Seriousness of the offence for which the prisoner is serving a 
sentence of imprisonment or in the case of a prisoner who is 
serving a sentence for two or more offences, the seriousness of 
any of those offences;
 (ii) the duration of the sentence or the sentences being served by the 
prisoner;
 (iii) History of any mental disorders, if any;
 (iv) whether the prisoner is awaiting trial or sentencing or any further 
charges and, if so, the nature of those charges,
 (b) threat to good order in prison (order related risk)-
 (i) History of violent behavior by the prisoner;
 (ii) history of using any substance contained in the schedules to 
the Poisons, Opium and Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 
218) or a narcotic drug or a psychotropic substance in the third 
schedule and fourth schedule to the Conventions against Illicit 
Trafﬁc in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, No. 
1 of 2008;
 (c) the likelihood of escape (Security related risk)-
 (i) History of escapes or attempted escapes from the custody of the 
prison;
 (ii) any other matter speci ﬁed by the Superintendent as a matter to be 
taken into consideration;
 (d) Committing another serious offence while on prison leave or release 
(reoffending related risk); and 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
5A
 (e) investigating the commission of offences in the community in 
cooperation with associates in the outside world (crime related 
risk).”.
(4)  Under the heading RULES RELATING TO UNCONVICTED PRISONERS AND CIVIL PRISONERS-
 (a) in rule 190, by the substitution for the words “under section 60 of that ordinance.” of the words-
“under section 60 of that ordinance:
Provided however, the unconvicted prisoners or the civil prisoners shall nominate three persons from 
whom they shall receive food, clothing, bedding and other necessaries, at the time of admission to the prison.”;
 (b) by the repeal of rule 196 and substitution therefor of the following:-
“196. (1) on the payment of a fee ﬁxed by the Superintendent, any civil prisoner may be permitted by the 
Superintendent to be placed in exclusive occupation of a room or cell better equipped than and ordinary cell 
or ward, if such a room or cell is available and the condition of such prisoner warrant the provision of such 
accommodation.
(2) With the permission of the Superintendent, any civil prisoner who has been placed in exclusive 
occupation of a room or cell under paragraph (1) may procure at his expense such furniture for that room or 
cell as may be approved by the Superintendent.”;
 (c) by the repeal of rule 200 and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“200. (1) Subject as hereinafter provided, every unconvicted prisoner or civil prisoner shall be entitled, if 
the necessary arrangements can be made in the prison, to receive, once a week a visit, lasting not more than 
ﬁfteen minutes, from a party of his immediate family or nominated persons not exceeding three in number:
Provided however, that, in special circumstances of any case, the Superintendent may-
 (a) increase the number of visits which any such prisoner is entitled to 
receive under the preceding provisions of this rule;
 (b) permit any such prisoner to be visited by a party of more that three 
of his immediate family or nominated persons; and
 (c) extend the duration of any visit to more than ﬁfteen minutes.
(2) An unconvicted prisoner or civil prisoner shall not be entitled to receive any visit on a Sunday.
(3) Every visit to any unconvited prisoner or civil prisoner shall be paid at such times and shall be 
subject to such restrictions as the Superintendent may determine.
(4) In the following circumstances, the Superintendent may restrict the visits for a particular 
unconvicted prisoner or a civil prisoner-
 (a) if it is in the interest of national security;
 (b) for the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of a 
crime;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
6A
 (c) if it is in the interest of public safety;
 (d) for securing or maintaining security or good order and discipline 
in the youthful offenders’ training schools established under 
section 2 of the Youthful Offenders (Training Schools) Ordinance 
(Chapter 35);
 (e) for the protection of health or morals;
 (f) for the protection of the reputation of others;
 (g) for maintaining the authority and impartiality of the judiciary;
 (h) for the protection of the rights and freedoms of any person;
 (i) any other reason that the circumstances may require.”; and
 (d) by the repeal of rule 211 and substitution therefor of the following:-
“211. During a period  of not less than one hour in day light on each day, every unconvicted prisoner or 
civil prisoner may, for the purpose of exercise, remain out of his cell or ward in such place as may be allotted 
to such prisoner by the Superintendent:
Provided however, that, in the special circumstances of any case, the Superintendent may allow such 
prisoner to remain out of his cell or ward in such place for the purpose of exercise for a longer period than 
provided in this rule.”.
(5)  Under the heading RULE AS TO LABOUR OF CONVICTED PRISONERS by the insertion immediately after rule 
221 of the following new rule:-
“221A. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph  (2), the Commissioner - General of Prisons in 
concurrence with the Minister assigned with the subject of prisons may authorize convicted prisoners who 
have served a sentence of imprisonment for more than twelve months and who are eligible for employment to 
be so employed outside the prison premises in identiﬁed industries in public or private institutions.
(2) The Commissioner-General may identify the convicted prisoners who are eligible for employment 
outside the prison premises based on the risk assessment in rule 178B.
(3) The convicted prisoners working outside the prison shall be provided with food during working hours 
and remunerated in such amounts in accordance with the agreement entered into between the public or private 
sector employer and the Department of Prisons in conformity with the existing laws relating to industries and 
labour.
(4) The employment referred to in paragraph (1) shall be from 08.00 a.m. to 3.30 p.m. 
(5) The remuneration earned by each prisoner shall be deposited in a state bank in such prisoner’s name.
(6) Where a prisoner violates any rule or direction during his employment, the Superintendent may 
terminate his employment and recall him back to prison.
(7) Depending on the gravity of the misconduct committed by the prisoner, the Superintendent may 
forfeit remissions earned by such prisoner for not less than one week.”.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
7A
(6)  Under the heading RULES AS TO FOOD, CLOTHING AND BEDDING, by the repeal of paragraph (9) of rule 222 
and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“(9) Children who have been admitted to prison under rule 165 shall be provided with such diet as may 
be recommended by the Medical Ofﬁcer and approved by the Superintendent.”.
(7)  By the repeal of rules 236, 237 and 238 under the heading “RULES AS TO PROHIBITED ARTICLES” and the 
substitution therefor  of the following:-
“236. All articles not supplied in accordance with the Prison Ordinance and according to prison rules 
shall be deemed to be prohibited articles. Any such article which may be found in the possession of a prisoner 
without the sanction of the Superintendent or introduced into the Prison in order that such article may come 
into the possession of any prisoner shall be conﬁscated by the Superintendent.”.
“237. (1) The following shall not be admitted into the prison except by medical order or under the sanction 
of the Superintendent:-
 (i) money;
 (ii) clothing;
 (iii) cooked or uncooked food;
 (iv) drink;
 (v) letter;
 (vi) Paper ; and
 (vii) Oil
(2) The following shall not be admitted into the prison or permitted to be introduced into the  
        prison:-
 (i) alcohol;
 (ii) tobacco;
 (iii) betel;
 (iv) animals;
 (v) unauthorized books;
 (vi) cards, dice or any instrument for gaming;
 (vii) tools;
 (viii) explosive; explosive device or incendiary device;
 (ix) any substance or device that can be used in the manufacture of an 
explosive or incendiary device;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
8A
 (x) Ammunition;
 (xi) Any pistol, revolver, ri ﬂe, machine gun, shot gun or any other kind 
gun;
 (xii) Weapons;
 (xiii) any device or instrument designed or commonly used, or that has 
been or is capable of being adapted or modi ﬁed, for the purpose of 
inﬂicting any kind of bodily injury or harm to a person or assisting 
a prisoner to escape from a prison;
 (xiv) mobile telephone, mobile telephone accessory or other device that 
may be used to make or receive a telephone call, mobile telephone 
charger;
 (xv) Subscriber Indenti ﬁcation Modules (SIM Cards);
 (xvi) a substance that is a prescription drug without the prior approval of 
the Medical Ofﬁcer;
 (xvii) A substance contained in the schedules to the Poisons, Opium and 
Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218); a syringe or needle; a 
device capable of being used for the administration of a substance by 
means of the drawing of smoke or fumes (resulting from the heating 
or burning of the drug or substance) including a device known as a 
bong;
 (xviii) a narcotic drug or a psychotropic substance in the Third schedule 
and Fourth schedule to the conventions against Illicit Traf ﬁc in 
Narcotic Drugs and psychotropic Substances Act, No. 1 of 2008;
 (xix) any ﬂammable, corrosive, or toxic substance that is determined to 
pose a threat to the safety and security of the prison;
 (xx) Paint;
 (xxi) acid or alkali;
 (xxii) glue or other adhesive;
 (xxiii) herbicide; fungicide; or insecticide;
 (xxiv) pressurized spray canister;
 (xxv) a video game, computer game, or movie;
 (xxvi) any pornographic material;
 (xxvii) a camera or other device capable of capturing or recording images 
(whether digitally or on ﬁlm or tape);
 (xxviii) a 2-way radio (also known as a walkie-talkie);

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'12
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 12.07.2022
9A
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,   SRI  LANKA.
 (xxix) drones;
 (xxx) any device that includes a mode or other device enabling it to 
transmit or receive data to or from a network of computers;
 (xxxi) any data storage device;
 
 (xxxii) any other digital, electronic, or electric device or equipment; and 
 (xxxiii) any diagram, plan or other document, or audio or video recording, 
or any other material of any kind, that instructs, teaches or otherwise 
guides a person how to make any item referred to above or about a 
method of escaping from a prison or causing an insurrection, riot or 
other disturbance at a prison.”.
EOG 07-0064
 