

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.05.2013
1A
wxl 1810$45 - 2013 uehs ui 17 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'05'17
No. 1810/45  - FRIDAY , MAY  17,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CIVIL  A VIATION  AUTHORITY  OF  SRI  LANKA
Notice by the Director General of Civil Aviation Under the Air Navigation Regulation 196
MEMBERS of the public are hereby notifed that this Office has received on 31st January, 2013 an application dated
30th January, 2013 from Lakwin Aviation (Pvt.) Ltd., at No. Level 26, East Tower, World Trade Centre, Echelon Square,
Colombo 01, seeking and Air Operator Certificate to engage in domestic, private and charter Air Service Operation in
compliance with Civil Aviation Act and Regulations made thereunder. Business name of the company is Lakwin Aviation
(Pvt.) Ltd. with the trade name as “Lakwinair”. The Directors of the Lakwin Aviation (Private.) Limited are declared as follows.
Mr. Lakshitha Weerasinghe,
Ms. Sunali Abeygunawardhana Samarasinghe.
Lakwin Aviation (Pvt.) Ltd. has nominated Mr. Lakshitha Weerasinghe to be the Accountable Manager in charge of
the proposed operations of air services.
A copy of the aforementioned application is kept at the Technical Library, Ground Floor, of Head Quarters of the
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka, No. 04, Hunupitiya Road, Colombo 02, for the perusal of the members of the public,
during Office hours of any working days.
Members of the public are hereby informed that this office would proceed with the certification process of this
application after 13th June, 2013 as per the established procedures to examine the degree of applicant’s compliance with the
applicable Legislative Provisions, Air Navigation Regulations, International Standards and  Recommended Practices specified
by ICAO and associated Local Requirements adopted by this Office and ascertain their level of competence for the safe,
secure and efficient operation of proposed Air Services, prior to granting them the requisite Air Operator Certificate and
Charter Licence together with other relevant approvals for the commencement of proposed operations.
Any person may, not less than 10 days before the aforementioned date in the penultimate paragraph, make
representations to me in writing, setting out the specific grounds on which such representations are made in respect of this
application,  in accordance with the Air Navigation Regulations. Such representations shall accompany written evidence
as to the truth of any statement contained therein. A Copy of every such representation shall be sent to the applicant, at the
same time as it is sent to this Office and a certificate to that effect shall be attached to the representation.
H. M. C. N
IMALSIRI
Director General of Civil Aviation and
Chief Executive Officer.
Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka,
No. 04, Hunupitiya Road,
Colombo 02,
17th May, 2013.
05 - 858
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.