

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 6.75 Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June  03, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 31st May, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
(AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  14  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2005
1
Short title.
Amendment of
section 17 of
Act, No. 15 of
1979.
2 —P.L. 000106 — 5,650 (02/2005)
[Certified on 31st May,  2005]
L. D. — O. 63/2004.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  CODE  OF  CRIMINAL  PROCEDURE
A CT , NO . 15 OF  1979
Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Code of Criminal Procedure
(Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2005.
2. Section 17 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection
(7) of that section and the substitution therefor of the
following subsection :—
“(7) When the compensation ordered is by a
Magistrate’s Court, such compensation shall not exceed
one hundred thousand rupees to each aggrieved party,
notwithstanding that such amount is in excess of the
amount a Magistrate may normally impose as fine.”.
3. Section 123 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “any specimen of saliva, urine, hair or finger
nail”, of the words “any specimen of blood, saliva, urine, hair
or finger nail”.
4. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 126 of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 126A  of that enactment :—
126A . (1) No person shall be entitled during
a trial on indictment in the High Court, to
adduce evidence in support of the defence of
an alibi, unless he has —
(a) stated such fact to the police at the time
of his making his statement during the
investigation ; or
Amendment of
section 123 of
the principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 126
A  in
the principal
enactment.
“Notice of
alibi.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2005
(b) stated such fact at any time during the
preliminary inquiry ; or
(c) raised such defence, after indictment has
been served, with notice to the Attorney-
General at any time prior to fourteen days
of the date of commencement of the trial :
Provided however, the Court may, if it
is of opinion that the accused has adduced
reasons which are sufficient to show why
he delayed to raise the defence of alibi
within the period set out  above, permit
the accused at any time thereafter but prior
to the conclusion of the case for the
prosecution, to raise the defence of alibi.
(2) The original statement should contain
all such information as to the time and place at
which such person claims he was and details as
to the persons if any, who may furnish evidence
in support of his alibi.
(3) For the purposes of this section
“evidence in support of an alibi” means
evidence tending to show that by reason of the
presence of the defendant at a particular place
or in particular area at a particular time he was
not, or was not likely to have been, at the place
where the offence is alleged to have been
committed at the time of the alleged
commission.”.
5. Section 147 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “two certified
copies” of the words “three certified copies”.
Amendment of
section 147 of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2005
3
 
6. Section 154 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)
of that section:—
(2) by the addition, immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1) of the following new subsections :—
“(2) Upon the committal of the accused for
trial before the High Court, the accused may state
to Court that he is willing to plead guilty to a
lesser offence if he is indicted in the High Court
and the Magistrate shall record such statement :
Provided  however, the fact that such a
statement had been made shall in no way prevent
the accused from proceeding to trial in the High
Court :
Provided further, the fact that such a statement
had been made shall in no way prejudice the
accused at the trial.
(3) Where the accused, on indictment in the
High Court states that he is willing to plead guilty
to a lesser offence for which he might have been
convicted on that indictment and the Court is
willing to accept that plea, the judge shall in
sentencing the accused, have regard to the fact
that the accused had indicated in the Magistrate’s
Court his willingness to plead guilty to the lesser
offence.
(4) The fact that the accused has made a
statement under subsection (2) shall not be read
and construed as imposing any obligation on the
Court or the Attorney-General to accept a plea of
guilt made by the accused in the High Court to a
lesser offence for which he might have been
convicted on the indictment filed in that High
Court.”.
Amendment of
154 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2005
7. Section 197 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
197. (1) If the accused pleads guilty to—
(a) the offence with which he is indicted; or
(b) a lesser offence for which he could be
convicted on that indictment and the
Court and the Attorney- General are
willing to accept that plea,
and it appears to the satisfaction of the Judge
that he rightly comprehends the effect of his
plea, the plea shall be recorded on the
indictment and he may be convicted thereon :
Provided that when the offence so pleaded
to is one of murder, the Judge may refuse to
receive the plea and cause the trial to proceed
in like manner as if the accused had pleaded
not guilty.
(2) The Judge shall in sentencing the accused
have regard to the fact that he so pleaded.”.
8. Section 205 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
205. If the accused pleads guilty to the
offence with which he is indicted or to a lesser
offence for which he could be convicted on that
indictment, the provisions of section 197 shall
apply.”.
“Plea of
guilty and
sentencing.
Replacement of
section 197 of
the principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 205 of
the principal
enactment.
“Section 197
to apply in
dealing with
plea of guilty
and
sentencing.

<!-- page 6 -->

Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2005
5
Amendment of
section 263 of
the principal
enactment.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
9. Section 263 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “in his own recognizance or with sureties for
his appearance.” of the words :—
“in his own recognizance or with sureties for his
appearance :
Provided however that every trial in the High
Court, with a jury or without a jury, shall as far as
practicable, be held day to day.”.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.