

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2016
1A
(Published by Authority)
PART  I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
1A
wxl 1981$43 - 2016 wf.daia;= ui 23 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2016'08'23
No. 1981/43 -  TUESDAY   AUGUST  23,  2016
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
THE  PRINTING  SERVICE  MINUTES  OF  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT
PRINTING –   AMENDMENT   No.  03
THE Public Service Commission has ordered to amend the Code of Printing Service Minutes of the Department of Government
Printing published in the Extra ordinary Gazette  Notification No.  1816/12 dated 26 th June 2013 amended by the
Extra ordinary Gazette Notifications No. 1892/40 dated 12th December 2014 and No. 1893/39 dated 19th December 2014 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, as follows.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
 H.M. GAMINI SENA VIRATNE,
  Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
On this 03rd  day of June  2016.
(i) A new sub clause will be included under 10.1 (iii) as follows :
10.1 (iii) – recruitment from internal applicants by giving marks for seniority and skills shall be done by a structured
interview.
(ii) Paragraph 10.1.1 will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same :
Post of Assistant Government Printer (Production)
Recruitment for 50% of the vacancies will be done from external applicants by a competitive test and an interview to
check the qualifications according to the qualifications mentioned under 2.1 (i) of the First Appendix.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
EXTRAORDINARY

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2016
2A
Recruitment for 25% of the vacancies will be done from internal applicants by a limited competitive examination
according to the qualifications mentioned under section 2.2 (i) of the First Appendix.
Recruitment for 25% of the vacancies will be done from internal applicants based on the scheme of marks given for
seniority and skills, by a structured interview according to the scheme of marks, given by the Public Service Commission
mentioned under 2.3 (i) of the First Appendix.
When a number of applicants possessing sufficient qualifications is not availabe in a certain category, the Public
Service Commission can recruit the said amount from another group.
(iii) A new clause will be included under 10.1.5 (vi) as follows :
10.1.5(vi) – As described in 2.3 of the First Appendix, applications from qualified officers are called to recruit internal
applicants by a structured interview and will be recruited by the Public Service Commission according to the
order of skills and the number of vacancies, by giving marks for seniority and skills by a structured interview,
according to a procedure approved by the Public Service Commission.
(iv) Paragraphs 1, 4 and 6 contained in Table 10.3.9 will be omitted and substituted the new paragraphs as follows.
10.3.9
Designation External Applicants Internal Applicants Apprentices
1. Offset Litho Printing Operator 30% 20% 50%
4. Computer Type Setter and Designer
for Print 30% 30% 40%
6. Printing Technicians 80% 20%
(v) Paragraph 15.4 will be omitted and substituted the new paragraphs as mentioned below :
15.4 - Up to a period of 07 years, since the approval of this service minutes, out of the applicants who are selected for
the posts of Letter Press Operator and Print Finisher, for the Print Finishers selected from the internal applicants,
getting through a Book Binding course with a duration not less than 06 months conducted by the Sri Lanka
Institute of Printing, and for the selected Letter Press Operators getting through a practical test conducted by the
Department of Government Printing after one year from the date they are selected for the posts, are the adequate
requirements for them to be appointed for the permanent posts. Futher under the same section for the applicant
who are selected for the Offset Litho Printing Operators, from the Internal applicants, it is adequate to get
through a course on Lithography with a duration not less than 06 months, conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute
of Printing, for them to be appointed for the permanent posts. After 07 years from the date of approval of this
constitution, in case the NVQ Level 5 will be existed, the provisions contained under section 10.3 of this
constitution must be applicable.
(vi) The title indicated under 2.2 of the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following title in place of same.
2.2 – Qualifications to recruit the internal applicants from a limited competitive examination and a structured interview
to check the qualifications.
(vii) A new sub clause will included under 2.3 of the First Appendix as follows :
2.3 – Qualifications to recruit internal applicants by a structured interview.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2016
3A
1. Assistant Government Printer (Production)
(a) Should be an officer of Grade I of the service category of Supervisory Management Assistant –
Technology, possessing an active service period of 05 years in a post of Head Foreman in Printing
Service.
(b) Should have completed a satisfactory service period of 05 years (immediate preceding) as at the last
date of accepting applications.
(viii) Paragraph 3 (iii) of the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same.
3 (iii) – Should have possessed a certificate after following a course in printing Technology relevant to the post at the Sri
Lanka Institute of Printing or recognized local/international institution.
(ix) Paragraphs 4.1.1 (b), 4.2.1 (b) and 4.6.1 (b) of the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new
paragraphs in place of same :
4.1.1 (b) – Should have possessed an experience of not less than 05 years of the relevant field in a recognized
institution.
4.2.1 (b) - Should have possessed an experience of not less than 05 years of the relevant field in a recognized institution.
4.6.1 (b) - Should have possessed an experience of not less than 05 years of the relevant field in a recognized institution.
(x) Paragraph 4.1.3 of the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same :
4.1.3 – For internal applicants
(a) Should be an officer of Printing Assistance Service
 in Grade II or a higher grade who has completed an active
service period of not less than 15 years in the Department.
or
(b) Should be an officer of  Printing Assistance Service in Grade II or a higher grade who has completed an active
service period of not less than 10 years in the department,        and
Must have got through a course in Lithography conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing
            or
(c) Should have possessed an experience of 06 years as a Letter Press Machine Operator
 in the Department of
Government Printing.
(xi) A new clause will be included under 4.1.4 in the First Appendix as follows :
4.1.4 – Recruitment for this post will be made at a ratio of 30% from external applicants, 20% from internal applicants and
50% from apprentices.  Provided however, the Government Printer can recruit applicants from another group in
case sufficient number of qualified applicants are not available from a certain category.
(xii) Pa ragraph 4.2.2 in the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same :
4.2.2 – For internal applicants
(a) Must be an officer of Printing Assistance Service in Grade II or a higher grade who has completed an active
service period of not less than Fifteen (15) years in the department.
(xiii) Pa ragraph 4.5.1 in the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same :

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2016
4A
4.5.1 – For external applicants
(a) Should have got through the General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level (G.C.E. – O/L) Examination in
six (06) subjects at one sitting at least with credit passes for four (04) subjects including Mathematics,
Medium Language i.e. Sinhala/Tamil/English, Science.
(b) Must possess an experience in the relevant field of a recognized institution for not less than five (05) years
together with the training period.
(c) Must possess a proficiency certificate Level 4 of NVQ relevant to the field.
(xiv) Paragraph 4.5.2 of the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same :
4.5.2 – For internal applicants
(a) Should have passed six subject at the General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level (G .C.E. O/L)  Examination
at least with two (02) credit passes including Mathematics and Medium Language i.e. Sinhala/Tamil/
English.
(b) (i) Applicant's Should have passed all the subject at the General Certificate of Education Advanced Level
(G.C.E. A/L) Examination at one sitting except the General Test (It is sufficient to pass in (03) three
subjects under the Old syllabus at one sitting)
(ii) In an occasion where English language has not been got throught at the General Certificate of Education
Advanced Level (G.C.E. A/L) as described in (i) above, a Credit Pass must have been obtained for same
subject at the General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level (G.C.E. O/L) Examination at any time.
(xv) Paragraph 4.5.3 in the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same :
4.5.3 – For apprentices
(a) Should have passed the General Certificates of Education Ordinary Level (G .C.E. O/L) six subjects at one
sitting at least with four (04) credit passes including Mathematics and Medium Language i.e. Sinhala/
Tamil/English.
(b) (i) Should have passed all the subjects at the General Certificate of Education Advanced Level
(G.C.E. A/L) Examination at one sitting except the general test (It is sufficient to pass in three (03)
subjects under the old syllabus at one sitting).
(ii) In an occasion where the Medium language i.e. Sinhala/Tamil and English languages has not been got
through at the General Certificate of Education Advanced Level (G .C.E. A/L) as described in (i) above,
"A" Passes must have been obtained for same subjects at the General Certificate of Education Ordinary
Level (G .C.E. O/L) Examination at any occasion.
(xvi) A new sub clause will be included under 4.5.4 of the First Appendix as follows :
4.5.4 - Recruitment for this post will be done at a ratio of 30% from external applicants, 30% from internal
applicants and 40% from apprentices.  Provided however, the Government Printer can recruit applicants
from another group in case an adequate number of qualified applicants are not available from a certain
group.
(xvii)  A new sub clause will be included under 4.6.2 of the First Appendix as follows :
4.6.2 (b) Should be an officer of Printing Assistance Service
 in Grade II or a higher grade who has completed
an active service period of not less than 10 years in the department and must possess a certificate
obtained from a course followed with regard to book binding of the Sri Lanka  Institute of  Printing or
a recognized institution.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'08'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2016
5A
(xviii) Paragraph 4.7.2 of the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same.
4.7.2 – For apprentices
(a) Should have passed the General Certificate of Education Ordinary Level (G .C.E. O/L) six subjects at one sitting
with four (04) Credit Passes including Mathematics and Medium Language i.e. Sinhala/Tamil/English.
(b) (i) Should have passed all the subjects at the General Certificate of Education Advanced Level (G.C.E. A/L)
Examination at one sitting except the general test (It is sufficient to pass in three (03) subjects under the old
syllabus at one sitting).
(xix) A new sub clause will be included under 4.7.3 of the First Appendix as follows :
4.7.3
(a) Recruitment for this post will be done at a ratio of 80% from internal applicants and 20% from apprentices.
Provided however, the Government Printer can recruit applicants from another group in case an adequate number
of qualified applicants are not available from a certain group.
(b) Selection of internal applicants for this post will be made based on the results of a structured interview.  Provisions
contained in Section 10.3.8 of the Constitution will apply with regard to the structured interview.
(xx) Paragraph 5 of the First Appendix will be omitted and substituted the following new paragraph in place of same.
5 – Under the period of service described in Sections 4.1.1.(b), 4.2.1 (b) and 4.6.1 (b) above, the applicants must
confirm that they have paid contributions to Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) / Pension Scheme in respect
of their service.
(xxi) 10.2.6 will be omitted.
(xxii) Sub clause 10.3.14 (iv) will be omitted and substituted the following new sub clause in place of the same :
Relevant competency certificates will be offered to the applicants who obtained, stipulated competency Qualifications.
09 - 284
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.