

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 333
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 302 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"425 – 2025 fmnrjdß ui 21 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'02'21
No. 2,425 –  FRiday, FEbRuaRy, 21, 2025
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 14th March, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th February, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 K. G. Pradeep  Pushpa  Kumara,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
02nd January, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
299 - b 082656 - 5,403 (02/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
300
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
301
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
302
Post - v acant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim marriages – (Sinhala)
kaLutaRa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the Post) 
with 02 credit passes in not more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. - In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification).
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www .rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar  General’ s 
department .
 09. duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 21st March 2025, by registered  post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W . R. a. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar  General.
Registrar  General’ s department ,
No. 234/a3, denzil  kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla ,
on this 31st day of January , 2025.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
303
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
kalutara beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Mihiripenna area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
beruwala area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar 
of Maggonabadda area of kalutara & 
Panadura thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara beruwala
Post of addtional Muslim Marriages 
Registrar of Mihiripenna area of kalutara 
& Panadura thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara beruwala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
dharga town area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara bulathsinhala
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Veyangalla area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara Palinda Nuwara
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Pelena area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara Panadura
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
thotawatta area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara Pandura
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Eluwila area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
kalutara Panadura
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Henamulla area of kalutara & Panadura 
thotamuna division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, kalutara.
02-90

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
304
ELECTION   COmmISSION
Open Recruitment for the Post of Legal officer in the Executive Service Category of the Election 
Commission - 2025
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who meet the qualifications mentioned in this announcement to fill 
the vacancies in the post of Legal Officer Grade III in the Executive Service Category of the Election Commission.
01. method of recruitment
Out of the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications specified in the notification, the candidates securing the 
highest marks on the basis of the results of an aptitude assessment interview conducted by an aptitude assessment 
interview panel appointed by the Election commission will be recruited for the vacancies. the aptitude assessment 
interview will be conducted in accordance with the scoring procedure approved by the Public Service commission 
(mentioned under No. 06).
02. Qualifications Required
 I. Educational/ Professional Qualification
  Must have sworn in as an attorney-at-law of the Supreme court.
 ii. Experience
the candidate should have a minimum of three (03) years of active professional experience as an attorney-at-
Law after being sworn in as an attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court. during the interview, the candidate must 
provide documents that clearly state the duration of their experience, date and time, and bear an official stamps 
as proof of their active professional experience.
or
The candidate should have at least three (03) years of experience in the field of law in a government institution 
after being sworn in as an attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court. the experience should be related to the 
following functions :
(a) Liaising with the Attorney General's Department regarding legal affairs and cases.
(b) Legal matters related to contract.
(c) Legal proceedings in relation to relevant legislation.
(d) Preparation of legal documents such as bills, circulars, and regulations.
(e) Experience in legal or judicial proceedings or investigative proceedings conducted by various statutory 
bodies.
(this experience should be demonstrated through relevant documentation attested by the Secretary, Head of 
department)
 III. Physical Qualificaitons
  Every candidate must be physically and mentally fit to work in any part of Sri Lanka and perform the duties of 
the post.
 IV . Other qualifications.
•	Must be a Sri Lankan citizen.
•	applicants must be of excellent character
•	Must have completed all the necessary qualifications for recruitment to the post by the closing date of 
application.
03. Terms and conditions of employment and service for this position :
 i. the position is permanent and pensionable. the candidate must submit to any future policy decisions taken 
by the government regarding the pension scheme they are entitled to. they must also contribute to the 
Widows and orphans Pension Scheme/ Widowers and orphans Pension Scheme, Paying the contribution 
as prescribed by the government from time to time.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
305
 ii. The appointment is subject to a probationary period of three years. The candidate must pass the first 
Efficiency Bar Examination as mentioned in the recruitment procedure within three years of recruitment to 
the post.
 iii. The candidate must obtain proficiency in other prescribed official languages/language as per the provisions 
mentioned in Public administrative circular No. 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020.
 iv. The appointment is subject to the procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, the Establishment's 
code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the government's code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, the government's Financial Regulations, and other departmental orders.
 v. the language medium applied for cannot be charged later, and the language medium for which the candidate 
is eligible for appointment will be the language medium specified in their application.
04. Age limit :
 Should be not less than 21 years or not more than 45 years of age on the closing date of application.
05. Salary Scale :
the Monthly salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170-Rs.110,895/- (SL-1-2016) 
according to the Public administrative circular No. 03/2006 dated 25.02.2016.
06. the following marking scheme will be applicable to the aptitude assessment interview.
Se. 
No.
Subject Marks Max. Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications
i) Post Graduation in Law from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission
25 20
ii) a Post Graduate diploma in Law from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission or a Post Graduate diploma 
in Law from the institute of advanced Legal Education of the Sri 
Lanka Law college.
20
• Bachelor of Law with first class pass 15
• bachelor of Law with Second class upper pass 10
• bachelor of Law with class Pass 07
• bachelor of Law with General Pass 05
obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission
ii) First class Pass in Final y ear of Law college Second class Pass in 
final year of Law College
10
05
Note I: the above 05 marks will be awarded only it the final examination 
of the Law college has been passed with honors.
Note II: Marks will be awarded only for the highest qualification.
02. Additional Professional Experience
additional professional experience of the same nature as mentioned 
in 2(ii) of the notice calling for applications (excluding the three years 
of experience required for basic qualification) will be considered for 
marks as follows:
- Five marks per year, maximum 25 marks 25

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
306
Se. 
No.
Subject Marks Max. Marks
- For a period of more than six months and less than a year, three points 
will be awarded
the completed service of not less than 15 years must be mentioned 
in the certificate issued on behalf of the applicant. The additional 
experience must be proven by a certificate from a lawyer or an officer 
of the judicial service.
35
If the candidate completed the above-mentioned qualifications during 
their tenure in a legal position in a government or private sector, they 
should prove it by means of a service certificate from the relevant 
department/ institution head.
Candidates with experience in election law and related judicial 
work will be awarded up to 10 marks, at a rate of 3 marks per year 
of experience (Subject to verification by certificates.) 10
03. knowledge of Information Technology: 10
i)  Have studied information t echnology or computer Science as 
major subjects for a degree from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission.
10
ii) Hold a Diploma in the field of Information and Communication 
t echnology obtained from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or from the Sri Lanka Law college or any 
other professional body recognized by the government.
08
iii) Hold a diploma in computer Science or information t echnology 
from a university recognized by the university Grants commission 
or an NVQ 5 or above diploma in computer Science or information 
t echnology from another institution.
05
iv) Hold certificate obtained after taking courses/ participating in 
training programs in the field of Information and Communication 
t echnology law from a university Grant commission or from 
the Sri Lanka Law college or any other government-recognized 
training/professional institution. A maximum of two certificates of 
two marks each will be awarded.
Note: Marks will only be awarded for the highest qualification 
achieved.
04
04. Language Proficiency :
in addition to the medium of legal education received in Sinhala, 
t amil or English, candidates will be awarded marks based on their 
proficiency in the other two language mediums.
7.5 each 15
05. Skills shown in the interview 15
       i) common sense and intelligence 05
      ii) Knowledge of modern expertise in the field of law 05
     iii) articulation and personality 05
Total 100
Note : If the certificate submitted during the aptitude evaluation interview do not specify the relevant dates. It is the applicant's 
responsibility to provide the dates in writing from the concerned institution. Certificates without specified dates and without 
confirmation of the date will not be taken into account for awarding marks.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
307
07. Identity of Candidates :
candidates who have submitted complete applications will only be invited for the aptitude assessment interview. 
During the interview, original and duly attesting copies of all certificates must be presented. To prove one's identity, 
the following documents are accepted:
 i. Valid National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons ;
 ii. Valid Passport.
08. Application procedure :
To apply for the position of Legal Officer Grade III, applicants must follow the guidelines below:
 i. applications should be sent via registered post to reach the address "commissioner General of Elections, 
Election Commission, Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya" on or before 14.03.2025. applications received after that 
date will not be considered.
 ii. applicants must prepare their applications in their own handwriting using both sides of a4 size papers. the 
application should include item Nos. 01 to 04 on the first page, Nos. 05 to 10 on the second page, and 11 and 
12 on the third page. a  sample application from is provided at the end of this gazette  notification for reference.
 iii. The application envelope should be marked " Recruitment to the post of Legal Officer Grade III" at the top 
left corner.
 iv. the candidate's signature on the application must be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice 
of the Peace/ Commission of Oaths/ Attorney-at-law/ Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer of the Three-
Armed Forces or an officer holding permanent position in the Government or Provincial Government Service 
drawing a consolidate monthly salary of Rs. 47,615/- or more.
 v. Officials currently employed in public service of provincial public service should submit their applications 
through the Head of department in which they are working.
 vi. Applications that do not conform to the format of the attached model application form will be rejected. 
complaints about lost or delayed applications will not be entertained.
09.  furnishing false Information :
Providing false or incorrect information in the application will result in the cancellation of the applicant's candidature 
if discovered before recruitment. if such false or incorrect information is discovered after recruitment, the employee 
will be dismissed following the relevant procedures.
10. The Election Commission reserves the right to fill or opt not to fill vacancies.
11. In the case of any discrepancy or inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
12. the Election commission's decision on matters not covered in this announcement or in case of any issues that may arise 
during the recruitment process will be final and conclusive.
by order of the Election commission,
 H. M. T. D. Herath,
 Secretary.
Election commission,
07th  February, 2025.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
308
Specimen Application 
Open Recruitment for the Post of Legal Officer of the Election Commission - 2025
 (For office use only)
Language medium in which the test is taken Write the relevant Number in the box. 
(Sinhala-2/ t amil-3/ English-4)
Note : the language medium applied cannot be changed later.
1) 1.1 Name in full (Mr./Mrs./Miss.) :
  ………………………………………………………………………………
  (in Sinhala/ t amil) 
 1.2 Name in Full:
  ……………………………………………………………………………
  (in English block capitals)  
 1.3 Name with initials at the end: …………………………………………
  (in English capital Letters)
  ex : GuNa W aRdHaNa  M. G. b. S. k)
 1.4 Name with initials:
  …………………………………………………………………………
  (in Sinhala/ t amil)
2) Address :
 2.1 Permanent address:
  ……………………………………………………………………………
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2 Permanent address :
  ……………………………………………………………………………
  (in Sinhala/ t amil)
 2.3 address to which the letter calling for the interview should be sent:
  ……………………………………………………………………………
  (in English block capitals)
 2.4 t elephone Number : ……………………………………………………

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
309
3) Gender :  Male - 0
  female - 1  (Write the relevant number in the box)
4) civil Status : Married - 1
  unmarried - 2 (Write the relevant number in the box) 
5)  5.1  date of birth : y ear ……… Month ……………. date ……………
 
 5.2 age as at closing application: years …………. months………………… days………..
 
 5.3 National identity card No.: 
6) Particulars of the qualifications obtained as per the notification calling for applications for the interview:
 Qualifications Obtained from  Obtained on/duration
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
7) y ear in which you were sworn in as an attorney-at-law of the Supreme court :
8) Particular of each qualification under Item No. 06 of the notification calling for application :
 Qualifications Obtained from  Obtained on/duration
1. Additional Educational Qualifications
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
2.  Additional Professional Qualifications
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
3. additional Experiences
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
4. English Language Proficiency
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
5. information technology Skills
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………
 ……………………… ………………………… ………………………

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
310
9) Have you ever been convicted by the court for any offence ? …………
 (if "y es" please give details)
 …………………………………………………………………………………
10)  Applicant's Certificate
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that if any 
of the particulars in this application is found to be false or incorrect before selection my application will be rejected 
and i am liable to be dismissed from service without any compensation if any such information is found to be false or 
incorrect after selection. i hereby also declare that i will abide by  all the rules.
 ……………………… ……………………………,
 date Signature.
11) attestation of the applicant's signature
i certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………………………………………… is known to me personally and 
he/she placed his/her signature on …………………………….. in my presence.
……………………………………,
Signature and stamp of the attester.
Name : ……………………………………………………
designation : ……………………………………………………
date : ……………………………………………………
12) Certification of the Head of the Department/ Institution
 Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………… submitting the application is employed in this institution and holds a permanent and 
pensionable/ temporary post and fulfills the requirement mentioned in the Gazette notification relevant to applying for 
this post and has not been subject to disciplinary punishment of any kind and I hereby state that he/she can be released 
from service if selected.
…………………………………………………,
Signature of the Head of the development/ institute.
Name : …………………………………………
designation : …………………………………………
address : …………………………………………
date : …………………………………………
(Place rubber stamp)
02-106

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
311
PubLIC   SER vICE   COmmISSION
Recruitment Open basis for the Post of Legal Officer (Grade III) of the Executive Service Category) - 
2025
aPPLicatioNS  are invited for the vacancy in the post of Legal Officer (01) in the Officer of the Public Service Commission 
from the citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the following qualifications.
01. method of Recruitment:
The candidate who obtains the highest marks from among those who are meeting with the qualifications set out in 
the notice will be selected and recruited to the vacancy upon the results of an interview for evaluating the eligibility 
conducted by a board of interview appointed by the Public Service commission. the interview for evaluating the 
eligibility will be held in conformity with the making scheme (Mentioned under No. 07) approved by the Public Service 
commission.
The effective date of appointment will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
 I. Educational/ Professional Qualifications :
  Should have sworn in as an attorney at Law in the Supreme court.
 ii.  Experience:
  Should have obtained an active professional experience not less than three (03) years subsequent to swearing in as 
an Attorney-at-Law in the Supreme Court. (The period of experience, date and official seal of the attester should 
be clearly indicated in the documents provided at the interview in proof of practical professional experience)
  or
  Should have obtained experience in a Post relating to legal matters is not less than 03 years* in a public institution 
subsequent to swearing in as an attorney-at-Law in the Supreme court. 
  (these matters should have proved through a letter issued by the Secretary/ Head of the department/ institution)
  Note : Copies of the document proving basic qualifications, certified by the Candidate himself should be 
attached to the application form. The applications which do not contain the certificates clearly stating the date of 
commencement of the service period and the last date of service, shall be rejected without notice.
  * a  post relating to legal matters means a post where a degree in Law or having been sworn in as an attorney-at-
Law in the Supreme Court is considered as a basic qualifications for recruitment.
 iii. Physical fitness :
  Every candidate should be physically fit and mentally sound to serve and perform duties of the post in any part of 
Sri Lanka.
 iV . Other Qualifications :
• Should be of excellent moral character,
• Should be computer literate and able to use e-mail and MS Office effectively,
• All qualifications mentioned above should have been completed in every respect as at the date on which this 
notice is published in the Gazette.
• 
03. Terms of Engagement in Service and Conditions of Service:
 I. This post is permanent and pensionable. You are subject to the policy decision made by the Government in the 
future on the Pension Scheme entitled to you. you are required to contribute to the Widows'/ Widowers' and 
orphans Pension Scheme. you shall pay the contribution for the same as prescribed by the Government from time 
to time.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
312
 II. This appointment will be subject to a probationary period of three (03) years. Officers should pass the first efficiency 
bar examination within 03 years from the date of recruitment as prescribed in the Scheme of Recruitment.
 III. You are required to acquire the proficiency in the prescribed other official language/ official languages in terms of 
the provisions of Public administration circular 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020.
 IV .  This appointment will be subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government, the relevant Supreme 
court Rules, and to the other departmental orders.
 V .  candidates will have to indicate the medium of early to the post and will not be allowed to change the medium 
later and medium of language for which you are eligible for appointment shall be medium of language mentioned 
by you in the application form.
04. Age Limit :
 Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing  date of applications.
05. Salary Scale :
this post carries the Monthly Salary Scale of Rs. 47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170-Rs.110,895/- (SL-1-2016) in 
terms of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016.
06. functions relating to the post:
 i. appear for/represent the Public Service commission, as applicable, explaining the position of the commission 
on matters brought before the administrative appeals tribunal, Human Rights commission of Sri Lanka, court 
of Appeal, Supreme Court, Parliament Petitions Committee/Other committees of Parliament/ Official Language 
commission and ombudsman and other institutions as may be instituted by the Government from time to time 
against the decisions/ orders of the Public Service commission.
 ii. Prepare all reports relating to legal matters and maintain the files.
 iii. Liaise with the attorney General's department regarding legal matters.
 iv.  Prepare the relevant reports on inquiries made by the commission to investigate allegations of bribery or 
corruption and appear before such commission with relevant information when calling.
 v. appear before the respective court on representing the Public Service commission when Hon. attorney General 
does not appear for the commission.
 vi. other duties assigned by the Public Service commission.
07.  Interview for evaluating the eligibility will be on the basis of the marking scheme below:
Serial 
No.
Subject Maximum 
Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications : 15
Note : Marks will be awarded only for the highest qualification obtained.
a)  a Post Graduate degree in Law obtained from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission.
12
b)  a Post Graduate diploma in Law obtained from the institute of 
advanced Legal Studies of Sri Lanka Law college.
11
c)  a Post Graduate diploma in Law obtained from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission.
10
d)  Following degrees obtained from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission,

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
313
Serial 
No.
Subject Maximum 
Marks
• degree in Law with First class Pass 06
• degree in Law with Second class (upper division) Pass 05
• degree in Law with class pass 04
• degree in Law with General Pass 02
e)  First class Pass in the Final year of the Law college Second class 
Pass in the Final year of the Law college
06
04
(Note : if the Final Examination of the Sri Lanka Law college has been 
passed with Honours Pass, the 06 marks mentioned above will be awarded)
02 Additional Experience : 55
Preparation of documents pertaining to the cases and appearing before the 
open Court;
Maximum Marks 
for the cases filed 
(Per case 0.5)
Marks for 
appearing before 
the court (Per case 
0.5)
Supreme court 06 06
court of appeal 05 05
High court 03 04
district court 05 05
t ribunal (aat) 05 06
HRc/ t ribunal 
(L t)
02 03
Note - 
Copies of the relevant decisions or a certified copy of the case report on the 
date of last hearing of the case should be submitted to the interview board in 
proof of the above qualifications.
03 Language Proficiency:
(Marks will be awarded only for the highest qualification)
10
(A) Link Language;
(a)  a  degree obtained from a university recognized by the university Grants 
Commission, with English Language as a main subject.
04
(b) Fluency in English language demonstrated at the Moot court competitions 
at the recognized in international or national levels,
03
individual
(i) First Place/Merit - 03
(ii) Second Place - 02
(iii) third Place/other Skills - 01
Group
(i) First Place/ Merit - 03
(ii) Second Place - 02
(iii) third Place/other skills - 01

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
314
Serial 
No.
Subject Maximum 
Marks
(c) diploma in English Language obtained from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission or a diploma in English Language 
of SLQF Level 3 or higher level obtained from any other institution or 
a diploma in English language obtained from a government training 
institute/ institution affiliated to a government training institute after 
completing a course of 1500 study hours.
03
(d) a  distinction Pass for English Language in the G.c.E. (advanced Level) 
Examination or Edexcel or cambridge advanced Level Examination or 
iEL tS - an overall score of 6.5 or above, toEFL - ibt  79 or above, 
toEFL-cbt  213 or above or toEFL-Pbt  550 or above, within 02 years 
preceding the closing date of applications.
(e) An advanced Certificate in English Language obtained from a university 
recognized by the University Grants Commission or a certificate in 
English Language at SLQF Level 2 obtained from any other institution.
02
01
(B) Other Official Language (Tamil/Sinhala) ;
(a) diploma course obtained from a government registered institution 
or university recognized by the university Grants commission.
     (duration not less than 06 Months/ 720 Hours)
06
(b) Certificate Course obtained from a government registered 
institution  
(duration not less than 03 Months/ 360 Hours)
05
(c) Should have passed Sinhala and t amil as a First Language in 
G.c.E. (o/L) Exam (Local or London) (Marks are given only for 
the lowest grade in both language)
distinction 05
Very good pass 04
credit pass 03
ordinary pass 02
(d) Should have passed t amil or Sinhala as a Second Language in 
G.c.E. (o/L) Exam (Local or London)
distinction 02
Pass 01
05 Merit shown in the interview: 20
i.    attitudes on the profession and its ethics. 04
ii.   Knowledge in current trends of the field of Law (With special 
emphasis on administrative Law, Human Rights Law, disciplinary 
Rules, Law of Evidence).
10
iii.  Fluency and the ability to express views logically. 06
t otal Marks 100

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
315
08. Identity of the Candidates:
those who have completed the application in every respect will only be invited for the interview for evaluating 
eligibility.
Originals of all certificates and copies of the certificates duly certified by the candidate himself should be furnished at 
the interview for evaluating eligibility.
the following identity cards are accepted to establish the identity of the candidate at the interview for evaluating 
eligibility.
 i. Valid National identity card issued by the commissioner General of the department of Registration of Persons.
 ii. Valid passport.
09. method of Application :
 i. applications should be sent by registered post to reach the address "Secretary, Public Service commission, 
1200/9, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla" on or before 14.03.2025 applications received after the closing 
date will be rejected.
 ii.  a  specimen of the application to be preferred is appended at the end of this notice.
  
  Applications should be prepared in A4 size papers indicating the items No. 01 to 04 on the first page and the 
items No. 05 to 07 on the Second Page and items No. 08 to 11 on the third page and perfected in applicant's 
own handwriting.
 iii. the top left corner of the envelope containing the application should be marked as 'application for the 
recruitment to the Post of Legal Officer Grade III'.
 iV . the signature of the applicant should be attested by Principal of a Government School/ Justice of Peace/ 
Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer of the Three Armed Forces 
or a permanent staff officer in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service drawing a consolidated monthly 
salary of Rs. 47,615/- or above.
 V .  candidates who are already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service should forward their applications 
through the respective Heads of departments in which they are presently serving.
 VI. The applications not in confirming with the prescribed specimen application will be rejected. No complaints 
will be entertained over loss or delay of applications.
10.  furnishing false information :
if any information furnished by you in the application is found to be false or erroneous before the recruitment, your 
candidature will be cancelled. in case any such false or erroneous information is detected after the recruitment, you will 
be dismissed from service subject to the procedure related thereto.
11.  The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to fill vacancy.
12. in the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between the Sinhala, t amil and English text of this Gazette Notice, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
13. in the case of any matter not provide for in notice or where a problematic situation arises in the process of recruitment, 
the decisions made by the Public Service Commission thereon will be final.
by order of the Public Service commission,
 Secretary,
 Public Service commission.
Officer of the Public Service Commission,
1200/9, Rajamalwatta Road,
battaramulla,
10th February, 2025.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
316
 (For office Use)
Specimen Application form
PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION  
Recruitment on open basis for the post of Legal Officer (Grade III of the Executive Service Category) - 
2025
indicate the number relevant to the medium you are applying for, in the cage
Sinhala - 2  t amil - 3  English - 4   
01. 1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) : ………………………………………………………
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………
  (eg: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN kuMaRa  GuNa W aRdaNa)
 1.2 Last name followed by the initials : ………………………………………………………
  (in block capitals) ( eg. GuNa W aRdHaNa  H. M. S. k.)
 1.3 Full name (in Sinhala/ t amil) : ……………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 1.4 National identity card No. :
 
02. 2.1 Permanent address (in block capitals) : …………………………………………………
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………
 2.2 Permanent address (in Sinhala/ t amil) : …………………………………………………
  ……………………………………………………………………………………………
03. 3.1 Gender : Male - 0
                Female - 1  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of birth :
  y ear :    Month :    date :
 3.3 age as at the closing date (14.03.2025) :
  y ears:    Months:   days:
 
 3.4 t elephone Number : Fixed -
                                    Mobile -
 3.5 E-mail address : ………………………………………………………………
04.  Educational Qualifications:
 Degree or the details of the certificate related to swearing in as an Attorney-at-Law in the Supreme Court:
 i. date of conferment : …………………………………………………………………………
 ii. university or institute : ………………………………………………………………………
 III.  Name of the Degree or Educational Certificate : ……………………………………………
  …………………………………………………………………………………………………
 IV .  Effective date of the Degree Certificate or Educational Certificate : …………………………
 V .  class : …………………………………………………………………………………………
 Vi.  Medium of the degree followed : ……………………………………………………………

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
317
05. Additional Educational Qualifications :
 
Course Institution Qualification/ Effective Date of 
the certificate
06. Experience in the field of Law : …………………………………………………
Number of cases filed in the court No. of appearing before the 
Court
Supreme court
court of appeal
High court
district court
tribunals
Human Rights commission/ tribunal
07. 
 7.1 Language Proficiency
Spoken Writing Reading
Very 
Good
Good Weak Very 
Good
Good Weak Very 
Good
Good Weak
Sinhala
tamil
English
7.2 Details of language courses you have followed (Degree/ Diploma/ Certificate Course) with regard to the Link 
Language and the other official language (Sinhala/ Tamil)
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
08. Have you ever been convicted before a Court of Law ?
 (indicate   in the relevant cage, if yes, give details)
 y es   No
…………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………
09.  candidate's declaration :
 (a) i do solemnly declare that the particulars given by me in the application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to bear the loss incurred by not completing a part hereof and/or incorrectly completing 
any part hereto. Furthermore, I do declare that all parts of this application have been filled up accurately.
 (b) I am aware that if my declaration is found to be false, I am liable to disqualification before selection and to 
dismissal from service if detected after the appointment.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
318
 (c) Furthermore, i do declare that i am bound to abide by the rules and regulations made by the Public Service 
commission pertaining to the holding of the Structured interview.
 (d) i will make no alternations subsequently to any information furnished by me in this application.
 ………………………………… ………………………………………………,
 date candidate's Signature.
10. attestation of candidate's Signature :
 i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………………………… who submits this application is personally known 
to me and he/she has placed his/her signature in my presence on this ……… day of ………………
date : …………………………… ………………………………,
 Signature of attestor.
Name :
designation :
address :
(Should be authenticated by the official seal)
11. Certification of the Head of the Department/ Institution (Only for the Candidates in Public Service/ Provincial 
Public Service)
i hereby certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss, …………………………… who submits this application is presently serving 
in the post of …………………………………… in this Ministry/ department/ institution and i recommend and 
forward his/her application. He/she can be released from the service of this institution if selected.'
date : …………………………………… ……………………………………,
 Signature of the Head of the department/ institution.
Name :
designation :
address :
(Should be authenticated by the official seal)
02-125
_______________________________________
SRI  LANkA   ARmy
Calling of Applications for the Post of Officer Cadets in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Army
1. aPPLicatioNS  are invited for post of Officer Cadets in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Army. Selected candidates 
will be trained at Sri Lanka Military academy.
2. After successful completion of the period of training in Sri Lanka, Officer Cadets will be Commissioned as Officers 
in the Regular Force of the army in the commencing Rank of Second Lieutenant with a bachelor of Science (bsc) 
Degree in military Studies and will be posted to an Arm or Service of the Army, to suit the aptitude of the Officer Cadets 
and the needs of the army.
3. Basic Qualifications.
a. citizenship: Should be a male citizen of Sri Lanka.
b. Marital Status: unmarried.
c. age:   Not less than 18 years and not more than 24 years as at 31
st  March 2025.
d. Height:   Not less than 5ʹ6ʺ feet (167.5 cm).
e. Weight:   Not less than 52 k g (118 pounds).
f. Chest:   Not less than 32ʺ.
g. Eyesight:  both eyes 6/6 (without spectacles and lenses).
h. body Mass index (bMi): between 18.5 kg/m² – 25 kg/m².

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
319
4. Educational Qualifications:
a. Should have passed the GcE (a/L) Examination with three (3) ordinary Passes and obtained 30% marks for 
the common General t est, in one (1) sitting and not more than three (3) attempts with “yES” for university 
admission. 
 and
b. Should have passed eight (8) subjects with five (5) Credit Passes in one sitting with no more than two attempts 
and obtained  credit Passes for English Language, Mathematics, Science and Sinhala/t amil Language in not 
more than three attempts at the GcE (o/L) Examination or the candidates who have obtained an ordinary Pass 
for English at the GCE (O/L) will be considered if they have obtained a Credit Pass for English subject at the  
GCE (A/L) Examination or possess any Diploma/Degree in English Medium NVQ Level -4 or above offered by 
a University/Institute recognized by University Grant Commission. (NVQ certificate should be submitted.);
 or
c. an equivalent result obtained at an internationally Recognized Examination (Pearson Edexcel, GcSE, GcE, and 
cambridge or any other) as recognized by the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as equivalents to the GcE 
(O/L) and the GCE (A/L) Examinations in Sri Lanka (Including compulsory subjects above). 
d. Those who completed the above-mentioned qualifications and who have sat for G.C.E. (A/L) in the year 2024 
may also apply on the pending results.
5. Other Qualifications : Sports, Leadership and other achievements (district, Provincial, National and international 
Levels), and Proficiency in Other Languages (other than Sinhala and English) will be considered as added qualifications.
6. General :
 a. cadets are not allowed to marry during the period of training .
 
 b . Must be in good physical condition and all candidates who are selected for the interview are required to pass 
the medical examination conducted by the Sri Lanka army before enlistment.
7. Conditions of Service :
a . candidates enlisted must compulsorily serve for a period of 10 years in the Sri Lanka a rmy from the date of 
commissioning. all candidates should enter into a contract/monetary bond with the Sri Lanka army.
b . The pay of an Officer Cadet while under training will be Rs. 91,551.80 per month (inclusive of all allowances). 
Officer Cadet will not be entitled to any increment of pay during the period of service as an Officer Cadet.
c . Officer Cadets will be required to undergo training at Sri Lanka Military Academy for a period of 33 
months.
d . the status of officer cadets will be similar to the other Ranks during the training period and they will be 
subject to military law and civil law.
e. Withdrawal of cadetship . 
(1). In the event of an Officer Cadet voluntarily terminating his candidature for a commission during his period 
of training the parents or guardian will be required to refund to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka to the 
account of the Officer Cadet.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
320
(2). if at any time during his course, a cadet is reported by the authorities to be unsuitable for the issue of 
a commission, for reasons of misconduct or negative Security clearance for causes within his control, 
his parents or guardians will be required to refund to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka all 
expenses incurred by the Republic of Sri Lanka to the account of the cadet.
(3). any officer cadet who resigned or was discharged on medical grounds will not be re-enlisted to the 
Army as an Officer Cadet on a subsequent occasion.
8. Pay and Allowances :  On commissioning as Officers in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka army in the commencing 
rank of Second Lieutenant, they will be placed on the following salary scale applicable to the Officers of the Sri Lanka 
army.
Ser. Rank
As per the Management Service Circular 3/2016
Consolidated Pay 
From Year 2020
Salary Increments From 
01.01.2020
Maximum Consolidated 
Pay
1 Second Lieutenant Rs: 41,905.00 - -
2 Lieutenant Rs:  47,615.00 30 x 1335 (per annum) Rs:  87,665.00
3 captain Rs:  55,625.00 24 x 1335 (per annum) Rs:  87,665.00
4 Major Rs:  60,965.00 22 x 1335 (per annum) Rs:  90,335.00
5 Lieutenant colonel Rs:  62,595.00 22 x 1630 (per annum) Rs:  98,455.00
6 colonel Rs: 76,175.00 17 x 2170 (per annum) Rs: 113,065.00
7 brigadier Rs:  80,515.00 15 x 2170 (per annum) Rs: 113,065.00
8 Major General Rs:  88,000.00 12 x 2700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
9 Lieutenant  General Rs:  93,400.00 10 x 2700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
10 General Rs: 101,500.00 7 x 2700  (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
9. Other Allowances :  the following allowances are payable monthly:
 
a. Qualification pay.
b. Free feeding or ration allowance.
c. Disturbance allowances when ordered to live in (For married Officers only).
d. uniform upkeep allowances.
10. the following facilities are available/allowances payable:
a. Free accommodation when ordered to live in.
b. a  rent ceiling when living in rented quarters. 
c. Free uniforms.
d. Batmen allowance to married Officers or batmen service to unmarried Officers.
e. one return duty railway warrant a month from the place of work to the home station to those who are 
ordered to “live in”.
11. Officers will be governed by the following regulations concerning their pay, prospects and conditions of service.
a. the army Pay code. 
b.  Officer Service Regulations (Regular Force) 1992, published in the Gazette extraordinary of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 780/7 dated 17th august 1993 and as amended from 
time to time.
c. the army Pensions and Gratuities code, 1981, published in the Gazette extraordinary of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 562/11 dated 15th June 1989 and as amended from time 
to time.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
321
12. Parents or guardians will be required to sign a declaration as shown in paragraph 13 below, which should be forwarded 
with the application. Parents or guardians of selected candidates will be required to enter into a bond substantially in the 
form of declaration, with the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before the appointment of these candidates.  
Except in special cases, a cadet officer whose father is not alive his guardianship is vested in his mother or the guardian.
13. declaration to be signed by the parents or guardians of the candidates:
a. I am the parent/guardian of ………………………  who is a candidate for the Post of Officer Cadet in the 
Sri Lanka army.
b.  i hereby undertake to be responsible, in the event of the above-named candidate being selected to attend 
a course of training in Sri Lanka or in overseas for the following:
(1). all private expenses which the candidate may incur during the period of his  
training.
(2). t o refund to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred on his account 
by the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above-named candidate 
voluntarily terminating his candidature for a commission during the period of his training.
(3).  t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred on his account by the Republic of 
Sri Lanka if, at any time during his period of training, the above-named candidate is reported by the 
authorities to be unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or causes within his control) for the issue of 
a commission.
* Strike out inappropriate words.
date ……………………………………… …………………………,
 Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) …………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
date ……………………………………… ………………………………,
  Signature of Witness.
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) ………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
14. Language Requirements. Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or that may 
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and in 
particular for implementing the provisions of the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
15. Proof of identity . candidates will be required to produce proof of their identity. identity  
cards issued by the department of Registration of Persons or Postmaster General and driving licenses issued by the 
Commissioner of Motor Traffic will be accepted for this purpose.
16. applications from candidates in government service should be forwarded through the Head of the d epartment 
concerned and should bear a certificate to the effect that the candidates can be released if selected.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
322
17. Applications : Applications should be submitted in the candidate's handwriting in terms of the forms specified below 
and should be forwarded to the Directorate of Personnel Administration. Sri Lanka  army  Headquarters, defence 
Headquarters complex, akuregoda Road, battaramulla, to reach there not later than 12.00 hrs on 31.03.2025 by the 
registered post. the phrase “Application for the Post of Officer Cadet (Degree Intake) in Regular Force of the Sri 
Lanka Army” should be marked in the top left upper corner of the envelope enclosing the application. applications 
received at Army Headquarters after the closing date or those not conforming to the requirements of this notification 
will be rejected. Printed applications will not be issued from the Headquarters and further information is available on 
the website www.army.lk.
18.  applications should be accompanied by photocopies of:
a. Birth certificate.
b. Certificates in support of educational qualifications claimed.
c. School leaving certificate.
d. Certificate issued by Grama Niladhari.
e. Police clearance certificate.
f. Certificates in support of sports/ co-curricular activities.
g. At least two recent character certificates from responsible persons (who can issue a character certificate) who 
are personally acquainted with the candidate, one of whom should be the Principal of the last school attended 
by the candidate.
h. Other relevant certificates.
i.  Further, a photocopy of National Identity Card and a recently obtained photograph (Passport size 2ʹʹx2 1/2ʹʹ) 
attested by the Grama  Niladhari or an attorney at-law, should be sent.
1 9.   Conducting Interviews  : Preliminary selections will be made from among those candidates who fulfill the above 
requirements. candidates selected will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the commander of the army. 
The final selections will be made after an interview of elected candidates, by a Selection Board appointed by the Ministry of 
defence. 
20. candidates selected for interviews will be informed of the place, time and date of the interviews to personal emails of 
the candidates. the interviews will take place in colombo. No traveling or other expenses will be paid in this regard by the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
21. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him a testimonial. any form of canvassing or 
attempting to influence the selection of a candidate will disqualify such candidate.
22. Candidates who are not qualified for enlistment will not be notified. Inquiries about such disqualification will not be 
entertained. 
Note: this Gazette Notification is published in Sinhala, English and Tamil in the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala, English and tamil texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
       b k G M L RodRiGo RSP ctf-ndu psc iG,
Lieutenant General,
commander of the army. 
Sri Lanka  army  Headquarters,
defence Headquarters complex,
akuregoda Road,
battaramulla,
03rd February 2025.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
323
1 - 4
a.
b.
c.
d.
f. / /
g. cm inch kg
h.
i.
j.
k.
l.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
FoR oFFiciaL uSE
aPPLicatioN FoR OFFICER c adEt VacaNciES
(DEGREE INTAKE) OF
SRi  L aNka aRMy REGuLaR F oRcE
e. Contact Nos.
Mob ile Email address
Home
PERSONAL DETAILS
Name with initials
Name you prefer to be called 
Full Name
date of birth y m D
height chest Weight Sex
age as at 3 1 March 2025
N.I.C/Driving Licence/Passport No.
Post al address
marital Status Province district
bASIC EDuCATIONAL QuALIfICATIONS
GCE (O/L) or Equivalent Exam
Ed & Letter GN d ivision & No.
20…….. 20…….. 20……..
Index No.
Name o f the School(s)
Ser. Subjects
Attempt First Second third 
year
Sinhala/tamil
English
Mathematics 
2" x 2.5" size 
Colour 
Science
2" x 2.5" size 
Colour
photograph

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
324
2 - 4
m. GCE (A/L) or Equivalent Exam
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
n.
1
2
3
4
5
o.
1
2
3
4
p.
1
2
3
4
q.
1
2
3
4
Name of the School(s)
Ser. Subjects
Attempt First Second third 
year 20…….. 20…….. 20……..
Index No.
co mmon General test
Z - score 
General English
Other Academic Qualifications
Ser. d escription institute duration GradingFrom to
university Entrance ( Yes/No)
Ser. de scription achievement
School Regional National international
Sports Activities
OThER QuALIfICATIONS
Leadership Activities 
Ser. d escription achievement
School Regional National international
Extracurricular Activities  
Ser. d escription achievement
School Regional National international

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
325
3 - 4
r.
s.
t. to
u.
Ser.
v.
Ser.
1
2
3
4
5
w.
x.
Ser.
1
2
3
y.
z.
OThER ImPORTANT  DETAILS
Records of previous service in Armed Services (if any)
armed Service
Svs N o. Ra nk duration
Employer
contact Person & Number
i declare that if the applicant named above is selected, he can be released from the current employment.
Name of authorised Person  
to
Reason for discharge/Resign
Details of Occupation (If any) Svc N o. Position
Have you ever applied for any position in the Tri-Services/ Police or any other Armed Service? (if any)
armed service date Posi tion Present Status Reason for disqualification 
Signature & Stamp
dual citizenship (if any) country From 
family Details:
Mother
Relationship Name with initials occupation Employer
Father
Name and contact Number of NOk
Details of Blood relatives who serve (d) in the Sri Lanka Army
Svs N o. Ra nk Name Relationship Regiment Present Status 
contact No.
N.i.c/driving L icense N o. occu pation
Have you or any of your close relatives ever been convicted or found guilty or have any  pending court cases against at any court of 
Law?  (If any, provide full particulars of each case)
Details of two non-relatives who know your character and qualifications very well
Name (1)
Postal address
contact No.
N.i.c/driving L icense N o. occu pation
Place of Work
Name (2)
Postal address
Place of Work

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
326
4 - 4
aa. / 2 0 2 5
ab.
Ser.
1
2
3
4
5
Document Attached 
Type of Document Attached Not Attached
N. i.  c /driving L icense/Passport (copy)
i d eclare on my honour that the answers i have provided to the questions are correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
date 
Signature 
ac. In case of insufficient space, use this space or separate sheet and provide additional details.
other E ducational Q ualification certificates  (copy)
Gc E (a/L) certificates  (copy)
birth certificate (copy)
GcE (o/L) certificates  (copy)
3 - 4
r.
s.
t. to
u.
Ser.
v.
Ser.
1
2
3
4
5
w.
x.
Ser.
1
2
3
y.
z.
OThER ImPORTANT  DETAILS
Records of previous service in Armed Services (if any) armed Service
Svs N o. Ra nk duration
Employer
contact Person & Number
i declare that if the applicant named above is selected, he can be released from the current employment.
Name of authorised Person  
to
Reason for discharge/Resign
Details of Occupation (If any) Svc N o. Position
Have you ever applied for any position in the Tri-Services/ Police or any other Armed Service? (if any)
armed service date Posi tion Present Status Reason for disqualification 
Signature & Stamp
dual citizenship (if any) country From 
family Details:
Mother
Relationship Name with initials occupation Employer
Father
Name and contact Number of NOk
Details of Blood relatives who serve (d) the Sri Lanka Army
Svs N o. Ra nk Name Relationship Regiment Present Status 
contact No.
N.i.c/driving L icense N o. occu pation
Have you or any of your close relatives ever been convicted or found guilty or have any  pending court cases against at any court of 
Law?  (If any, provide full particulars of each case)
Details of two non-relatives who know your character and qualifications very well
Name (1)
Postal address
contact No.
N.i.c/driving L icense N o. occu pation
Place of Work
Name (2)
Postal address
Place of Work
02-129

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
327
PARLIAmENT   Of  SRI  LANkA  
v acancies
aPPLicatioNS  are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who are physically sound and of excellent moral character for the 
following vacant posts on the Staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament.
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent only by registered post along with 
the copies of certificates of educational and experience to reach the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of 
Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura kotte" on or before 10.03.2025. the post you are applying for should be indicated on 
the top left-hand corner of the envelope (this notice is available on the website: www.parliament.lk).
1. Systems Designer (No. of vacancies - 01)
1.1 Salary Scale:-
according to the Schedule i of the Management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, the monthly 
salary scale specified for this post is Rs.52,955- 5x1,335/8x1,630-72,670/- (The minimum initial gross 
monthly remuneration on this salary scale, inclusive of all allowances will be approximately Rs.129,000/-).
 1.2 Age Limit:-
Should be not less than 22 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date for applications (upper 
age limit will not be applicable for the internal candidates).
 1.3 Educational Qualifications:-
b.Sc degree in computer Science/information communication t echnology (ict)/information t echnology.
 1.4 Experience:-
For external candidates - Not less than five (05) years of post-qualifying experience as a Systems designer.
For internal candidates - Not less than eight (08) years of post-qualifying experience in the information 
Systems and Management Department of the staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament.
 1.5 method of Recruitment:-
on the merit of the written/trade test and an interview.
2. Database Administrator (No. of vacancies - 01)
 2.1 Salary Scale:-
according to the Schedule i of the Management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, the monthly 
salary scale specified for this post is Rs.52,955- 5x1,335/8x1,630-72,670/- (The minimum initial gross 
monthly remuneration on this salary scale, inclusive of all allowances will be approximately Rs.129,000/-).
 2.2 Age Limit:-
  Should be not less than 22 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date for applications (upper 
age limit will not be applicable for the internal candidates).
 2.3 Educational Qualifications:-
  b.Sc degree in computer Science/information communication t echnology (ict)/information t echnology.
 2.4 Experience:-
  For external candidates - Not less than five (05) years of post-qualifying experience as a database 
administrator.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
328
For internal candidates - Not less than eight years (08) of post-qualifying experience in the information 
Systems and Management Department of the staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament.
 2.5 method of Recruitment:-
  on the merit of the written/trade test and an interview.
3. Computer Programmer (No. of vacancies - 01)
 3.1 Salary Scale:-
according to the Schedule i of the Management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, the monthly 
salary scale specified for this post is Rs.43,565- 9x755/6x930-55,940/- (The minimum initial gross monthly 
remuneration on this salary scale, inclusive of all allowances will be approximately Rs.104,000/-).
 3.2 Age Limit:-
Should be not less than 22 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date for applications (upper 
age limit will not be applicable for the internal candidates).
 3.3 Educational Qualifications:-
  A degree in Computer Science/Information Technology/Information Systems offered by a University 
recognized by the university Grants commission (uGc)
And
Having passed the G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) subjects including credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil, Mathematics and English not more than in two  sittings.
 3.4 Experience:-
Not less than three (03) years of post-qualifying experience as a computer programmer in web based 
application development in PHP, Java, JavaScript and RdbMS in MSSQL, MySQL.
Expertise in HTML, CSS, jQuery and Responsive Frameworks such as Bootstrap, combined with strong 
problem-solving skills and the ability to work independently with minimal supervision, is preferred.
Experience in PHP Frameworks would be an added qualification.
 3.5 method of Recruitment:-
 on the merit of the written/trade test and an interview.
4. Assistant Computer Programmer (No. of vacancies - 01)
 4.1 Salary Scale:-
according to the Schedule i of the Management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016,   the   
monthly   salary   scale   specified   for   this   post   is  Rs.34,605- 9x660/3x755-42,810/- (The minimum 
initial gross monthly remuneration on this salary scale, inclusive of all allowances will be approximately 
Rs.90,000/-).
 4.2 Age Limit:-
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date for applications.
 4.3 Educational Qualifications:-
  Having passed the G.C.E. (A/L) (Old Syllabus) examination in four (04) subjects  or G.C.E. (A/L) (New  
  syllabus) examination in three (03) subjects in one sitting

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
329
And
Having passed the G.C.E. (O/L) examination in six (06) subjects including credit passes for Sinhala/
t amil, Mathematics and English/English Literature not more than in two sittings.
 4.4 Vocational Qualifications:-
  A diploma certificate in Information and Communications Technology (ICT) issued by an institute recognized 
by the government.
 4.5 Experience:-
Experience in PHP and MySQL is preferred.
 4.6 method of Recruitment:-
  on the merit of the written/trade test and an interview.
5. Evaluation Procedure:-
 (a) Written/ trade t est
  The written/trade test evaluates the applicants' knowledge and understanding of the job responsibilities. 
the maximum achievable score for this assessment is hundred (100).
 (b) interview
  The qualifications of the applicants are evaluated by an interview board appointed by the Secretary-
General of Parliament.
  applicants who score more than forty (40) marks in the written/trade test examination are called for 
the interview. in the interview, marks are awarded based on the  following criteria, with a maximum 
achievable score of hundred (100):-
Serial No. Criteria
1 Additional Educational and Professional Qualifications
2 Subject Knowledge
3 Work Experience
4 Personality and Skills demonstrated during the interview
6. Terms and Conditions of Service:-
(i) these posts are permanent. However, pension entitlement pertaining to these posts will be determined 
according to policy decisions taken by the Government in future.
Appointments will be made initially subject to a three-year (03) probation period. If an internal candidate 
or a person who has been confirmed in a permanent post in the Public/Provincial Public service is selected, 
he/she will be appointed subject to an acting period of one year.
(ii) Selected candidates will be subject to the Financial and Departmental Regulations applicable to the staff 
of the Secretary-General of Parliament.
(iii) Selected candidates should contribute to the Widows’/Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension Fund from his/
her salary with a percentage specified by the Government.
(iv) Selected candidates should be subject to a medical examination.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
330
(v) a  Security clearance Report with respect to the selected candidates will be obtained prior to his/her 
appointment.
 7. Applicants should attach copies of the following certificates to their applications (Not originals). Originals of the 
certificates should be produced when called upon to do so:-
  (a) Birth Certificate
  (b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications 
  (c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications 
  (d) Certificates of Experience
 8. applicants serving in the Public/Provincial Public Service/Public cooperation/Statutory boards should send their 
applications through relevant Heads of departments/institutions.
 9. Canvassing in any form will be considered a disqualification.
 10. any information in the application found to be incorrect, if disclosed before selection will render the applicant liable 
for disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered after appointment.
 11. Applications received after the closing date or sent without copies of the above mentioned certificates or not sent 
through Heads of departments/institutions (if currently serving in the Public/Provincial Public Service/Public 
cooperation/Statutory boards) or applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen application form will 
be rejected.
 Kushani Rohanadeera, 
 Secretary-General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka, 
Sri Jayewardenepura kotte,
18th February, 2025.
PARLIAmENT Of  SRI LANkA
Specimen Application form
Post of ………………………………….……………………………..
01. (a) Name with initials (in English): ............................................................................
  ……………………………………………………………………………………
 (b) Names denoted by initials (in English): ................................................................
  ……………………………………………………………………………………
 (c) Full Name (in block capitals): ..............................................................................
……………………………………………………………………………………
................................................................................................................................
02. National identity card Number:
03. (a) Private address: ....................................................................................................
  ................................................................................................................................
  ................................................................................................................................
telephone No.:
Whatsapp No.:

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
331
(b) Official Address: …………………………………………………………............
 ……………………………………………………………………………………
 ………………………………………………………………………………….... 
 t elephone No.:
(c) Please indicate the address to which the admission should be posted. 
  Private 
  
  Office
04. (a) Date of Birth: ……………………………………….. (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
(b) age as at closing date for applications: y ears................ Months.................. days................
05. civil Status: ………………………. 
06. Gender: …………………………….
07. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka: ( y es / No )
08. Educational Qualifications: (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
G.c.E. (a/L)
Subject Pass Year
G.c.E. (o/L)
Subject Pass Year
09. Professional Qualifications: (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
Course Institution Effective Date

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
332
10. Experience: (Copies of the certificates should be attached)
Institute Designation Duration
11. d etails of Present Employment:- 
(a) Name and a ddress of the i nstitution: .....................................................................
(b) d ate of First a ppointment: ......................................................................................
(c) Present Post: .............................................................................................................
(d) Monthly basic Salary: .............................................................................................
(e) a llowances: .............................................................................................................
(f) Gross Salary: ............................................................................................................
12. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a Court of Law? ( Yes / No ) If yes, give details.
 ………………………………………………………………………………………….......
13. Have you served under the Government before? ( Yes / No )
 if yes, give details. ...............................................................................................................
 i do hereby certify that all the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment.
date: ............................ ……….....................................................,
Signature of the applicant.
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Public  
Cooperation/Statutory Boards)
Secretary-General of Parliament,
i recommend and forward the application of Mr. / Mrs. / Miss   .................................................. holding the post of ...........
............................................ in this Institution. I certify that he / she has been / has not been confirmed in this post and his / 
her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he / she has not been subject to any disciplinary action or there is no intention 
to make such inquiry. He / she can be released from the service if selected for this post. (Please strike through the irrelevant 
words.)
date: ................................... ...................................................................
 Signature of Head of department/institution 
 (Official Stamp)
02-172

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
333
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
mINISTR y Of PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION  PROvINCIAL  COuNCILS  AND LOCAL  
GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I and Grade II of Management Service  
Officers’ Service  - 2025
1.0 EFFiciENcy  Bar Examination for officers in Grade I and Grade II of Management Service Officers’   Service - 2025 
(paragraph 08 of the service minute) shall be held at the district level in april 2025 by the director General of the 
Sri Lanka institute of development administration, under the supervision of the Ministry of Public administration, 
Provincial councils and Local Government.
2.0 this examination shall be held as per the interim provision 15 in Para. 08 of the Minute of the Management Service 
Officers’ Service published in the Gazette extra Ordinary No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013 in accordance with the 
provisions in annex 05 and 06. 
3.0 The Efficiency Bar Examinations, which are due to be held in respect of each Grade of the above - mentioned service, 
shall be as follows:
Serial 
number Name of the examination Code
01. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Management Service 
Officers’   Service - 2025 mSO - I
02. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Management Service 
Officers’   Service - 2025 mSO - II
4.0 the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of the Sri Lanka institute of 
Development Administration with regard to this examination. Candidates shall be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by the disciplinary authority for violation of these rules and regulations. it is expected that the basic information such 
as name, national identity card number, email address, and telephone number will be entered correctly when applying. 
accordingly, it should be noted that applicants should bear the responsibility for not receiving an admission, not being 
able to appear for the examination or not being issued the examination results due to entering incorrect information.
5.0 applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk , the official website of Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration. a user account should be created through “apply for Examinations” that 
appears on the top of the Home Page of the website or directly through the link https://examinationportal.slida.lk/ and 
then the relevant application for the examination can be completed.
 The online application should strictly be filled out in English. 
 Filling the applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 21.02.2025 up to 12.00 midnight on 
14.03.2025.
6.0 i. Examination Fees - The officers applying for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees. 
However, Rs.250/- should be paid for each subject at subsequent applying of the examination. 
 ii. the examination fees should be credited to the following account.
  Name of the account - Ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils and Local Government 
  account Number - 310100119027430
  bank - Peoples’ bank, bambalapitiya branch 
 iii. the number of the receipt provided relevant to the said payment should be included in the application and a 
photograph of the receipt should be uploaded in the relevant place of the application. 

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
334
iv. Further, the applicant's name and national identity card number should be mentioned in the place of the Payer 
and the code of the relevant examination should be mentioned in the place of the reason for depositing the money 
when filling the bank slip related to the payment made by you. The officers who make online payment should also 
indicate the above particulars in the receipt they receive. 
(code names should be indicated as mentioned in Section 03)
7.0   When filling out the application online, it is compulsory for the applicant to have an active e-mail address and mobile 
phone number (one e-mail address can be used strictly for one user Name when applying). once the application is 
submitted online, a message of acknowledgment of receipt will be sent to the email address and mobile number.  
 After the deadline for sending applications, the admission card will be issued and you will be notified on the same 
through SMS to the mobile number you have provided. then the admission card should be downloaded by login into 
your user account. 
 it is the responsibility of the applicant to keep the mobile number and e-mail address, which are the ways of contacting 
the application, indicated in the application active until the end of the examination process. it should be noted that 
applicants are also responsible for any inconvenience caused by changing their mobile phone number and email address.
8.0  if any technical issue arises regarding the process of submitting the application online, please contact the technical 
division of the Sri Lanka institute of development administration at 011-5980263/ 011-5980264 and 011-5980236 
for inquiries, and for all other inquiries, please contact the Recruitment and Examinations branch of the combined 
Services division of the Ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils and Local Government at 011-2681237 
(Extension - 606/603/600) from 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. on weekdays from 21.02.2025 to 14.03.2025.
9.0  If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number 011- 5980263 or 011-
5980264. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.
10.0 identity of candidates - candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to 
the supervisor.
 i. the National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving License
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion 
of the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration. 
11.0  the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English media. candidates should sit for the examination in the 
language medium in which they sat the examination for recruitment to the relevant service or in one of the official 
languages. The officers who joined the service without sitting for a competitive examination can also sit for this 
examination in the language medium of their education or in one of the official languages. Candidates shall not be 
allowed to change the language medium of examination mentioned in the application form.   
12.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. 
13.0 the results of the examination will be issued by the director General of the Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration to the director General of combined Services who will then publish them on the web site of the 
Ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils and Local Government. Recommendations on promotions of 
officers should be made by the Heads of Departments based on those results.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
335
14.0 Scheme of examination: Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows.
14.1 Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Management Service Officers’   Service 
14.1.1  When applying for this examination, applicants should pay attention to Section 3 under interim 
provisions No: 15 of the Minute of Management Service Officers’ Service published in the Gazette 
extra Ordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No: 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013 and the 
concessions notified by the Director General of Combined Services on decisions of the Public Service 
commission. 
14.1.2 Qualifications – Officers who have been promoted to the posts in Grade I of Management Service 
Officers’ Service are eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Note - this examination should be passed within 05 years from the date of promotion to Grade i.
14.1.3 Applicants should sit for a written examination that will consist of the following subjects.
Subject Subject 
No. Duration Marks Cut off 
marks
Establishment Procedure and Procedural Rules 01 01 ½  hours 100 40
Public finance management 02 01 ½ hours 100 40
current trends 03 01 hours 100 40
14.1.4 Establishment Procedure and Procedural Rules 
 This paper shall consist of two parts and one shall consist of the questions to test the proficiency of 
the experience gained on the knowledge of fundamentals of office systems, their importance, written 
communication, documentation and compiling formats and office activities. The other part shall consist 
of questions to test the knowledge on practical knowledge on matters contained in V olume i and ii of the 
Establishments code and V olume i of the Procedural Rules of Public Service commission.
Part i  -  this is a question paper consisting of multiple choice questions. duration is 30 minutes. (25 
Marks) 
Part ii - this is a question paper consisting of semistructured essay type questions. three questions out 
of four shall be answered. duration is 60 minutes.
   (75 marks)
14.1.5  Public finance management 
It is expected to test the Candidates’ knowledge on the subjects in government departments, offices and 
ministries such as Financial control, custody of public money, revenue and payment, budget estimates, 
supply and services (basic knowledge on board of survey and store keeping, financial regulations and 
auditing and basic banking practice)  
Part i - this is a question paper consisting of multiple choice questions. duration is 30 minutes. 
(25 Marks) 
Part ii  - this is a question paper consisting of semi structured essay type questions. three 
questions out of four shall be answered. duration is 60 minutes. 
 (75 marks)

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
336
14.1.6  current trends 
 this paper shall consist of a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge on current, local and 
international events and a part designed to test the candidates’ knowledge on new trends on office 
management, service delivery of public sector and good governance. this question paper shall consist of 
multiple-choice questions and short answer type questions. (all the questions shall be answered)
14.2  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Management Service Officers’   Service
14.2.1 When applying for this examination, applicants should pay attention to Section 2 under interim provisions 
No: 15 of the Minute of Management Service Officers’ Service published in the Gazette extra Ordinary 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No: 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013 and the concessions 
notified by the Director General of Combined Services on decisions of the Public Service Commission. 
14.2.2 Qualifications: Officers who have been promoted to posts in Grade II of Management Service Officers’ 
Service are eligible to appear for this examination. 
 Note - this examination should be passed within three years from the date of promotion to Grade ii.
14.2.3 Applicants should sit for a written examination that will consist of the following subjects.
Subject Subject No. Duration Marks Cut off marks
Office systems and Procedure 04 02 Hrs 100 40
accounting Systems adopted in the  
Government offices 05 02 Hrs 100 40
14.2.4 Office Systems and Procedure 
This paper is intended to test the candidate's knowledge of office systems adopted in government offices 
and his /her ability of practical application of the knowledge. this paper consists of two parts.
Part i   - a  paper of multiple-choice questions, duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part ii  - a  paper of semi-structured essay type questions, 03 out of 04 questions should be answered, 
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.  
 14.2.5 Accounting Systems adopted in government offices
Candidate's knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted in government offices, books and records 
controlling accounts and orders and instructions of the treasury issued in relation to that and his /her 
ability of practical application of the knowledge will be tested. this paper consists of two parts. 
Part i -  a  paper of multiple-choice questions, duration is 30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part ii  -  a  paper of semi-structured essay type questions, 03 out of 04 questions should   be answered, 
duration is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
15.0   Decision of the Director General of Combined Services shall be the final decision with regard to the provisions not 
mentioned in this notification.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
337
16.0   In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
 N.U. Nishan Mendis, 
 director General of combined Services,
 Ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils and  
 Local Government. 
 
Ministry of Public administration, Provincial councils,
and Local Government,  
independence Square,
colombo 07,
06th of February 2025.
02-108
________________________________________
mINISTR y Of hEALTh AND  mASS  mEDIA
Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical  
Services – 2025 
it’s hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for Ayurvedic Medical Services (For Ayurvedic Medical 
Officers) will be held in Colombo by the Department of Ayurveda.
1.  candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of ayurveda.
2.  The application for this examination should be in the form of the specimen appendix to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/herself. Application should be sent by those who are qualified 
according to the service minute of the Sri Lanka ayurvedic Medical Service by the registered post through the 
respective heads of institution to reach the Registrar, Examination division, department of ayurveda, Navinna, 
Maharagama. on or before 07.03.2025 Efficiency Bar Examination for "Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service 
- 2025" should be indicated at the top left-hand corner of the envelope containing the application. applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected.
3. The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time not needed to pay examination fee. However, 
sum of Rs. 230/- should be paid for the whole examination and sum of Rs.57.50 for each subject should be 
paid by officers for subsequent sittings. The payments should be debited to Ayurveda Commissioner General‘s 
account number 7041294 at bank of Ceylon maharagama branch and the receipt should be attached with the 
application form. the fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
 “t wo  self-addressed  stamped  envelopes  of  “9x4”  inches    (Rs.110)  should  be  sent  along  with the 
application form.”
4.    Identity of the Candidates -
candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be submitted to 
the supervisor.
 i. The National Identity Card issued by Commissioner General of Registration of persons;
 ii. A valid passport;
 iii.  a  valid driving license.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
338
5. the commissioner, department of ayurveda will issue the timetable and admission card to all candidates 
whose applications have been accepted. candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in 
advance and submit to the supervisor of the examination hall. candidates without admission card will not be 
permitted to sit for the examination. if a candidate has not received his/her admission card at least seven days 
(07) before the day of examination, He /She should without delay informed  via 011-2745962 or   the registrar, 
Examination division,
department of ayurveda, Navinna, Maharagama about the not –receipt of admission cards along with the 
following information.
 I. Name of the examination;
 II. Full name of the candidate; 
 III. Postal Address;
 IV . Name of the post office, Registration; 
Number and date of the Receipt.
6.   Scheme of Examination. (according to the service minute of the Sri Lanka ayurvedic Medical service)
 I. financial Regulation- one paper based on the following-
(a) Financial Regulation of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka part i (Except chapter x)
 II. Institutional Regulations and Code of Conduct – One paper based on the following
(a) Establishment code and Public Service commission code of Procedure
 III. hospital Administration- One paper based on the following 
 i. General rules and regulations relevant to the hospitals; 
 ii. Cleanliness in hospital;
 iii. Rules and regulations relevant to the patients; 
 iv. Supply proper meals to the patients;
 v. Administrations of drugs manufactures;
 vi. Rules and Regulation regarding the admission of patients; 
 vii. Knowledge of the duties from the Medical Superintendent to the junior staff in the hospitals;
 viii. General administration of Department of Ayurveda;
 ix. General administration Regulations relating to  the maintenance of store accounts, documents, 
books of the Department of Ayurveda;
 x. Manual of procedure of the Department of Ayurveda; 
 xi. understanding of the administration of the hospital.
  Iv . Official languages test
 Candidates should act according to the Ayurveda Service minutes dated 27.10.2020 for the Official 
languages test. 

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
339
 Language Proficiency to be acquired
For Official Language Officers who joined the service in a language   medium that is not an official 
language must acquire the
 required official language
 proficiency during the probationary period. Obtaining a pass qualification in 
G.E.c. (o/L).
Non-official language  According to the Public Administration Circular 01/2014 and the related 
circulars, the relevant level of expertise should be obtained.
 V.  Candidate must obtain at least 40 marks to pass in each subjects. In case of any inconsistency 
between Sinhala, tamil and English languages Sinhala language will prevail.
 Dr. Anil Jasinghe,
 Secretary.
Ministry of Health and Mass Media, 
“Suwasiripaya”, 
No. 385, Rev.baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo – 10,
15.02.2025.
Specimen Application form
Efficiency Bar Examination of Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service - 2025
index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
Sinhala - S t amil - t
01. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) : ……………………………………………………………………
 (in English capital Letters)
02. Name with initials : …………………………………………………………………………………
 (in Sinhala/t amil)
03. Name denoted by initials  : …………………………………………………………………………
 (in English capital letters)
04. Name denoted by initials : …………………………………………………………………………
 (in Sinhala/  tamil letters)
05. National identity card No. :
06. i. Name and Address of the Office/ Department/ Institutution : …………………………………………
   (in English capital Letters)

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'02'21
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.02.2025
340
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  oF   GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNka.
 ii. Provinc of the Office/Department/ Institute : …………………………………………………………
07. i. Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution : ……………………………………………
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
 ii. Telephone No. (official) : ……………………………………………………………………………
08. i.  Post : …………………………………………………………………………………………………
 
 ii. Number and date of the letter of appointment : …………………………………………………………
09.  Have you passed one or more subject from any of the following subjects in previous examinations sittings Financial 
regulation/ Establishment code/ Hospital managament/ oral examination (t amil/Sinhala). if so index No. y ear and 
Month :
Subjects Index Number Year and Month
10. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? …………………………………………………………
 The value of the money paid if not appearing for the exam for the first time (Paste the bank receipt, if have)
   i declare that the above particulars are true that, i am eligible to appear for the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. i agree to abide the rules and regulation of this examination.
 ……………………………,
 Signature of the candidates.
date : …… …………………
Note : The candidate should sign in the precense of the head of his/her Department/ Institution or and officer authtorized 
to sign on behalf of such head of the department.
Attestation of the signature
  I do hereby certify that ………………………………… who forward this application is an officer attached to my office 
know to me personally,, and that he/she placed his or her signature before me on ......................................
 …………………………………,
 Signature and rubber stamp of the attester.
Name of the attester  : …………………………………………………………
designation  : …………………………………………………………
address : …………………………………………………………
date : …………………………………………………………
02-157