

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OF
TERRORIST FINANCING (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 3 OF 2013
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 12th February, 2013]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 15, 2013

<!-- page 2 -->

1Convention on the Suppression of  Terrorist
Financing (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2013
2—PL 006888—4,090 (01/2013)
Short title.
[Certified on 12th February, 2013]
L.D.—O. 30/2012.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CONVENTION ON THE SUPPRESSION OF
TERRORIST FINANCING ACT, NO. 25 OF 2005.
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Convention on the
Suppression of  Terrorist Financing (Amendment) Act,
No. 3 of 2013.
2. Section 3 of the Convention on the Suppression of
Terrorist Financing Act, No. 25 of 2005 (hereinafter referred
to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended as
follows:—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (2
A) thereof and the
substitution therefor of the following:—
“(2A) Any person who unlawfully and willfully
by any direct or indirect means provides or
conspires to provide, material support or resources
to any terrorist, terrorists or a terrorist organization
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.”;
(2) in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for the
words and figures “specified in subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of this section” of the words and
figures “specified in subsection (1), subsection (2)
or subsection (2
A) of this section”; and
(3) in subsection (4) thereof by the substitution for the
words and figures “under subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of this section,”, of the words and
figures “under subsection (1), subsection (2) or
subsection (2
A) of this section,”.
Amendment of
section 3 of Act,
No. 25 of 2005.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Convention on the Suppression of  Terrorist
Financing (Amendment)
3. Section 4 F of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for
the words “order him to pay a such value fine within such
period as may be specified by Court.” of the words “order
him to pay such value as a fine within such period as may be
specified by Court.”.
4. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) thereof by the substitution for
the words and figures “for an offence under subsection (1) or
subsection (2) of section 3, that” of the words and figures
“for an offence under subsection (1), subsection (2) or
subsection (2
A) of section 3, that”.
5. Section 16 A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “person” of the following new
definition:—
“ “terrorist” means any person who—
(a) directly or indirectly and willfully commits
or attempts to commit a terrorist act;
(b) participates as an accomplice in committing
a terrorist act;
(c) organizes, directs or aids or abets the
commission of a terrorist act; or
(d) contributes to the commission of a terrorist
act by a group of persons acting with a
common purpose where the contribution is
made intentionally and with the aim of
furthering the terrorist act or with the
knowledge of the intention of the group to
commit a terrorist act;”;
Amendment of
section 4 F of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 16
A of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Convention on the Suppression of  Terrorist
Financing (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2013
(2) by the repeal of the definition of the expression
“terrorist act” and the substitution therefor of the
following:—
“ “terrorist act” means—
(a) an act which constitutes an offence within
the scope of or within the definition of any
one of the Treaties specified in Schedule I to
this Act;
(b) any other act intended to cause death or
serious bodily injury, to civilians or to any
other person not taking an active part in the
hostilities, in a situation of armed conflict or
otherwise and the purpose of such act, by its
nature or context is to intimidate a
population, or to compel a government or an
international organization, to do or to abstain
from doing any act; or
(c) the use or threat of action—
(i) which is designed to influence the
government or to intimidate the public
or a section of the public; and
(ii) which is made for the purpose of
advancing a political, religious or
ideological purpose,
and such action,
(aa) involves serious violence against a
person;
(bb) involves serious damage to property;
(cc) endangers the life of another person,
other than the person committing the
action;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Convention on the Suppression of  Terrorist
Financing (Amendment)
(dd) creates a serious risk to health or safety
of the public or a section of the public;
or
(ee)  is designed seriously to interfere with
or seriously to disrupt an electronic
system.”.
6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Convention on the Suppression of  Terrorist
Financing (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2013
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .