

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2973
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2968
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"101 – 2018 foieïn¾ ui 07 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'12'07
No. 2,101 –  FRiday ,  dEcEmbER 07, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28th december, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th december, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2965-b 81474- 5,403 (12/2018)
N. B.–   (i) Parts i:iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,100 of 30.11.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2966
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2967
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2968
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Defence
REcRuitmENt oF oPEN baSiS FoR thE PoSt oF 
diREctoR owNEd to thE ExEcutiVE SERVicE 
catEGoRy (tEmPoRaRy) oF thE iNStitutE 
iN NatioNaL SEcuRity oF SRi LaNka which 
comES uNdER thE miNiStRy oF dEFENcE
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who 
fulfill qualifications indicated in this notification to fill  03 
vacancies exist in posts of director owned to the Executive 
service category (t emporary) of the institute of National 
Security Studies of in Sri Lanka which comes under the 
ministry of defence. 
01. Mode of Recruitment.– the applicants who obtained 
the highest marks on results of the aptitude Evaluation 
interview conducted by a panel of aptitude Evaluation 
board which is appointed by the Public Service commission 
(PSc) will be recruited from among applicants who have 
fulfilled required qualifications mentioned in the notification. 
aptitude interview will be held according to the marking 
scheme referred under no. 06 approved by the Public service 
commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
 (i) Educational qualifications :
  Director (Administration)
  having obtained a Post Graduate degree on 
business administration/ human Resources 
management/ management/ accounts conferred 
from a university recognized by the university 
grant commission or an institute awarding 
degrees recognized by the university grant 
commission. (uGc)
  Director (Research)
  having obtained a Post Graduate degree on 
International Relations/Peace and Conflict 
Resolutions Studies/defence Studies/ 
intelligence Services Studies/t errorism/ Social 
Science conferred from a university recognized 
by the university grant commission or an 
institute awarding degrees recognized by the 
university grant commission.
  Director (Communications and Publications)
  having obtained a Post Graduate degree on 
International Relations/Peace and Conflict 
Resolutions Studies/defence Studies/ 
intelligence Services Studies/t errorism/ Social 
Science conferred from a university recognized 
by the university grant commission or an 
institute awarding degrees recognized by the 
university grant commission.
 (ii) experience :
  Director (Administration)
  having minimum experience of 06 years in the 
management level obtained from a field involved 
to administrative matters.
  Director (Research)
  having minimum experience of 06 years in the 
management level obtained from a field involved 
to Research matters.
  Director (Communications and Publications)
  having minimum experience of 06 years in the 
management level obtained from a field involved 
to communications and Publications.
 
 (iii) Physical qualifications.– Every applicant should 
be physically and mentally fit to perform duties 
of the post and to serve in any part of the island
 (iv) Other Qualifications.– Every applicant,
 (a) must be a Sri Lankan citizen.
 (b) must have an excellent character.
 (c) must have fulfilled qualifications for the 
recruitment to the post as at the closing date 
of applications in all aspects.
03. Terms and Conditions of employment :
 (i) this post is temporary. 
 (ii) this appointment is subjected to the procedural 
rules of the Public service commission, 
Establishment code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of 
the Government and to the other departmental 
Regulations.
04. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 30 years of age 
and not more than 50 years of age as at the closing 
date of applications. (the maximum age limit is not 
applicable to public sector officials)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2969
05. Salary scale.– this post is entitled to a monthly salary - basic salary Rs.55, 786/- + cost of Living allowance 
Rs.7800 - Rs.63, 586 (Salaries are paid to you in terms of provisions stipulated in Public administration circular No. 
03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 as specified in schedule II therein.
06. Following marking Scheme is based for interview of evaluating aptitudness :
Subjects of granting marks Marks 
allocating
Maximum 
Marks
01 Additional educational
(Other than basic qualifications and caused to basic qualification)
Doctorate Obtained relevant to the field
Post Graduate Degree obtained relevant to the field (Not less than one year)
Post Graduate Diploma obtained relevant to the field
Degree obtained relevant to the field
Diploma obtained relevant to the field (Not less than one year)
Diploma obtained relevant to the field (Not less than one year and not more than 
06 months)
20 marks
15 marks
Per 12 marks
Per 10 marks
Per 7  marks
Per 5 marks
20
02 Additional Experience
For the experience acquired relevant to the field (It is considered in addition to 06 
years to be considered for basic qualifications)
Per two marks for the experience more than 06 months and not less than one year 
(maximum of only 30 marks will be given)
Per 5 marks 
for one year
30
03 Computer Competency
For a degree Studied in a university recognized by the university Grant 
commission (uGc) as a main subject of information technology (it)
 
For a diploma course on information technology not less than one year or in 
1500 hours in a recognized institution.
For a Certificate course on Information Technology in a Government’s 
recognized institution.
- 06 months/ 720 hours
- 03 months/ 360 hours
15 marks
10 marks
7 marks
5 marks
       20
 
04 Language Proficiency
English Language (15)
Post Graduate degree/ degree Studied in English medium 
(answers should be given in English medium for all examination question 
papers concerned)
For a diploma course on English language in a university recognized by 
University Grant Commission (UGC) or a Government’s recognized Institution. 
(Not less than one year or 1500 hours)
15 marks
10 marks
20

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2970
Subjects of granting marks Marks 
allocating
Maximum 
Marks
For a certificate course on English language in a University recognized by 
University Grant Commission (UGC) or a Government’s recognized Institution.
- 06 months/ 720 hours
- 03 months/ 360 hours
(marks are given only for the highest qualifications)
Second Language (05)
For a certificate course on second language in a university recognized by 
University Grant Commission (UGC) or a Government’s recognized Institution. 
(Not less than one year or 1500 hours)
For a certificate course on second language in a university recognized by 
University Grant Commission (UGC) or a Government’s recognized Institution. 
(Not less than one year or 1500 hours)
- 06 months/ 720 hours
- 03 months/ 360 hours
(marks are given only for the highest qualifications)
07 marks
05 marks
05 marks
04 marks
02 marks
 
05 Competencies Shown at the Interview
	Leadership
	attitudes
	Personality
	communication
2.5
2.5
2.5
2.5
       10
          Total 100
07. Identity of candidates.– only those candidates who have submitted completed applications in all aspects are 
called for the interview of evaluating aptitudeness.
Original copies of all the certificates and copies of duly certified should be submitted at the interviews.
Following identity cards are accepted to ensure his own identity at the interview :
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons  
 (ii) Valid Passport.
08. Forwarding Applications :
 (i) Duly filled applications should be sent under registered post to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Defence, 
No. 15/5, baladaksha mawatha, colombo 03 on or before 07.01.2019. all the applications received after 
the closing date will be rejected. 
 (ii) a specimen application form to be forwarded is attached at the end of this notice. applicants should 
prepare their applications on A4 sheets to contain number 01-05 on the first page and the rest from number 
06-08 on the next page and complete it in their own handwriting.
 (iii) the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application should mention the “application for 
the post of director (temporary) owned to Executive Service category of the institute of National Security 
Studies in Sri Lanka which comes under the ministry of defence.”
 (iv) Signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal in a government school/ Justice of the peace/ 
Commissioner of oaths/ Attorney-at-law/ Public Notary/ Commissioned officer in the Tri Forces or an 
officer who holds a permanent post in the government who earns a monthly salary of Rs.47, 615/-.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2971
 (v) The officers of those who are presently employed in public service or provincial public service should 
submit applications through their heads of department.
 (vi) applications which have not been submitted in conformity to the specimen application form attached 
herewith will be rejected. complaints regarding lost or delayed applications will not be entertained.
09. Furnishing False Particulars.– if any of Particulars furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in such falsehood or error is detected after recruitment, actions will be taken 
to dismiss you from service subject to course of action concerned.
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right either to fill or not to fill vacancies in the post. 
by order of the Public Service commission.
 Secretary,
 ministry of defence.
No. 15/5, baladaksha mawatha,
colombo 03,
21st November, 2018.
                                                                                                                            For official use
RecRuitment of open basis foR the post of DiRectoR owneD to the executive seRvice categoRy 
(tempoRaRy) of the institute in national secuRity of sRi lanka which comes unDeR the ministRy of Defence
01.  1.1  Name with initials :––––––––––––. mr./mrs./miss  :
   (in block letters)
   1.2  Name in Full :––––––––––––.
    (in block letters)
  1.3 Name in Full :––––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala)
02.    2.1  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
        2.2  telephone No :
               Fixed :––––––––––––.   mobile :––––––––––––.
03.   3.1  Ethnicity :                           Sinhala - 1,  tamil - 2,   muslim - 3,  others - 4
        3.2  Sex :    male - 1,  Female - 2
  3.3  marital Status : married unmarried 
       3.4  National identity card No. : 
       
       3.5  date of birth :  year :––––––––––––.   month :––––––––––––.  date :––––––––––––.
       3.6  age as at 21.08.2018:   years :––––––––––––.   months :––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––.
04.1.1. General degree : 
  (i) date on which the degree effective :––––––––––––.   
  (ii) university/ institution :––––––––––––.                 
  (iii) degree :––––––––––––.      

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2972
4.1.2. master of art/ master of Science :
  (i)  date on which the degree effective :––––––––––––.
  (ii) university/ institution :––––––––––––.
  (iv) degree :––––––––––––.
 4.2 Experience :––––––––––––.
05.  whether you have been charged for any criminal offence in a court of Law. if so, give details with the date and case 
Number :––––––––––––.
06. Certificate of the Applicant :
 i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application by me are true and accurate. i am also aware that any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before appointment, I am Liable to be disqualified and if 
found after appointment, i am  liable to be dismissed from service without paying any compensation.
      –––––––––––––,
    Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
07.  Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant :
Applicant’s signature should be attested by a Principal, Justice of the peace Commissioner for oaths, Attorney - at 
– Law, Public Notary, Commissioned officer of the Tri-Forces an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or 
an officer, holds a permanent post in the Government who earns a basic annual Salary over Rs. 571,380. i hereby certify 
that the candidate mr. /mrs. /ms. …............................................ (Name in full) who forwards this application is personally 
known to me and placed his/her signature before me on ……………………… 2018.
   ––––––––––––––––,
   (Signature of the officer, attesting the signature of the Applicant).
date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Officer 
 attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
   (Should be ensured by an official Stamp)
08. If the applicant is in the Government Service, report of the Head of Department :
 
i hereby certify that the candidate mr. /mrs. /ms. ………………………………………………. (Name in full) 
who forwards this application is personally known to me and placed his/her Signature before me on ………………. 2018.   
i further certify that his/her works, attendants and conduct is ………………………….. and it can / cannot be 
released him/her from the Service if Selected for this post.
      
 –––––––––––––––––,
  (Signature of the head of department).
as at :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––––.    
            (Should be ensured by an official stamp) 
12–111
  
  

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2973
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND 
INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitement to the Post Speech  Therapist -2018
1. aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the Sri Lankan
citizens who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned
below to recruit to the Post of Speech therapist in Grade
III to fill 8 vacancies exist in hospitals under the Ministry of
health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine and provincial
councils.
2. Educational qualifications relevant to the post.– Should
have a degree in Speech therapy obtained from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission or a full 
time diploma in speech therapy which  is not less than 2 
years.
3.Other General Quali ications :
(a)  Should be not less than 21 years and not more 
than 35 years of age by 07.01.2019.
(b)  the effective date of the degree should be a date 
prior to the closing date of applications.
(c) Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in 
any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of 
the post.
(d) Should possess a good character.
(e) Should have fulfilled all qualification which are 
required for the recruitment to the post in all  
respects as at the closing date mentioned in this 
notification.
4.
Method of application :
(a) the application should be prepared using a4 size 
papers in accordance with the specimen form of 
application appended to this notification. (from 1 
to 9 of the application should appear on the first 
page of the paper and from 10 to 13 should appear 
on the second page of the paper).
(b)
 t he receipt obtained by paying Rs.500/- to
the credit of the account of " director General
of health Services collection of Exam Fees"                  
No. 7041318 of the bank of ceylon, thaprobane 
branch should be affixed so as not be detached, on 
the place where it is mentioned "Receipt" in the 
application. (Please keep a copy of the receipt).
(c) c andidate's signature should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School / a Justice of
the Peace / 
commissioner for oaths / an attorney 
at Law or an authorized officer of tri forces or an 
officer who holds a gazetted post in the police 
service or a public officer who holds a permanent 
and pensionable post in staff grade in Public 
Service or Provincial public Service and obtains 
a consolidated salary of more than Rs.334,452/= 
per annum.
(d)
 t he words "Recruitment to the post of Speech
therapist - 2018" should be mentioned on the
top left hand corner of the envelope of Size 
9"x4" in which the duly completed application 
is enclosed and it should be sent to reach 
director ( administrative - Establishments), 
ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous 
medicine "Suwasiripaya", 385, Rev. baddegama 
wimalawansa thero mawatha, colombo 10 by 
registered post on before 07.01.2019.
5.Employees in Public or Semi Government institutions
should submit their applications through the respective 
head of department.
6. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged and
applications which will be received after  the closing  date 
will be rejected. the applications which are not complying 
to the above terms and the relevant specimen form appended 
to this notification will be rejected.
7.Method of Recruitment.– From the applicants who have
satisfied qualifications given in the notification, recruitments 
will be  made in the order of merit of the marks obtained at 
the written examination conducted by the Secretary of the 
ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine or 
an institute approved by him after an interview to check 
the physical fitness and eligibility of the candidates. (The 
number of recruits will be determined by the Secretary of 
ministry).

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2974
8.written Examination will be held as follows:
Paper Syllabus duration maximum marks Pass marks
1.intelligence 
test
to test the candidate's ability of understanding the meaning, 
quantification and correlation between the time and space 
through the conclusions and responses of the candidate to the 
problems given in lingual, numerical and figurative forms.
1 hour 100 40%
2.General 
knowledge
to test logical explanations related to the post of Speech 
therapist and general knowledge.
1 hour 100 40%
9. Identity of Candidates.– candidates who have completed the application accurately will only be called for the 
written examination. Following documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination.
(a) National identity card issued by the department for Registration of Persons or valid passport or valid driving 
license.
10.Terms of engagement :
(a) this appointment will be on probation for a period of three years.
(b) Officers should obtain the relevant level of language proficiency as per the Public Administration Circular 
No. 01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto.
(c) First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03 yeras.
(d) this appointment will be subject to procedural rules of Public Service commission, Financial Regulations 
and Provisions of the Establishment code.
11.the number of appointments will be decided based on the number of existing vacancies. accordingly, if the 
ministry of health , Nutrition and indigenous medicine, decides to grant permanent appointments to the post of Speech 
therapist, action will be taken to appoint the candidates to the Grade iii of the said post in terms of the conditions of the 
scheme of recruitment and based on the existing vacancies. this post is entitled to the salary scale of mt -6-2016 Rs. 32,080 
- 445x10- 660x11-730x10-750x10- Rs. 58,590 in terms of Public administration circular No. 03/2016 and the salaries will 
be paid in terms of the provisions of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 circular,
12.Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in the 
application. If the above certificates are proved to be  counterfeit, action will be taken to refer to the Criminal Investigation 
department for legal action. to cancel the appointment and dismiss from the post and to enter his / her name in the black list 
of those who are not permitted to be reemployed in the Public Service after disciplinary action against him / her.
13.Selected applicants  should submit themselves for a medical examination during the first month of the 
appointment to confirm that  the applicant is physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island and if an applicant 
is found to be unfit from the medical Examination he / she will be disqualified to remain in post.
14.All persons selected as above will be subject to all laws and regulations relevant to the public officers, the 
provisions of the Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the ministry of 
health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, Financial Regulations and other regulations and rules and orders that may be 
imposed by the Government from time to time.
15.if any problem arises regarding recruitment to the post of Speech therapist or any matter covered or not covered 
by this gazette notification, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine will 
be final. In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts, Sinhala text will prevail.
 b.G.S. gunathilake,
 Secretary,
 ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine.
ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine.
"Suwasiripaya"
No. 358, Rev. baddegama wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo - 10,
23rd october, 2018.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2975
SPEcimEN FoRm oF aPPLicatioN 
ministRy of health nutRition anD inDigenous meDicine
RecRuitment to the post of speech theRapist - 2018
Read the Gazette notification carefully before filling the application.
01.   (a) Name with initials :––––––––––––––.
    (in English block capitals) Eg. a. b. c. SiLVa
   (b)  Name in Full (in English block Letters) :––––––––––––––.
   (c) Name in Full (in Sinhala / tamil) :––––––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. : 
03. Postal address : in Sinhala / tamil  in English
 ………………………………………  ………………………………………
 ………………………………………  ………………………………………
 ………………………………………  ………………………………………
 ………………………………………  ………………………………………
04. (a) Permanent address : in Sinhala / tamil  in English
    ………………………………………  ………………………………………
    ………………………………………  ………………………………………
    ………………………………………  ………………………………………
    ………………………………………  ………………………………………
 (b) telephone No. : mobile :
      Landline :
 (c) district of Residence : in Sinhala / tamil  :––––––––––––.  in English  :––––––––––––.
 (d) are you a permanent resident in this district : yes / No  :––––––––––––.
 (e) if  "y es" Since when  :––––––––––––.
05. date of birth: date :––––––––––––. month :––––––––––––. y ear  :––––––––––––.
 age as at 07.01.2019 : days :––––––––––––. months :––––––––––––. y ears  :––––––––––––. 
06. Sex : Male  Female  (Mark "√" in the relevant cage)
07. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka : Yes         No                (Mark "√" in the relevant cage)
08. civil Status: married  Single
09. Educational Qualifications :
Degree / Diploma Result Grade Point Average 
(GP A) and effective date of 
the degree / diploma
University / 
Institute
Academic 
Year
Medium of 
the written 
examination

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2976
10.  have you ever been convicted by a court of law?  : y es  No
 (Mark''√'' in the relevant case)
 if yes, give particulars :–––––––––––––.
11. Certificate of the applicant:
(a) i certify that i carefully read and understood the Gazette notification and completed this application subject to all 
the conditions therein, and the particulars furnished by me in the application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge and belief.
(b) i am aware that if this declaration or any particulars contained in the application are found to be false i am liable 
to be dismissed.
Affix the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 500/= to the credit of the Account of "Director General of Health 
Services collection of Exam Fees" No. 7041318 of the bank of ceylon, thaprobane branch  
so as not to be detached.
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
12. attestation of  the applicant's signature :
    i  hereby certify that mr./mrs./ miss …………………………………………………… who is submitting this 
application is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence. on ....................................
  –––––––––––,
  Signature of the attestor.
date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attestor :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.     Official Frank of the Attestor :–––––––––––––.
13. Certification of the Head of Department if the applcant is serving in Public Service / Provincial Public Service :
 (delete irrelevant words).
 i.  i certify that the above applicant  mr. /mrs. /miss……………………………………….. holds the post of ...........
........................................ in this department.
 ii.  i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in the above application are true and he/ She can / cannot be released 
if he/ She will be selected to the post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of department.
date :–––––––––––––.
Name of the head of department :–––––––––––––; 
designation :–––––––––––––;
Address :–––––––––––––.   Official frank of the Head of Department
12-16

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2977
Revision to the Notice
GOvERNmENT ANALyST'S DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment for the Post of Laboratory Assistant, Grade III in the 
Supervisory management Assistant Technical Service Category - 2018
thiS refers to the Notice 11-511 in respect of the open competitive Examination for Recruitment for the Post of Laboratory 
assistant, Grade iii in the Supervisory management assistant technical Service category, published in the Gazette No. 
2,098 dated 16.11.2018.
02. accordingly, this is to inform that Paragraphs 18 and 19.1 of the above notice are hereby revised to appear as 
follows :
Paragraph 18 - Salary scale.– (as per the Public administration circular No. 3/2016 and subsequent revisions 
made in connection thereto,)
this post carries a salary scale of mN-03-2016 - Rs. 31,040 -10x445 -11x660 -10x730 -10x750 - Rs. 57,500.
Paragraph 19 - Conditions of Service :
19.1 this post is permanent. the appointment will be on probation for a period of three (03) years after the 
completion of  training period of 02 years. However, an officer who has already been confirmed in a 
permanent post in the Public Service normally be required to act in the new post only for a period of one 
year. during the training period, the post carries a salary scale of 
 mN-01-2016 - Rs. 27,140 -10x300 - 11x350 - 10x495 -10x660 - Rs. 45,540. 
 (as per the Public administration circular No. 3/2016 and subsequent revisions made in connection thereto).
 a. welianga, 
 Government analyst. 
Government analyst's department, 
No. 31, isuru mawatha, 
Pelawatta, 
battaramulla.
03rd december, 2018.
12–479

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2978
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'12'07
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 07.12.2018
2979
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
thE weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. if a Friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2018
 DECEmbER 07.12.2018 Friday — 23.11.2018 Friday 12 noon
  14.12.2018 Friday –– 30.11.2018 Friday 12 noon
  21.12.2018 Friday –– 07.12.2018 Friday 12 noon
  28.12.2018 Friday –– 14.12.2018 Friday 12 noon
2019
 JANuARy 04.01.2019 Friday — 21.12.2018 Friday 12 noon
  11.01.2019 Friday –– 28.12.2018 Friday 12 noon
  18.01.2019 Friday –– 04.01.2019 Friday 12 noon
  25.01.2019 Friday –– 11.01.2019 Friday 12 noon
 fEbRuARy 01.02.2019 Friday — 18.01.2019 Friday 12 noon
  08.02.2019 Friday –– 25.01.2019 Friday 12 noon
  15.02.2019 Friday –– 01.02.2019 Friday 12 noon
  22.02.2019 Friday –– 08.02.2019 Friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2018.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.