

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE SIHALA
SARANA PIN KETAYA (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 42 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 06th August, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 07, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009
1
[Certified on 06th August, 2009]
L.D.—O. (Inc.) 24/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES  OF  THE
SIHALA  SARANA  PIN KETAYA .
WHEREAS a Trust called and known as the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya  has heretofore been established by the Trust
Deed bearing Number 765 dated 8 June, 2004 attested by
V . P. Tillakaratna, Notary Public of Colombo for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all the
objects and matters connected with the said Trust:
AND WHEREAS the affairs and objects of the said Trust
have heretofore been successfully managed and carried out
by the said Board of Trustees. And whereas the said Board of
Trustees has applied  to be incorporated and it will be for the
public advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be the cited as the Board of Trustees
of the Sihala Sarana Pin Ketaya  (Incorporation) Act, No. 42
of  2009.
2. From and after the  date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are the members of the
Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana Pin Ketaya  (hereinafter
referred to as the  “Trust”)  or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the  “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of the “Board
of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana Pin Ketaya” and by that
name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation  of
the Board of
Trustees of the
Sihala Sarana Pin
Ketaya.

<!-- page 3 -->

Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009
3. The general objects for which  the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide relief for Buddhist persons who are victims
of terrorism, ethnic violence or any racial
discrimination or aggression ;
(b) to advance the moral,  cultural, economic and social
welfare of Buddhist persons of Sri Lanka ;
(c) to preserve Buddhist cultural heritage of Sri Lanka
and places of archeological importance to
Buddhists;
(d) to promote and facilitate research on Sinhala
language, culture and history ;
(e) to promote the interests of Buddhism ;
(f) to foster Theravada Buddhist Doctrine and way of
life ;
(g) to provide facilities for the study of Buddhism ;
(h) to encourage practical observance of Buddhism ;
(i) to promote unity and co-operation  among   Buddhist
organizations and Buddhists both nationally, and
internationally ;
(j) to provide welfare facilities to  Buddhist persons ;
(k) to provide educational and vocational training
facilities to needy  Buddhist persons ;
(l) to aid and assist Buddhist persons to commence
and operate agricultural, industrial or commercial
ventures;
(m ) to co-operate with other Buddhist associations ,
societies or organizations having objects similar to
those of the Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009
3
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute  all such acts , matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or  desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to —
(a) open, operate and close bank accounts ;
(b) borrow or raise moneys with or without security;
(c) receive or collect grants and donations ;
(d) invest funds not immediately required by the
Corporation  ;
(e) engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants.
5. (1) The affairs of the  Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation made
under section 7 be administered by a Board of Trustees
consisting of not more than seven and not less than five members
to be elected in accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
consist of the Board of Trustees of the Trust holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this  Act.
6. No person shall be qualified to function as a member
of the Board of Trustee if such person—
(a) is not a Buddhist ;
(b) is under the age of thirty years ;
(c) is a person who having been declared a bankrupt or
insolvent by a court ;
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Disqualification
to be a Trustee.

<!-- page 5 -->

Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009
(d) is of unsound mind ; or
(e) has been declared by any competent court to have
committed any offence involving moral turpitude.
7. (1) It  shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any meeting of the Board of Trustees and by the
majority of not less than two- thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law for all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) the admission, withdrawal, expulsion and filling up
of vacancies of the Board of Trustees ;
(b) the duties of the Board of Trustees and of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;
(c) the procedure to be observed in the meetings, of
the Board of Trustees and the quorum for such
meetings ; and
(d) generally for the management of the affairs of the
C O rporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be added to
amended or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as
a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) All Trustees, officers and servants of the Corporation
shall be subject to the rules of the Corporation.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on the
day immediately preceding the date of the Commencement
of this Act shall be deemed to be debts and liabilities of the
Corporation and shall be paid by the Corporation hereby
constituted and all debts due to and contributions payable to
the Trust on that day shall be deemed to be debts due to and
contributions payable to the Corporation and shall be paid
to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009
5
9. (1) There shall be a Fund of the Corporation which
shall consist of —
(a) all moneys lying to the credit of the Trust on the
day immediately preceding the date of
commencement  of this Act ; and
(b) all moneys received by the Corporation by way of
gift, bequest, donation, contributions or grants.
(2) All moneys  lying to the credit of the Fund shall be
utilized to defray the expenses incurred by the Board of
Trustees, in the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the furtherance of its objects.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4)
 In this section, “qualified auditor ” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 7 to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of two
members of the Board of Trustees, who shall sign their names
to the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a
witness.
13. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property,
shall not be distributed among the members of the
Corporation but shall be given or transferred to some other
institution or institutions having objects similar to the objects
of  the Corporation and which is, or are by the rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or profit among its
or their members. Such institution or institutions shall be
determined by the members of the Corporation at or
immediately before the time of dissolution of the Corporation.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Board of Trustees of the Sihala Sarana
Pin Ketaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2009
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMA TION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th
December each year in respect of the year following.