

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2096$6 - 2018 fkdjeïn¾ ui 05 jeks i÷od - 2018'11'05
No. 2096/6  - MONDAY,  NOVEMBER  05,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
 PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No. : CI/1571.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,   CHAPTER 131
THE Memorandum of Understanding entered into between
Finaly Properties (Pvt) Limited, No. 186, Vauxhall Street,
Colombo 02 of the one part and the United Tea, Rubber and
Local Produce Workers Union, No. 513-2/1, Elvitigala
Mawatha, Colombo 05 of the other part on 24th April 2018
is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial
Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments
of Ceylon (Revised Edition 1956)
A. W
IMALAWEERA,
Commissioner General of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
26th October 2018.
MEMORANDUM   OF   UNDERSTANDING   No. 16
OF 2018
1A- G  28852 - 16 (11/2018)
Collective  Agreement
This Collective Agreement made on this 24th day of April
Two Thousand Eighteen, to take effect from the First day of
January Two Thousand Seventeen, between Finlay Properties
(Private) Ltd, a Company having its registered office at No.
186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02, (hereinafter referred to
as “the Employer”) of the one part and the United Tea,
Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union a Trade Union
duly registered under the provisions of the Trade Unions'
Ordinance and having its registered office at No. 513 2/1,
Elvitigala Mawatha, Colombo 05, (hereinafter referred to
as “the Union”) of the other part.
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as
follows :


<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
Title
This agreement shall be known and referred to as the “Finlay
Properties (Private) Ltd, Manual Workers' Collective
Agreement of 2017”.
PART  I
Containing terms and conditions of employment and matters
incidental thereto and connected therewith
1. Persons covered and bound
This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer,
the Union and all employees who are members of
the Union and are employed on monthly contract of
employment.
2. Date of Operation and Duration
This Agreement shall be effective from the First day
of January Two Thousand Seventeen, and shall
thereafter continue to be in force unless it is
determined by either party giving one month's notice
in writing to the other, subject to the proviso that
one party hereto shall not give such notice to the
other party to commence before the First day of
December Two Thousand  Nineteen (2019) and such
notice shall not expire before the Thirty First day of
December Two Thousand Nineteen.
3. This Agreement shall supersede and replace the
provisions of the “Finlay Properties (Private) Ltd.
Manual Workers' Collective Agreement 2014”.
4. General Terms and Conditions of Employment
During the continuance in force of this Agreement,
the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be
deemed to be included in each contract of service
between the Employer and an Employee covered an
bound by this Agreement, whether such contract of
service be written or oral, which was subsisting on
the date hereof or which shall come into being at
any time after date hereof during the continuance in
force of this Agreement.
Provided the said terms and conditions of
employment in respect contract of service of the
Employees, may be amended with the consensus of
the Trade Union and upon such amendments being
agreed upon in writing.
5. Probation
Every employee recruited by the Employer shall
serve a period of probation of not more tha six (6)
months, Provided, however, that if during the  six
(6) months probationary period the Employer is not
satisfied with the progress of such Employee, the
probationary period may be extended for  a further
period of three (3) months and in that event the
Employer shall indicate to the Employee in writing,
the reasons why the probationary period has been
extended. During the period of probation or extended
probation, the Employer shall have the right to
terminate the services of the Employee without
notice. If the Employee's service are not terminated
for unsatisfactory service during the period of
probation or extended probation and the Employee
has not been confirmed by the Employer, the
Employee shall be deemed to be confirmed in its
Employer's service with effect from the day after
the day on which the period of probation, as the case
may be ended.
6.  Attendance
1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by the
Employer an Employee shall present himself for
work on every day (other than a holiday) at the
usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or
job and shall there remain available for work
throughout the normal working hours.
2) If at a store, facotry, mill or job, work is
termprarily not available for an Employee in his
own occupation, he shall be deemed to be ready
and willing to perform work within the capacity
and skill in any other occupation at any other
work site of the Employer where work is
available.
3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an
Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for
which he shall be liable to appropriate
disciplinary action.
7. Hours of work
The normal working hours shall be those hours, which
are customarily worked at a store, factory, mill or
job in the Establishment of the Employer.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
8. Forfeiture of wages
Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of
the Employer an Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working
hours of each working day, he shall forfeit and his
Employer shall be entitled to deduct his wages for
the period from the time at which such failure occurs
until he is again available for work.
9. Overtime
1) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall
work reasonable overtime, which has been
authorized by the Employer. Refusal to work
reasonable overtime in the absence of a
satisfactory explanation, which is acceptable to
the Employer, shall constitute neglect of duty,
for which an Employee shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
2) Overtime work( i. e. work performed in excess
of normal working hours) shall be remunerated
at one and one half (1 1/2) time the normal
hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the
provisions of 16 (a) hereof.
10. Weekly Holidays
1) In respect of each week, an Employee shall be
allowed a holiday on the Sunday in that week as
the weekly holiday. Provided, however, that if
any Employee has not worked for a period of at
least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he
shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall
be entitled to deduct one day's wage in respect
of the weekly holiday for that week computed
in accordance with the provisions of Clause
16(b) hereof.
2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28)
hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer
shall include -
a) every holiday allowed by the Employer to
the Employee as annual holiday.
b) every Public holiday granted by the
Employer in terms of Clause (II) hereof
and
c) every day's absence on any ground
approved by the Employer.
3) The Employer may employ any Employee on a
weekly holiday subject to the following
conditioins :-
I A day within the six days next succeding
such weekly holiday shall be allowed to
that employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided, however, that if
any employee who is employed on a
weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and his
Employer is entitled to deduct one day's
wage in respect of that weekly holiday as
provided in sub-clause (1), then and in
such event that Employee shall forfeit and
his Employer shall be entitled to deduct
one day's wage computed in accordance
with the provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof
in respect of the holiday which shall be
allowed to that Employee within six (6)
days of that weekly holiday.  Provided,
further that in respect of not more than
two (2) such weekly holidays in any one
calender month an Employee may with the
consent of the Employee.
a) instead of allowing an alternate
holiday within six (6) days of
weekly holiday in respect of which
that Employee shall not be liable to
forfeit, and the Employer shall not
be entitled to deduct one day's wage
computed in accordance with the
provisions of Clause 16(b) hereof
in lieu of such alternate holiday.
                                               or
b) in case that Employee is entitled to
an alternate holiday within six (6)
days of the weekly holiday as
aforesaid in respect of which
alternate holiday he shall be liable
to forfeit and the  Employer shall
be entitled to deduct a day's wage as
aforesaid, employ that Employee on
the alternate holiday.
II. That in respect of work done on such
weekly holiday, the employee shall be paid
as remuneration.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
a) one and one half (1 1/2)  times the
normal hourly rate ascertained in
accordance with the provisions of
Clause 16(a) hereof for the number
of hours worked during the first
nine (9) hours (exclusive of one
hour for meal), and
b) at double the normal hourly rate
ascertained in accordance with the
provisoins of Clause 16(a) hereof
for each subsequent hour of work.
The provsions of this Sub-clause shall
not apply to Employees engaged on work
outside the business premises of the
employer for period exceeding twelve
(12) days in respect of the duration of
each such period.
11. Annual Holidays
Annual holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in
accordance with the decisions of the Wages board
for the Tea Export Trade, Engineering Trade and
Motor Transport Trade, as the case may be.
12. Public Holidays
1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an employee
in accordance with the decisions of the Wages
Board for the Tea Export Trade, Engineering
Trade and Motor Transport Trade. Provided
however, that an employee may be employed on
a Public holiday in accordance with the
Decisions of the relevant Wages Board.
2) If any Public holiday to which an Employee is
eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1)
falls on Sunday, a day eigher in the six (6) days
immediately preceding or in the six (6) days
immediately succeeding such Public Holiday
shall be granted to the Employee as a weekly
holiday in accordance with the provisions of
Clause 10 hereof.
3) If any Public holiday to which an Employee is
eligible under the provisions of sub-clause (1)
falls on Saturday, the number of hours
constituting the normal working day (inclusive
of one hour for meal) on the day immediately
proceeding such Public Holiday shall be six and
one half (6 1/2) hours.
13. Casual Leave
In respect of each year of employement during which
any employee has been constinuously in
employment, that employee shall be entitled to take
on account of private business or other reasonable
cause, including ill-health, if that Employee's
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave
(hereinafter referred to as “casual leave”) with
remuneration for the period or an aggregate of period
not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall
allow such casual leave and shall be liable to pay such
remuneration.
Provided, however, that not more than two (2) days'
casual leave shall be taken at any time, save and
except upon the ground of ill-health, provided further
that any worker shall not be entitled to take casual
leave immediately preceding or immediately
following any period of annual holidays. Provided
further that in respect of any Employee's first year
of employement, including any period of probation,
he shall be entitled to casual leave for that year
computed on the basis of  one day for each complete
period of two months' service.
Casual leave will normally be granted on application
without the employee being required to state the
reason for the application. Where an Employer funds
it difficult to grant an application for casual leave,
his difficulty shall be notified to the Employee as
soon as possible after the application is made and in
such case, the Employee may be required to state
the reason for the application in order that the
Employer may decided whether it is reasonable in
the circumstances to grant him casual leave.
4. Sick Leave
An Employee who has joinded the services of the
company on or before the 24th April 2018 shall be
entitled to sick leave not exceeding twenty-one (21)
days . Provided that -
a) His illness is supported by a Medical
Certificate from a Registered Medical
Practioner (unless waived by the Employer)
and
b) The Employee shall not be on probation within
the meaning of Clause 5 thereof. Provided,
however, that an Employee who has been on
probation shall as from the date of

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
confirmaiton in respect of the  remainder of
the first year of employment be entitled to sick
leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is
confirmed after six (6) months' probation and
sick leave not exceeding five (5) days if he is
confirmed after nine (9) months' probation.
An Employee who has joined the services of the
company on or after 24th April 2018 shall be entitled
to sick leave not exceeding seven (7) days provided
that -
a) Any absence on the ground of illness over and
above two consecutive days is supported by a
Medical Certificate from a Registered
Medical Practioner (unless waived by the
Employer) and
b) The Employee shall not be on probation within
the meaning of Clause 5 hereof. Provided,
however, that an Employee who has been on
probation shall as from the date of
confirmation in respect of the remainder of
the first year of employment be entitled to sick
leave not exceeding three (3) days if he is
confirmed after six (6) months' probation and
sick leave not exceeding two (2) days if he is
confirmed after nine (9) months' probation.
15. Monthly consolidated wages
1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 thereof,
the salaries of employees covered and bound
by this Agreement will be revised as follows :
a) The empoyer shall increase the salaries
of employees covered by this agreement,
by 9% with effect from 1st January 2017
on the salaries as at December 2016.
b) Each employee shall thereafter be placed
on the corresponding point of the salary
scale set out in the First Schedule hereto
in the grade applicable to him. If there is
no corresponding point, he shall be placed
on the next highest point on the same
scale.
c) Thereafter salaries will be increased by a
further 5% with effect from 1st January
2018 on the salaries as at December 2017.
d) The salaries will be increased again by a
further 5% with effect from 1st January
2019 on the salaries as at December 2018.
e) In addition, with effect from 1st January
2017 the employee who are so eligible
will receive increments on the following
basis.
Current annual increment rates are Rs.
50/- (Manual worker - tea export/
   engineering unskilled)
75/-(Engineering Skilled)
60/-(Engineering Semi Skilled)
80/-(Drivers 0-5 years of service)
100/-(Drivers 5-10 years of service)
120/-(Drivers over 10 years of service)
2) The scales of the consolidated wages set out
in Schedule I hereto include all statutory
allowances as at the date of this agreement.
3) This Agreement shall not have the effect of
changing the incremental date of an Employee.
4) In lieu of the consolidation of salaries, based
on the Colombo Consumer Price Index
(CCPI), hitherto prevailled, with effect from
Frist day of January 2017 a sum of Rs. 550/-
will be added and the scales of consolidated
wages set out in the First Schedule hereto shall
be revised by addition to and  by consolidation
of the salary at such stage of each grade of
each employee.
In a similar manner a further sum of Rs. 550/-
will be added with effect from Frist day of
January 2018 and again a further sum of
Rs. 800/- will be added with effect from First
day of January 2019 and the scales of
consolidated wages in the First Schedule
hereto shall be revised by addition to and by
consolidation of the salary at such stage of
each grade of each  employee.
The Employer also agrees to make a payment
to each employer covered by this Agreement
by way of Notional arrears, (for the period
January 2017 to January 2018)
However, parties agree that such payments
made by way of notional arrears for the period
January 2017 to January 2018, shall not attract
consequential benefits such as EPF/ETF, etc.
5) If during the continuance in force of this
Agreement, the Government of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
a) Prescribes increase in wages by any
written law and applicable to categories
covered by this Agreement, legally
obliging the Employer to make such
payment, the Employer shall pay such
increase in wages prescribed by such
written law and in terms of such written law.
b) Recommends increases in wages, such
recommendations will not be applicable
to the Employer, irrespective of whether
or not such recommendation are
applicable to categories covered by this
Agreement.
16. Wages for period less than one month
For the purpose of this Agreement, the wages of an
Employee for periods less than one month shall be
computed in the following manner.
a) For one hour - the monthly wage divided
by two hundred (200)
b) For one day - the monthly wage divided by
twenty six (26)
c) For one-half day - a day's wage ascertained as
(either morning above divided by two (2)
or Afternoon)
d) For one week - a day's wage ascertained as
above multiplied by
seven (7)
17. Production Bonus in lieu of NRCLG
The employer, the Union and the employee agree
that a payment guaranteeing a minimum amount of
Rs 27,000/- per annum (Rs. 2,250/- per month) will
be paid to each employee covered and bound by this
agreement provided however, that the quantum of this
payment (subject to the minimum payment of Rs.
27,000 per annum) will be calculated in accordance
with the under-noted formula and subject to the
provisions of the succeeding sub clause of this
paragraph.
The formula :
 Bulk Rupees TB Range Rupees Packet Rupees
Range -MT Range
-MT -MT
Less than 10 20 Less than 40 600.0 Less than 100 500
11-20 30 41-45 637.5 100-150 625
21-30 50 46-5 0 712.5 151-200 875
31-40 70 51-5 5 787.5 201-250 1125
41-50 90 5 6-60 862.5 251-300 1375
51-60 110 6 1-65 937.5 301-350 1625
61-70 130 66-70 1012.5 351-400 1875
71-80 150 71-75 1087.5 401-450 2125
81-90 170 76-80 1162.5 451-500 2375
91-100 190 81-85 1237.5 501-550 2625
(i) The calculation on the above formula will be on
a monthly basis and will be subject to a maximum
payment of Rs. 3,500/- per month
(ii) The above payment shall be payable by the
Employer to an Employee who is eligible to
receive the same by virtue of his service under
the Employer during  a part of the year by reason
of the fact that he is not in the Employer's
service when the payment becomes due in
January of any year of he joined the Employer's
Service during the course of the qualifying year.
(Qualifying period will be from January to
December)
(iii) The above payment shall not be payable to an
Employee in respect of any period for which he
received no wages for whatever reason.
(iv) The formula referred to above is based on the
number of machines available and the capacity
of the factory at present. Acquisition of new
machinery in the future by the employer, parties
agree to amend the formula referred to above.
(v) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any
other payment shall be due or calculated on the
above payment.
18. Provident Fund
1) An Employer and Employee shall contribute to
the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the
Employees' Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
2) Subject to the provisoins of the Employees Trust
Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980, where an Employer
and Employee as at the date hereof were
contributing to a Provident Fund at rates more
favorurable than those prescribed by the
Employees' Provident Fund Act, the more
favourable rates of contribution will continue.
19. Skills Allowance
An allowance of Rs. 400/- per months will be paid
to the employees who are identified for placement
as Electricians and Mechanics, Similary, Machine
Operaters, Forklift Operators and Quality Checkers
will be paid an allownace of Rs. 350/-, Thereafter
when the Employees acquire vocational
qualifications prescribed by the company, subject to
them been placed in the relevant grade and re-
designated, they will become entitled to a further
increase of Rs. 475/-, and Rs. 400/- respectively.
The total amounts of Rs. 875/- (Electricians and
mechanics) and Rs. 750/- (Mechine Operators,
Forklift Operators and Quality Checkers) respectivly
will be consolidated in to the salary of each
employee and the allowance will be discontinued
forthwith.
These employees who have already been entitled for
the aforementioned payments previously will be paid
the difference as indicated below and the following
amount will be consolidated to the salary with effet
from 01st January 2017.
- Electricians and Mechanics : Rs. 300/-
- Machine Operators, Forklift Operators and
Quality Checker Rs. 200/-
The above training will be conducted by the
company or by an Institute recommended by the
Company. The Company agrees to bear the
course fee, if any
20. Terminal Benefits
1) Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided,
pay terminal benefits to Employees in
accordance with the scheme of terminal benefits
set out in this Clause.
2) The scheme shall apply to every Employee in
the servce of an Employer on the First day of
January Two Thousand Seventeen or who joins
the service of an Employer on any day after the
First day of January Two Thousand Seventeen
as long as this Agreement continues in force.
3) As and by way of terminal benefits the Employer
shall pay an Employee a sum equivalent to one
month's wages for each year of service less the
Employer's contribution to the Provident and
Trust Funds but excluding interest thereon.
4) The wage on which the said terminal benefits
under sub-clause (3) hereof shall be payable will
be the last monthly wage receivable by an
employee on which Provident Fund is payable
and shall not include any production bonus
payment made in lieu of NRCLG .
5) For the purpose of calculating terminal benefits
under this Clause, an year of service shall be a
period of not less than six months.
6) The terminal benefits provided for in this Clause
shall be payable to an Employee on the cessation
of his services arising from death or any other
cause whatsoever, Provided, however, that if at
the date of cessation of an employee's services
there is due to this Employer from the Employee
any sum on account of fraud, misappropriation
or any other account and the same cannot be
recovered from the amount to the Employee's
credit in the Provident Fund the same shall be
recovered from the terminal benefits provided
for herein.
7) The provisions of this Clause shall not apply to
Employers who operate a more favourable
scheme of terminal benefits.
8) On the death of an Employee whilst in service,
who is eligible to receive terminal benefits under
this Clause, his Employer shall pay such
terminal benefits in the manner and to the
persons hereinafter set forth-
a) If there is a valid nomination in force for
the purpose of the deceased Employee's
Provident Fund at the date of his death, to
the nominee or nominees of such
Employee in conformity with the form of
nomination where such nominee is
surviving and of full age.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
b) Where there is no valid nomination or in
the event of the nominee or in one or more
of the nominees having pre-deceased, the
Employee or in the event of a nominee
being minor at the time that the payment
of the terminal benefits become due, the
Employer shall make payment only after
the person or persons entitled to the
payment have established their claim in
law and furnished proof thereof.
9) In the event of any written law providing for the
payment of gratuity or terminal benefits, the
more favourable scheme shall apply but not both.
10) No employee shall be entitled to any gratuity or
terminal benefits in addition to the terminal
benefits provided for in this Clause or by any
written law as the case may be.
21. Bouns
1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes
and without prejudice to the Employer's claim
that bonus payments in the past and as provided
in this Agreement are ex-gratia, the Employer
will, subject as hereinafter provided, continue
to pay to each of his Employees who have not
been on unatuhorized absence, a bonus which
will not be less than the sum of money paid to
him as his bonus for the year immediately
preceding the signing of this Agreement. In
exceptional circumstances to be determined by
the management on a case by case basis, an
employee who had been on unauthorized
absence may be considered for payment of
bonus. If in any year the Employer, at his
discretion, reduces the bonus to an amount less
than the sum of money paid to each of his
Employees as bonus for the year immediately
preceding the signing of this Agreement, the
Union may canvass such reduction of bonus with
the Employer. If the Union is not satisfied by
the Employer in this matter, the Union may
pursue this matter with the Federation. If the
dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled
with the Federation, the same shall be referred
to a Committee of three persons (hereinafter
referred to as “a Bonus Committee”) which shall
be constituted in accordance with the provisions
of sub-clause (2) for settlement in the manner
hereinafter set forth.
2) At the written request of the parties to the
dispute, as to the reduction of the bonus, the
Commissioner General of Labour will
constitute a Bonus Committee, which shall
consist of three Senior Accountants nominated
by the Council of the Chartered Accountants of
Sri Lanka.
The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons
with at least 10 years' post qualifications
experience, The slection of the three Chartered
Accountants will be communicated by the
Institute of Chartered Accountants to the
Commissioner General of Labour to the
Employer, the Union and the Federation.
Thereupon the Commissioner General of
Labour will communicate in writing to each
member of the Bonus Committee so
constituted, a Statement of Principles and
Procedure by which the members of the Bonus
Committee shall be bound in settling the dispute
as to the reduction of bonus.
3) Upon receipt of the submissions and the
Statement of the Principles and Procedure from
the Commissioner General of Labour, the Bonus
Committee shall, in accordance with the said
Principles and Procedure, decide whether the
reduction of the bonus by the Employer was
justified and if the reduction was not justified
to what extent, if any, the bonus should be
reduced, The Bonus Committee shall
communicate the decision in writing to the
Federation and the Union and the Commissioner
General of Labour.
If the decision of the Bonus Committee is
unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute and the
Union and/or its members shall not pursue the
matter further by any form of Trade Union action
or otherwise during the continuance in force of
this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus
Committee is divided in its decision, then the
decision of the Commissiner General of Labour
on the matter shall be final and binding on the
parties to the dispute and the Commissioner's
decision shall be communicated in writing by
the Commissioner General of Labour to the
Federation, and the Union/or its members shall

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
not puruse the matter further by any form of
Trade Union action or otherwise during the
continuance in force of this Agreement.
4) The Bonus Committee shall not be entitled nor
be competent to decide that in any year the
Employer should pay his Employees a bonus
exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus in
the year immediately preceding the signing of
this Agreement.
5) The fees payable to the members of each Bonus
Committee shall be borne equally by the parties
to the dispute as reduction of bonus and be
payable on demand by the  Commissioner
General of Labour.
6) The payment of bonus exceeding the sum of
money paid as bonus to Employees in the year
immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement shall be at the sole discretion of the
Employer and shall not be called in question by
the Union or any of its members nor shall the
Employer's failure or refusal to pay such bonus
be the subject of any dispute.
7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1), (2), (3), (4)
(5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to the
existing bonus scheme.
At the request of the Commisioner General of
Labour, the Council of the Institute of Chartred
Accountants of Sri Lanka will nominate three
Chartered Accountants without less than 10
years of post-qualification experience drawn
from a professional Accountancy Firm to serve
on the Bonus Committee.
22. Annual Increments
The annual increments provided in each grade of the
scales of consolidated wage in the First Schedule
hereto shall be automatic unless as a matter of
punishment for general ineffeiciency including
irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary
action on account of serious misconduct, an
increment is suspended, stopped or deferred, in
which case where and increment is –
a) deferred - the loss of increment shall be
continuous throghout the year.
b) stopped - the loss of increment shall only be
for the period of stoppage during the year.
c) suspended - the increment is suspended pending
a decision to defer to stop an increment,  such
decision being dependent upon a consideration
of the factors giving rise to the suspension.
Where on such decision an increment is neither
stopped nor deferred, then the suspension shall
be treated as waived and the  full increment from
the date of suspension thereof shall accrue to
the Employee concerned.
Deferred, stoppage or suspension of an increment
shall only be effected in cases where the Employee
has been notified in writing of a complaint against
such Employee and has been found guilty after due
inquiry of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which,
in the circumstances, does not merit termination of
employment.
23. Warning
If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants
a warning, the same shall be conveyed to the
Employee by letter, a duplicate of which shall be
signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to
sign the duplicate, the warning may be given to the
Employee orally by the Employer in the presence
of two witnesses.
24. Suspension
1) An employee may be suspended without pay by
his Employer–
a) Pending an inquiry to be held by such
Employer on a charge or charges of
miscondut which warrants dismissal.
b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or
damage, the property or disturbance of the
business of the Employer.
c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period
not exceeding seven (7) working days after
due inquiry.
2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause
(1)(a) or within twenty four (24) hours thereof
the Employer shall provide the Employee with
a  written order of suspension specifying the
reasons for such suspensions and thereafter hold

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
an inquiry into the charge or charges in terms
of Clause 25 thereof.
25. Disciplinary Action
Where an Employer proposes to proceed against an
Employee, then –
1) irrespective of whether an Employee has been
suspended under Clause 24 hereof or not, the
Employee shall be furnished with a show-cause,
which shall set out the particluars of the charge
or charges of misconduct alleged against such
employee and such show-cause notice shall give
the Employee not less than three (3) clear
working days in which to give the answer or
explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
2) within three (3) clear working days, after the
date of the show-cause notice, the Employee
shall furnish in writing to the Employer, the
answer or explanation to the charges preferred
against such Employee, Provided, however that
if in the circumstances it is reasonable, the
Employee may ask the Employer for an
extension of time within which to furnish the
written answer or explanation to the show-cause
notice and where such request is made by an
Employee to the Employer, the Employer shall
grant such request  for such further period of
time as is deemed necessary in the
circumstances of the case.
3) if the Employer is satisfied with the written
answer or explanation of the Employee, the
Employee shall, if he is under suspension
forthwith, be reinstated and shall be paid all
wages and entitlements due for the period of
such suspension.
4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written
answer or explanation of the Emloyee to the
show-cause notice and such answer or
explanation is rejected by the Employer, the
Employer shall commence an inquiry within ten
(10) working days from the date of receipt by
him of the written answer or explanation to the
show-casue notice.
5) after holding such inquiry, the Employer shall
notify the Employee of the findings on each of
the charges in the show-cause notice and the
punishment, if any, imposed by the Employer,
Provided that if any Employer fails to make an
order except for reasons beyond the control of
the Employer on the charges in the show-cause
notice within thirty (30) working days from the
conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the
Employer shall not be liable to be punished
thereafter in respect of such charges and no
inference adverse to the Employee in respect
of such charges shall be drawn from such
charges.
6) if the Employee is under suspension and the
Employer after such inquiry makes order that-
a) the Employee shall not be dismissed then
the Employee shall resume employment
forthwith and shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 24(1)(c) hereof
be paid all wages and entitlements due for
the period of suspension irrespective of
such other punishment less than dismissal
that may be imposed by the Employer on
the findings as to the charges in the show-
cause notice.
b) The Employee shall dismissed - The
Employee's dismissal shall take effect
from the date of the Employee's
suspension and accordingly the Employer
shall not be paid for the period of such
suspension.
c) In the view of the serious or involved
nature of the charges in the show-cause
notice against the Employee, the
Employer.
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary
and desirable that the matter be referred to the
Police or other authorities for further
investigations or inquiries and that the matter
be therefore referred to the Police or other
authorities or if in view of the serious or
involved nature of the charges preferred against
the employee, the matter had been previsouly
referred to the Police or other authorities for
investigation or inquiries that the outcome of
such investigation or inquiries be awaited, then
in either such circumstances, the Employee may
remain suspended without pay.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
7) If in any case where an Employee is suspended
as provided for herein, an Employer fails to
make an Order under paragraph (a) to (c) of the
preceding sub-clause for any reason other then
that of the Employee's own seeking within thirty
(30) working days from the date of the
Employee's suspension, the Employee shall be
entitiled to half his normal remunerations for
the period of thirty (30) days from the date of
such suspension and to his full remuneration for
the period of suspension in excess of thiry (30)
days up to the date on which the Employer
makes an order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of
thre preceding sub-clause irrespective of the
outcome of the inquiry
8) In any case where an Employee is suspended, as
provided herein, the Employer shall make an
order under paragraphs (a) to (c) of sub-clause
(6) within ninety (90) days of the date of
suspension of the Employee unless he is
prevented from so doing by reason of the
Employee's own seeking or for reasons beyond
the control of the Employer or it is agreed
between the Federation and any of the Unions
that in the circumstances of the case the period
ninety (90) days be extended for such further
time as may be agreed.
9) An Employer shall not be required to hold an
inquiry as referred to in sub-clause (4) and (5)
hereof where the Employer proposes to warn
the Employee or where the Employer admits to
the charge or charges, Provided, however, that
if the Union disputes the warning or punishment,
imposd on the Employee by the Employer and
requests the holding of an inquiry, the employer.
shall comply with such request and the
provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry
shall then apply subject to the exception that the
fact that the inquiry had not commendced within
(10) working days after receipt of the
Employee's explanation shall not be material or
relevant.
26. Retirement
On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an
Employee shall, ipso facto , retire and cease to be
employed and there shall be no obligation on the
Employer to give the Employee any notice of such
retiremnt. Provided, however, that an employee who
has retired may, at the discretion of the Employer,
be employed after his retirement on a temporary
basis on such terms as may be mutually agreed.
27. Termination of Service
1) Every contract, whether oral or written, for the
hire of any Employee by the Employer, except
for work usually performed by the day or by the
job, or by the journey , shall (subject to
provisoins of Clause 5 hereof  or unless
otherwise expressly stipulated) be deemed and
taken in law to be a contract for hire and service
for the period of one month and to be renewable
from month to month and shall be deemed and
taken in law to be so renewed unless one month's
previous notice is given by either party to the
other of his intention to determine the same
such month has expired.
2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular
job or period, such as casual or temporary work,
he shall be informed thereof at the
commencement of his employment, and his
contract of service will terminate on the
completion of the job or period or on the failure
of the employee to complete the job within a
reasonable time.
28. Union Recognition
The Union shall be comptetent to make
representations on behalf of its members who are
employed in any work place of the Employer in
regard to issues of general application or to the
effect of principle such as matters affecting general
terms and conditions of employment, either in the
work place or the trade as a whole, the following
provisions shall apply :-
1) When the Union is reprsentative of not less than
forty per centum (40%) of the employees, whos
membership subscription is not in arrears, the
Employer will recognize the Union for the
purpose of general claims and matters and
negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any
other Union which is also representative of not
less than forty per centum (40%) of such
Employees, the Employer will be at liberty to
require that general claims and matters be
discussed and negotiated with all the Unions
competent to make general demands by virtue

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
of the requisite membership and not separately
with each such Union.
2) When the Employer carries on more than one
type of business or has more than one work place
and the claim or matter is restricted to one type
of business or one work place but is applicable
or capable of being applicable to other
Employees in the service of the Employer, the
competence of the Union to make such claim
or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of the
Employees in the service of the Employer in
Sri Lanka.
3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question
whether at the establishment of the Employer,
the Union is competent to make general claims
or raise general matters, the same shall be
determined by a Referendum, which shall be
held by the Departmnt of Labour and the result
of such Referendum shall be binding on the
Employer and that Union and the parties hereto.
29. Disputes Procedure
1) In the first instance, the Union shall submit any
demand on behalf of its members to the
Employer and give the Employer at least ten (10)
working days time within which to reply. If, in
the Union's opinion, the Employer's reply is
unsatisfactory, the Union and the Employer shall
explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
2) Where the Union concludes that negotiations
with the Employer have been abortive, it shall
ask the Department of Labour to intervene and
give the Department not less than ten (10)
working days to arrange  Conference and/or
discussions with a view to a settlement of the
dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the
Department of Labour shall then proceed until
the Depatment of Labour reports failure.
3) Subject to the provisions of Clause 32 thereof,
all disputes between the Union and the Employer
shall be settled in accordance with the provsions
of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations
made thereunder.
4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate
support or engage in any unfair labour practice
during the currency of this Agreement.
30. How Anomalies in the course of Implementing
this Agreement shall be dealt with
Any anomaly arising from the implemenation of this
Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between
representatives of the Federation and the Union and
if the matter cannot be settled by negotiation, the
matter shall be settled in accordance with the
provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the
regulations thereunder.
31. Trade Union Action
The Union and its members and the Employees
covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the employer that during the
continuance is force of this Agreement they shall
not engage in any strike or other form of Trade Union
action against the Employer in respect of any Trade
Union action against the Employer in respect of any
dispute between the Employer on the one hand and
the Union and/or its members and/or any employees
covered and bound by this Agreement on the other
hand, whether or not such dispute is related to this
Agreement, except where such disputes has been
caused by an act of an Employer which,  in the
opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name
called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive or
calculated to threaten or undermine the existence
or the legitimate activities of that Union and/or its
members or is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental
to the interests of the Union and or its members.
Provided, however, that at least seven (7) days' notice
in writing shall be given by the Union to the Employer
concerned, the Federation and the Commissioner
General of Labour before the date of commencement
of any intended strike or othr form of Trade Union
action consequent to an act of an Employer which in
the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever
name called) of the Union is mala fide or vindictive
or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence
or the legitimate activities of the Union and/or its
members or is grossly unfair or seriously
detrimental to the interest of that Union and/or its
members.
32. Variations of Terms and conditions of
employment benefits
1) The Union and its members and the Employees
covered and bound by the Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the Employer that during

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
the continuance in force of this Agreement, they
will not seek to vary, alter or add to all or any of
the terms and conditions of employement
presently applicable to any of the Employees
covered and bound by this Agreement as
amended or altered in terms of this Agreement,
or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed
by any of the Employees covered and bound by
this Agreement other than by mutual agreement.
2) The Employer agrees with the Union and its
members and the Employees covered and bound
by this Agreement that he shall not seek to vary,
alter or withdraw all or any or the benefits
presently enjoyed by the employees covered and
bound by this Agreement other than by mutual
agreement.
3) Any dispute or difference arising from
negotiations under the provisions of sub-clauses
(1) or (2) may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties concerned
agree to submit such dispute or difference for
settlement by voluntary arbitration.
PART II
Containing the facilities an concessions granted by
the Employee to the Union
1. Breaches of Collective Ageement
If in the opinion of the employer the Union commits
a breach of any of the terms of this Collective
Agreement, then and in any such event the Union
shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and
concessions granted by the Employer in the
succeeding clauses of this Part and the same shall
stand withdrawn without prejudice to the Employer's
right to restore such facilities and concessions upon
such terms and conditions as the Employer may
decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries
If an Employee who is furnished with a show-cause
notice in terms of Clause 25 is a member of the
Union, the following provisions shall apply to the
inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show-
cause notice.
a) The Employer will subject as hereinafter
provided, allow a member of such Union
(hereinafter referred to as ‘Observer’) to be
present as an Observer without loss of wages
for absence from work.
b) If the Employee who is served with a show-
cause notie desires an Observer to be present at
the inquiry to be held pursuant to such show-
cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at
least before the time appointed for the
commencement of the inquiry submit to the
Employer the name of such Observer.
c) An Observer may answer any question which the
person who conducts the inquiry may ask him,
but an Observer shall not be entitled to represent
the Employee who is served with a show-cause
notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be
entitled to require an Observer who obstructs
such inquiry in any manner whatsoever to
withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall
forthwith comply with such requirement.
e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or
part of an inquiry for any reasons whatsoever
shall not vitiate such inquiry nor the proceedings
there at nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings
The following provisions shall apply to meetings of
the Union :
a) In respect of each meeting, which the Union
desires to hold at the Employer's premises, an
application for permission shall be previously
made to the Employer.
b) If the Employer decides to grant permission, the
Employer shall be entitied to impose, inter alia,
one or more the under-noted conditions.
I. That no person other than an Employee in
the services of the Employer shall be
present at a meeting of the Union.
II. On occasions such as the Annual General
Meeting of the Union, the Office Bearers
of the Parent Union may, with the previous
approval of the Employer, attend.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
III. Fix a time limit within which a meeting of
the Union shall be concluded or adjourned.
c) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office
Bearers to ensure that the terms on which
permission to hold a meeting of such Union is
granted, are duly complied with.
d) It shall be the duty of the Union and its Office
Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in
the course of or in connection with a meting of
the Union to the Employer's property or any
other persons at the Employer's premises and
the Unioin shall indemnify the Employer and
keep the Employer indemnified against any such
damage.
4. Duty Leave
The following provisions shall apply to duty leave :
1) Without prejudice to the right of the Employer
to refuse to grant premission if, at his discretion
the exigencies of the circumstances warrants
refusal, the Employer will generally grant
permission for not less than two Office Bearers
of the Union
a) to be present at the Conference held under
the aegis of the Employer or the
Employers' Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with
a dispute between the Union and the
Employer.
                                             or
b) to attend inquiries before Industrial
Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals
without loss of wages for such absence.
2) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave
without remuneration to an Employee to attend
a trade union course of seminar or conference
either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the
Employee concerened is entitled to Annual or
other holidays which he wishes to utilize for the
purpose.
5. Check - off
1) This Clause shall apply to the Employer if in his
Company the membership of the Union is not
less than forty per centum (40%) of the
employees covered and bound by this Collective
Agreement.
2) The Employer shall, on the written request of
an employee, deduct from the wages due to such
Employee the current monthly Union dues as
are specified by the employee to be payable
monthly by the Employee to the Union and remit
the amount as deducted to the Union, in
accordance with the procedure and upon and
subject to the conditions here in after set forth.
3) Every Employee who agrees to the deduction
of Union dues from his wages shall sign a
statement to that effect in the form set out in
Form No. 1 (hereinafter referred to as an
“Authorisation”) as set out in the First Schedule
hereto.
4) Every Employee shall be entitled to withdraw
his agreement to check-off at any time by signing
a statement to that effect in the form set out in
Form No. 2 (hereinafter referred to as a
“Revocation”) as set out in the First Schedule
hereto.
5) As far as practicable deduction under an
authorisation shall commence from the wages
due immediately after the date of receipt of such
authorization and shall continue therafter until
the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
6) As far as practicable deduction under an
authorization shall cease from the date of receipt
of a revocation cancelling such authorization.
Provided however
a) that an employer shall not be liable in any
manner whatsoever to the Union or the
Employee concerned for failure to comply
with sub-clauses (5) or (6).
b) that,  at his discretion, the Employer shall
be entitled not to make deductions by way
of check-off in any month in which the
deduction by way of check-off , will
together with all other deductions from
the Employee's wages in that month exceed
the deductions permitted by law.
7) The Employer shall not lesser than the tenth day
of each month remit the Union dues deduction

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
from the wages of the employees in the month
immediately preceding to the Treasurer of the
Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorisation by a cheque payable to the
Treasures thereof and crossed “Account Payee”.
8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union
and the employees concerned by post in a pre-
paid envelope, addressed to the treasurer of the
Union at its address for the time being.
9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly
acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay the the
Union or to the Treasurer on its behalf, as
aforesaid, any sum other than the Union dues
actually deducted.
FORM No. 1
Name of Employer
Authorisation
As I am an employee covered and bound by the Collective Agreement affecting Employees employed in a mannual or
labouring capacity in the .....................................................Trade and bearing No............................ ............... of 2017 and I
desire to avail myself of the facility for check-off contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a
member of the ............................................................Union.
Please deduct from my wages each month a sum of Rupees .................................................................... (Rs ...............) in
respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Union and remit same to the said Union on my behalf. The
first payment should pleace be made from my wages next due, immediately following the date hereof.
................................... ...........................
Date of Signing Signature of Employee
..........................................
(Full name of Employer)
Received on ........................................
(To be filled by employer)

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
FORM No. 2
Name of Employer .....................................................................................................................................................................
Revocation
With reference to the authorisation submitted by me, pleace cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues
in favour of ...........................................................Union with effect from the wages next due to me, immedi ately following
the date hereof.
................................... ...........................
Date of Signing Signature of Employee
..........................................
(Full name of Employer)
Received on
........................................
(To be filled by employer)
PART III
Containing Definitions of Certain Words
In parts I and II of this Agreement, unless excluded by the subject or content, the following words shall have the meaning
set opposit to them :
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union of the United Tea, Rubber & Local Produce
Workers' Union covered and bound by  this Collective Agreement.
Check - off The act of the Employer deducting at the request of the Union,
subsecription payable to the Union by an Emloyee from the latter's pay
with his concurrence.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee convered and bound by
(for convernience sometimes)
Referred to as he or its grammatical This Agreement
variations)
Industrial Disputes Act The industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which an employee would normally receive an increment.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AI fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'11'05
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 05.11.2018
Words Meaning
Union United Tea, Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union
Wage The monthly wage according to the scales of consolidated wages in the
First Schedule hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the
suceeding Saturday night.
Year A continuous period of twelve (12) months.
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine, Words importing the singular number shall include the
plural and vice versa.
In Witness whereof the parties aforementioned have hereunto set their hands at Colombo. G . S. Jayasinghe, Executive
Director for & on behalf of Finlay Properties (Private) Ltd, and D. W. Subasinghe, General Secretary for & on behalf of
United Tea Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union on this 24th day of April Two Thousand Eighteen.
.................................... ....................................
G . S. Jayasinghe D. W. Subasinghe
Executive Director General Secretary
Finlay Properties (Pvt.) Ltd United Tea Rubber & Local Produce Workers' Union
....................................
Coralie Pietersz
Executive Director
Finaly Properties (Pvt.) Limited
Wintesses :
1. Name : 1. Dhaniskka Dharmarathe 1. Name : K. M. S. N. Rathnayake
Designation : Manager - HR Designation : Branch President
2. Name : 2. Chaminda Waduge 2. Name : S. Y . A. S. Silva
Designation : Manager Production Designation : Branch Secretary
11 - 803
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA