

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1395
1395
wxl 1"834 - 2013 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'10'25
No. 1,834 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 25, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... ––
P
AGE
By Laws ... 1436
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I:III and III of the Gazette No.1833 of 17.10.2013 were not published.
Note.—  (i) State Employees Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2013.
(ii) Sri Lanka Sethsewa Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2013.
(iii) Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 04, 2013.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th November, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st
November, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-l aw,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1396
By - Laws
THE  STANDARD  BY-LAWS  OF  SOLID  WASTE MANAGEMENT
Proposed by Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils
SHAN Wijayalal De Silva, the Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply an d
Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Province  Provincial
Council, do hereby rescind the Standard By-Laws made by me relevant to the Solid Waste Management within the Municipal Council
area and published in Gazette No. 1766 dated 06.07.2012 and No. 1806 dated 12.04.2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
Further, the draft By-laws set-out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-Charge the subject of Local Government
under Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act,  No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act,  No. 12 of 1989 are hereby published.
Municipal Councils are empowered by Paragraph ( b) of  Sub-Section (5) of Section 272 and Section 129 of the Municipal
Councils Ordinance (Chapter 252) read with the Section 267 of the said Ordinance  to make By-laws on Solid Waste Management and
the Municipal Councils of Southern Province are empowered to adopt  the by-laws in accordance with the provisions of Sub-sectio n 3
of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
S
HAN WIJAYALAL DE SILV A,
 Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport,
Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services,
Health and Indigenous Medicine and
Local Government, Southern Province.
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government
Southern Province Provincial Council,
26th day of September, 2013.
GENERAL
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to solid waste management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection, transportation,
operation and maintenance of transfer stations, processing, treatment and disposal of “solid waste” generated in public places,
private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within Municipal  Limits and all other incidental activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the Council area shall keep the premises free of waste and in a healt hy
and pleasant condition.
4. The owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area of the Council shall collect, segregate, store, transport and
remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to do so accordance with the provisions of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect solid waste generated within his own premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be segregated the waste collected in accordance with the preceding
Sub-section of this By-law in accordance with the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin or other receptacle used by the owner or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall be maintained in good condition and not put-out for collection, if
they are torn, punctured, broken or softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other reason, they are likely

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1397
to collapse or split when reasonably handled. Council  may provide such receptacles if they so wish subsidizing the cost
in part or in full according to a decision made by the Council.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in accordance with
the collection system and the time schedule, operated in a Council area, as determined and publicly notified from time to
time by the Council.
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose of waste materials that are detrimental injurous or to health of
occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the sanitary conditions in that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road, thoroughfare, lane, avenue or any other public place or premises or a d rain
or a waterway, water reservoir or the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the environment in an open space within the Muncipal  area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission in terms of the provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge, treat,
process or dispose of any type of waste, he may hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) W aste not processed, treated or disposed of under the provisions of By-law No. 7 or any type of waste not collected by
an authorized collector under the provisions of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of By-law
Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the waste within such premises except -
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited by the Council, or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed in
accordance with a plan and standard approved by the Commissioner or treat, process or bury waste in the manner approved
by the Commissioner.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the Commissioner for “compost barrel” the Commissioner may supply
such equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space in the premises
to maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or treat the garden waste collected within that premises in a manner
approved by the Commissioner as far as practicable. Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Municipal  Waste Collector
any residual garden waste on payment of a fee specified as determined by the Council from time to time taking into
consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the Commissioner.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or cause them
to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take stops to prevent any animal under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare or in a public
place. If excreta are passed, that person shall be responsible for cleaning  up the excreta and disposing of it in accordance
with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public place within
the Municipal area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house or any other premises shall include in his application details of
solid waste generated in his premises and the manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged material.
R
ESIDENTIAL PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the wastes collected by sweeping or by any other menthod as
follows :
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1398
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung;
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place them in an
area reserved for this purpose until removal. Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be kept in a receptacle made
of an impermeable material which will be properly closed preventing the entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a Municipal Waste Collector without delay following the payment of
a fee to the Commissioner  as determined by the Council from time to time for the Municipal area taking into consideration
the nature of the disposable waste.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector, types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph (i). If the
occupier fails to do so, he shall together with the type of waste specified in item (c) hand over to a Municipal Waste
Collector or deposit in bins constructed for each waste type by the Council, or in bins or other receptacles provided by the
Council for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner of occupier of each residence in a multi-storied building with a number of tenements, shall segregate their
waste as follows:
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung;
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier or a building specified in paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in accordance
with standards and specifications approved by the Commissioner and shall maintain them in a clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of Sub-section
(ii), the Commissioner  has the power to require the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such bins or receptacles
on or before a  notified date by the Commissioner and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance with the
requirements of the Commissioner.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put segregated waste into the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove types of waste specified in items  (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law. Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed over to a Municipal
Waste Collector.
10. (i) It is lawful for the Commissioner to provide waste bins or receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after obtaining pr ior
approval of the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all collected waste from his place of residence, segregated as follows, into
the nearest approved bins or receptacles supplied to his place of residence -
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(iii) The Commissioner has the power to permit a waste collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of
Sub-section (ii) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed together with types of waste of type (c) and (d) shall be
handed over to a Municipal Waste Collector.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1399
SHOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand over types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law to an authorized waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex with several storey and floors shall provide the required number
of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or office in accordance with the standards approved by the Commissioner for
depositing or collecting segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in Sub-section (iv) of this By-law shall put segregated waste into
separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized waste collector, types of
waste specified in items (a) and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in item (i) and any types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law,
that are not collected by an authorized collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the case may to a
Municipal waste collector, following the payment of a fee to the Commissioner by the owner or occupier as the case may
be as determined by the  Council from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins or
receptacles specified in this  By-law so as not to cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbors or persons
engaged in services in such shop or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Occupier” means the owner of a shop, or occupier or caretaker of a business or an office,
“Office” has the same meaning given in the  Shops and Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129),
“Shop” means  place where goods are kept for wholesale  or retail and includes a place where food or beverages are kept for
sale, and a place where a barber shop or beauty salon is operated.
H
OTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste and
store in a suitable place until removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of plastic or metal
properly secured with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to authorized collector.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1400
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv) of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i) shall be
handed over to a Municipal waste collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the Commissioner as
determined by the Council from time to time taking into consideration the nature of the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Hotel” means a place with a without sleeping
facilities where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of money and it includes a restaurant,
guest house, lodging house, rest house, pilgrim’s rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and any other premises in which a
business is carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
V
EGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his own premis es
as follows :-
(a) vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for human consumption;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii)  T ypes of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made of
impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other animals.
Other waste shall be put into any suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waste not so handed over together with types of waste specified in item (c) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this
By-law shall be handed over to Municipal waste collector, on payment of a fee to the Commissioner, as determined by the
Council from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires “Vegetable and fruit store” means a place where
vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
M
EAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers Ordnance in
terms of a license issued by the Commissioner for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be slaughtered,
the manner in which the slaughter house shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning and removal of blood,
intestines and other parts not taken for human consumption and other condition the Council may think fit.
(iii) The Commissioner may charge a fee as determined by the Council from time to time for the issue of a license under sub-
section (i) of this By-law payable at time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their waste as
follows:-
(a) carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable for human consumption;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or other receptacle types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section ( iv)
of this By-law shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (iv) of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not handed over, together with type of waste specified in item (c) of sub-section (iv) of this
By-law, shall be handed over to a Municipal  waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Council
from time to time before the spread of foul odor.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1401
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires “meat, fish or egg stall” means a place where such
items are stored for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
PAVEMENT HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for such waste,
in accordance with the standards to be approved by the Commissioner. Any such waste shall not be put on the pavement
or highway or in a public place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of vehicles or
pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated by reason of his business as follows:-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (iii)
of this By-law that may be eaten by insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured receptacle, which shall be kept
closed except when required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such types of waste as specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (iii)
of this By-law to an authorized collector or together with such types of waste as specified in item (c) of sub-section (iii) of
this By-law to a Municipal waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be kept, on a pavement or roadside or highway,
when the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined by the Council from time to time before waste bins or other
receptacles are handed over to a Municipal  waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Pavement hawker” means a person who sells goods
or provides a service on the pavement or roadside.
F
ACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect waste generated by such factory within the factory premises and
segregate them as follows:-
(a) bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an authorized collector.
Any waste not so handed over, shall be handed over to a Municipal  waste collector, on a payment of a fee as determined
by the Council from time to time, to the Commissioner.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the conditions set out in the Environmental Protection License issued under
the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Factory” has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
E
XCA V ATION, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street road or any public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure shall store suc h
waste so generated within the premises or in a place approved by the Commissioner until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to a Municipal  waste collector on a payment
of a fee to the Commissioner as determined by the Council from time to time.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1402
(iii) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires -
“ For the purpose of this By-law, every person engaged in an act of excavation, construction or demolition” includes any
person engaged for such service by an employer,
“Waste” includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in construction from the use of building materials and waste generated
during demolition of any construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall obtain prior approval from the Commissioner.
(ii) The Commissioner shall take into consideration the arrangements made by the applicant for  the removal of waste, the
quantity of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in a public place after completion of the proposed job, and
the cost of removal of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to giving approval under Sub-section (i) the
applicant shall be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of waste shall be
removed in a manner to be decided by the Commissioner and the resulting expenditure incurred may be set off from the
moneys deposited under Sub-section (ii).
H
OSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be segregated waste generated within the premised as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item (d) in this sub-section
(d) hazardous healthcare waste
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) under sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles and stored in
a suitable place until removal. Types of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of sub-section (i) shall be deposited in a bins
or any other receptacles specially made for that purpose, and kept in a place set apart for that purpose, and shall be
removed in accordance with the conditions set out in the  Environment Protection License issued to that hospital under the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized collector or
to the Municipal  waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iv) In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Hospital” means any premises (howsoever described) used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing and treatment
of persons or animals suffering from any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic, medical centre,
medical laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital.
“Hazardous healthcare waste” means clinical waste, body parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste and
sharps.
O
THER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and operates
with the participation of the public, a religious, social, cultural or educational activity or due to maintenance of such an
establishment as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1403
(ii)  Any organizer of any activity specified in Sub-section (i) shall inform the Council in advance, so that special arrangements
may be made to collect the waste from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be subject to a fee as determined
by the Council from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to a Municipal waste collector, along with the type of waste specified in item (c) of Sub-section (i), on payment
of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
S
TREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Commissioner in consultation with the Mayor and subject to the approval of the Council shall take steps to plan,
supervise, control and administer the following.
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the streets, public places thoroughfares, public drains, watercourses and
public markets situated within the Municipal area;
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient number of waste bins on both sides of the streets or roads and in all
public places;
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in a public places, at festivals, special events or any other event as determined
by the Council where the Council decides to do so, or following a request from the organizers of such festival on
special events;
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and remove the
waste deposited therein before it becomes  a nuisance to nearby residents;
(e)  to investigate any complaint received in respect of the activities apecified in the preceding sections and take action
forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial, institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin provided by the
Council specifically for litter.
D
UTIES OF THE  MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
22. (i) The  Commissioner in consultation with the Mayor and subject to the approval of the Council shall plan, supervise, contro l
and administer following :
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle waste;
(b) to conduct awareness programs or propaganda through media in relation to segregation, collection, storage, discharge
and disposal of waste;
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged in reuse and recycling activities;
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction, reuse and recycle activities;
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge system;
(f) to prepare a waste collection Schedule, setting out collection days, times, methods and fees as determined by the
Council for different types of waste in different areas of the Municipality. This Schedule shall be publicly notified by
the Council. It may include conditions for collection on public holidays;
(g) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to authorized collectors separately, on time and according to Schedule;
(h) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste and any other waste, that has not been handed over to authorized
collectors;
(i) to handover to an authorized collector waste collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains and the cleaning the
public places, and waste collected from public bins and waste collected by Council laborers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the Commissioner;

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1404
(j) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated waste collected by Municipal waste collectors, including
arrangement for the processing and treatment of part or all food and other bio-degradable, reusable and recyclable
waste as much as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from such operations and other residual waste of these
types in a manner, approved by the Commissioner;
(k) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner approved by the Commissioner, in consultation with the Central
Environmental Authority;
(l) to obtain a license or environmental protection license in accordance with the provisions of the National Environment
Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subject to the conditions specified in the license or environmental protection license to burn
waste or to maintain a sanitary landfill;
(m) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth covers and boots to every employee engaged in sweeping,
collection, segregation, transportation, transfer and disposal of waste;
(n) to check and approved details of the manner of disposal of solid waste generated on construction or renovation and
the manner of storage, process and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the completion of the specified works
where an application is submitted to the Council for the construction or renovation of a house or other premises;
(o) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for all council premises;
(p) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy of Solid
Waste Management and relevant legislation which covers at least each calendar year in detail and three years ahead for
final disposal and such plan shall be approved annually on a less frequent basis by the Council, according to the period
it covers;
(q) to investigate any complaint received by the Mayor and the Commissioner regarding the activities referred to in items
(a) to (p) within three days for any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for any other complaint and  take
action forthwith.
P
ERMITS
23. (i) The Council may issue a permit to any person who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures compost, bio-gas or
any other product where any person -
(a) carries our any business within the Municipal area or in any other local authority area, in terms of the By-laws as
approved by the Council;
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License, issued in accordance with the provisions of the National Environment
Act, No. 47 of 1980;
(c) Storage place for collected waste constructed in accordance with the standards approved by the Council;
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the Council and without
causing nuisance to people;
(e) agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or any other waste created as by-products during processing or
treatment, to the Council as approved by the Council on payment of a fee the Commissioner for collection of such
waste as determined by the Council form time to time , where the business is carried out within the Municipal Council
Limits.
(ii) Where the Council refuses or rejects to issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons for such
refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Commissioner shall indicate in the permit, the period of validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be collected,
the permitted area for collection of such waste and any other appropriate conditions.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1405
(iv) The Commissioner shall revoke the permit issued under this By-law in the event of non-compliance of the provisions of
subsection (i) of this By-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv) In such event the
Commissioner shall give sufficient publicity thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation of
such permit.
W
ASTE DISPOSAL AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste disposal area
reserved by the Council for that purpose no deposit any prohibited refuse which the Council from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Council subject to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside the land
or facility within the Municipal Council limits except with the prior written approval of the Council and the Central
Environmental Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
O
THER
26. (i) The Commissioner or any person authorized by him in writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter any
premises and inspect as to whether the owner or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager, or any person residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the information
required by the Commissioner or any authorized officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Commissioner or an authorized officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of his
powers under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Council from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per Municipal Council
Ordinance.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these By-laws, unless context otherwise requires -
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a permit from the Commissioner to collect or receive waste under the
provision of these by-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means any person who has been authorized in writing by the Commissioner to execute or carry out
such duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag, or other container used for waste storage, discharge, collection or
transportation that complies with the requirements set out in these By laws,
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized collector or Municipal waste collector for transportation for
refusing, recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facilities,
“Commissioner” means in relation to any Municipality, means the Municipal Commissioner of the Municipal Council
constituted under the Municipal Council Ordinance (Chapter 252) for that Municipality and includes any Deputy
or Assistant Municipal Commissioner of such Council and any person appointed to act as such Municipal
Commissioner or such Deputy or Assistant Municipal Commissioner or any officer of such Council empowered
by or under this Ordinance, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the powers, duties or functions of the
Commissioner to the extent to which such officer is so empowered,

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1406
“Compost” means the final product of the bio degradation of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could be
functioned as soil conditioner.
“Council” means ....................Municipal Council,
“Council Area” or “Municipal area” means the area declared under the authority of the Municipal Council Ordinance
(Chapter 252),
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced by a person or premises and put out for collection either within
or outside their premises or given to authorized collectors or Municipal waste collectors,
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is neither re-used, recycled, processes or treated, on or in land where it
is intended to stay permanently,
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Council from time to time,
“Food Waste’ means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits and other edible materials that cannot be used for consumption,
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or plants in a home garden or stones, soil etc removed from a home
garden,
“Hazardous Waste’ means waste that is poisonous, corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature,
“Municipal  waste collector” means an employee engaged by the Council for sweeping, collection, receipt or removal of
waste from bins or receptacles or a person who has entered into a contract with the Council to perform such
duties.
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the
owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent
and does not include a manager who acts under the order of another person,
“Public Place” means a road, ground, public land, road reservation, playground, public building, cemetery, bus stand,
railway station, river, canal, stream, lake, reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or any
other places commonly used by the public,
“Recyclable waste” means by waste that can be used to produce new goods by changing that from in the process so that
they are no longer recognizable as waste,
“Reusable Waste” means waste that can be utilized after washing, disinfection  or cleaning by other means,
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri Lanka to
minimize the associated social, health and environmental impacts,
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Solid waste” means substances which have no consumer value to person who abandoned them and includes rubbish,
garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash,
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public collection
point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the Council for this purpose where waste is transferred from smaller to
larger vehicles for the purposes of improving the transportation efficiency of the waste from the transfer station
to any recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facility
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection point to processing, treatment, or disposal facilities using sum
form of human or animal or mechanically powered vehicle,
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce the potential harm or damage they may cause to people or the
environment.
10-767/1

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1407
BY   LAWS  RELATING   TO   ERADICATION  OF MOSQUITOES  AND  DISEASE  INFLICTING  INSECTS  WITHIN
THE  MUNICIPAL  COUNCIL   AREA
SHAN Wijayalal De Silva, the Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply an d
Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial
Council, do hereby rescind the By-Laws made by me relevant to the Eradication of Mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects with in the
Municipal Council area and published in Gazette No. 1766 dated 06.07.2012 and No. 1806 dated 12.04.2013 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
Further, the draft By-laws set-out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject to Local Government
under Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act,  No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act,  No. 12 of 1989 are hereby published.
Municipal Councils are empowered by Paragraph ( h) of  Sub-Section (5) of Section 272 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance
(Chapter 252) read with the Section 267 of the said Ordinance  to make By-laws of Eradication of Mosquitoes and Disease  Inflic ting
Insects and the Municipal  Councils of Southern Province are empowered to adopt the by-laws in accordance with the provisions of Sub-
section 3 of the Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
SHAN WIJAY ALAL DE SILV A,
 Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport,
Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services,
Health and Indigenous Medicine and
Local Government, Southern Province.
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government ,
Southern Province Provincial Council,
Galle
26th day of September, 2013.
By-Laws
1. These By-laws may be  cited as the By-laws for the improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of Authority
of Municipal Council by the prevention of mosquito breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding and for the prevention of
epidemics within such area of authority.
2. No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done within the area of authority of any Municipal Council which may cause
the breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other disease inflicting insects.
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises whether resident or non resident, within the area of authorit y
of a Municipal Council to cause—
(a) open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tyres, coconut shells, split coconuts, and any other article or receptacle or vessel
found within such premises to be removed or destroyed;
(b) gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth flow of
water;
(c) all water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as to make
it mosquito-proof and insect proof and thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects;
(d) any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and
disease inflicting insects;
(e) any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to be emptied and cleaned at least once in every week;
(f) measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected in the drains found in such premises by allowing free flow of
water and with regular maintenance;

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1408
(g) shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation other than those grown for the purpose of food or for ornamental
purposes and found within a range of five loss meters from any building within such premises which is used as a dwelling
place, to be removed in entirety;
(h) all quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other pits with in such premises and used for any other purpose, to be
maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting collected in them;
(i) the removal and destruction of land grown ornamental plants and aquatic plant commonly known as ‘Diya parandel’,
“Penda pasi”, Tel pasi or any other plants or aquatic plants found within such premises which may facilitate the
breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects and prevention of the floating of such plants along any water
course, by the erection of suitable barriers;
(j) any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained and kept
in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes;
(k) take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other place
within such area.
4. The Mayor of the Municipal Council or any officer authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day between 6 a.m.
to 6 p.m. enter any premises within the area of authority of the Municipal Council and inspect such premises to ensure the
following :
(i) whether such premises is  a breeding place for mosquitoes;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied with the provisions of the by-laws;
(iii) where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding of and destroy the mosquitoes, what such measures are; and
(iv) whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises was a success.
5. (i) The Mayor or any officer authorized in writing for the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises, if necessary,
require the owner or occupier of such premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary to destroy the mosquitoes
and eradicate the conditions favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of  a premises to whom a written notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply with such
notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises shall without the written approval of the Mayor, construct any
well, bank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental showers, or any other structure where water can get collected or stored.;
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the provisions of paragraph (i) of this by law, the Mayor shall, by a written
notice served on the owner or occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such well, tank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental shower of structure with specified material or destroy otherwise or alter same in the  manner specified in such
notice within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any notice under By law 5 or 6 may be either duly served by delivering it personally to the owner or occupier of the
premises or by affixing such notice in a conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession of any premises and if notice specified in By law 5 or By law 6
in duly served on one of them, all the co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to comply with the requirements
of such notice or for non-performance of the reqirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom a written notice has been served under by law 5 or by law 6, fails
to comply with the requirements of such written notice, the Mayor or any officer authorized for the purpose by him in
writing may, enter such premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6 a.m. to 6 p. m. with any assistants or
servants and carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures specified in such notice.
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises under By law
5 or By law 6 has been carried out by the Mayor or any officer authorized by him in writing, the expenses incurred in
carrying out such work shall be payable to the Municipal Council by such owner or occupier of such premises. The owner
or occupier of the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date of a request under the hand of the Mayor for the
payment of such expenses, to the Municipal Council and if he fails to make such payment as requested the provisions of
the Part XV of the Municipal Councils Ordinance shall be applicable.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1409
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws hshall be guilty of an offence as per the Municipal Councils
Ordinance.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these By-laws —
“authorized officer” shall mean any officer in a Municipal Council authorized in writing by the Mayor of such Municipal
Council;
“Mayor” shall mean the Mayor of the Municipal Council;
“disease inflicting insects” shall mean Mosquitoes and other insects which carries diseases.
“Occupier” shall mean a person in occupation of any premises or havng the charge, management or control thereof, whether on
his own account or as an agent of any other;
“owner” shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or any person who has any right to the rent or produce of the premises;
“premises” shall mean, any land, house, building, or any construction, or any well, being used or abandoned or any abandoned
ship, container or vehicle and also includes any pond, tank or any bank or any lake, water course, drain or river.
10-767/2
THE  STANDARD  BY-LAWS  OF  SOLID  WASTE MANAGEMENT
Proposed  by  Ministry  of  Local  Government  and  Provincial  Councils
SHAN Wijayalal De Silva, the Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply an d
Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial
Council, do hereby rescind the standard By-Laws made by me relevant to the Solid Waste management within the Urban Council area and
published in Gazette No. 1766 dated 06.07.2012 and No. 1806 dated 12.04.2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Further, the draft By-laws set-out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject of Local Government
under Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act,  No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act,  No. 12 of 1989 are hereby published.
Urban Councils are empowered by Paragraph (b) amd (c) of  Sub-Section (9) of Section 157 and Section 118 of the Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255) read with the Section 153 of the said Ordinance  to make By-laws on Solid Waste Management and the Urba n
Councils of Southern Province are empowered to adopt by-laws in accordance with the provisions of Sub-section 3 of the Local
Authorities Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
S
HAN WIJAYALAL DE SILV A,
 Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport,
Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services,
Health and Indigenous Medicine and
Local Government, Southern Province.
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government
Southern Province Provincial Council,
Galle.
26th day of September, 2013.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1410
GENERAL
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to solid waste management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection, transportation,
operation and maintenance of transfer stations, processing, treatment and disposal of “solid waste” generated in public places,
private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within Urban Council Limits and all other incidental activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the Council area shall keep the premises free of waste and in a healt hy
and pleasant condition.
4. The owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area of the Council shall collect, segregate, store, transport and
remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to do so accordance with the provisions of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect solid waste generated within his own premises daily or in lesser
intervals if required, by sweeping or using any other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be segregated the waste collected in accordance with the preceding Sub-
section of this By-law in accordance with the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin of other receptacle used by the owner or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall be maintained in good condition and not putout for collection, if
they are torn, punctured, broken or softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other reason, they are likely
to collapse or split when reasonably handled. Council may provide such receptacles if they so wish subsidizing the cost in
part or in full according to a decision made by the Council.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in accordance with
the collection system and the time schedule, operated in a Council area, as determined and publicly notified from time to
time by the Council.
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose of waste materials that are detrimental injurieous or to health of
occupants, visitors or neighbours or to the sanitary conditions in that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road, thoroughfare, lane, avenue or any other public place or premises or a d rain
or a waterway, water reservoir or the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the environment in an open space within the Urban Council area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission in terms of the provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge, treat,
process or dispose of any type of waste, he may hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) W aste not processed, treated or disposed of under the provisions of By-law No. 7 or any type of waste not collected by
an authorized collector under the provisions of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of By-law
Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the waste within such premises except -
(a) in areas where disposal of such waste is prohibited by the Council, or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed in
accordance with a plan and standard approved by the Secretary, or treat, process or bury waste in the manner approved by
the Secretary.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the Secretary for “compost barrel” the Secretary may supply such
equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full provided the owner or occupier has sufficient space in the premises to
maintain the equipment.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1411
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or treat the garden waste collected within that premises in a manner
approved by the Secretary as far as practicable. Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Urban Council waste collector
any residual garden waste on payment of a fee specified as determined by the Council from time to time taking into
consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the Secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or cause them
to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take stops to prevent any animal under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare or in a public
place. If excreta are passed, that person shall be responsible for cleaning  up the excreta and disposing of it in accordance
with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public place within
the Urban Council area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house or any other premises shall include in his application details of
solid waste generated in his premises and the manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged material.
R
ESIDENTIAL  PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the wastes collected by sweeping or by any other method as follows-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place them in an
area reserved for this purpose until removal. Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be kept in a receptacle made
of an impermeable material which will be properly closed preventing the entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a  waste collector without delay following the payment of a fee to the
Secretary as determined by the Council from time to time Urban Council area taking into consideration the nature of the
disposable waste.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector, types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph (i). If the
occupier fails to do so, he shall together with the type of waste specified in item (c) hand over to an Urban waste collector
or deposit in bins constructed for each waste type by the Council, or in bins or other receptacles provided by the Council
for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner of occupier of each residence in a multi-storied building with a number of tenements, shall segregate their
waste as follows:
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung,
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in accordance
with standards and specifications approved by the Secretary and shall maintain them in a clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of Sub-section
(ii), the Secretary has the power to require the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such bins or receptacles on or
before a  notified date by the Secretary and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance with the requirements
of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put segregated waste in to the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) o f
this By-law. Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed over to a Urban Council
waste collector.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1412
10. (i) It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after obtaining prior
approval of the Council.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all collected waste from his place of residence, segregated as follows, into
the nearest approved bins or receptacles supplied to his place of residence -
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(iii) The Secretary has the power to permit a waste collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-
section (ii) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Urban Council waste collector.
SHOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall segregate waste collected in each complex as follows —
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand over types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law to an authorized waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex with several storey and floors shall provide the required number
of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or office in accordance with the standards approved by the Secretary for
depositing or collecting segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in Sub-section (iv) of this by-law shall put segregated waste into
separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized waste collector, types of
waste specified in items (a) and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in item (i) and any types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law,
that are not collected by an authorized collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the case may to a Urban
Council waste collector, following the payment of a fee to the Secretary by the owner or occupier as the case may be as
determined by the  Council from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins or
receptacles specified in this  By-law so as not to cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbors or persons
engaged in services in such shop or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Occupier” means the owner of a shop, or occupier or caretaker of a business or an office,
“Office” has the same meaning given in the  Shops and Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129),
“Shop” means  place where goods are kept for wholesale  or retail and includes a place where food or beverages are kept for
sale, and a place where a barber shop or beauty salon is operated.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1413
HOTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste and
store in a suitable place until removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of plastic or metal
properly secured with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv) of this By-law and types of waste specified in item (i) shall be
handed over to an Urban Council waste collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the Secretary as
determined by the Council from time to time taking into consideration the nature of the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Hotel” means a place with a without sleeping
facilities where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of money and it includes a restaurant,
guesthouse, lodging house, rest house, pilgrim’s rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and any other premises in which a
business is carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.
V
EGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his own premis es
as follows :-
(a) vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for human consumption,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii)  T ypes of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made of
impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other animals.
Other waste shall be put into any suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waste not so handed over together with types of waste specified in item (c) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this
By-law shall be handed over to Urban Council waste collector, on payment of a fee to the Secretary, as determined by the
Council from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires “Vegetable and fruit store” means a place where
vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
M
EAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers Ordinance in
terms of a license issued by the Secretary for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i)  of this By-law shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be slaughtered,
the manner in which the slaughter house shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning and removal of blood,
intestines and other parts not taken for human consumption and other condition the Council may think fit.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1414
(iii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the Council from time to time for the issue of a license under sub-section
(i) of this by-law payable at time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their waste as
follows:-
(a) carcasses or parts of carcasses or egg not suitable for human consumption,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or other receptacle types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section ( iv)
of this By-law shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (iv) of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not handed over, together with type of waste specified in item (c) of sub-section (iv) of this By-
law, shall be handed over to a Urban Council waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Council
from time to time before the spread of foul odor.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires “meat, fish or egg stall” means a place where such
items are stored for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
Pavement Hawking
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for such waste,
in accordance with the standards to be approved by the Secretary. Any such waste shall not be put on the pavement or
highway or in a public place.
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of vehicles or
pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated by reason of his business as follows:-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (iii)
of this By-law that may be eaten by insects, rats or animals shall be placed inside a secured receptacle, which shall be kept
closed except when required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such types of waste as specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (iii)
of this by-law to an authorized collector or together with such types of waste as specified in item (c) of sub-section (iii) of
this By-law to a Urban Council waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be kept, on a pavement or roadside or
highway, when the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined by the Council from time to time before waste bins or other
receptacles are handed over to an Urban Council waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Pavement hawker” means a person who sells goods
or provides a service on the pavement or roadside.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1415
Factories
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect waste generated by such factory within the factory premises and
segregate them as follows:-
(a) bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) T ypes of waste specified in items ( a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waste not so handed over, shall be handed over to an Urban Council waste collector, on a payment of a fee
as determined by the Council from time to time, to the Secretary.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the conditions set out in the Environmental Protection License issued
under the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Factory” has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
E
XCAV ATION, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street road or any public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure shall store suc h
waste so generated within the premises or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to a Urban Council waste collector on a
payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iii) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires -
“ For the purpose of this By-law, every person engaged in an act of excavation, construction or demolition” includes any
person engaged for such service by an employer,
“Waste” includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in construction from the use of building materials and waste generated
during demolition of any construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall obtain prior approval from the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall take into consideration the arrangements made by the applicant for  the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in a public place after completion of the proposed job, and the cost
of removal of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to giving approval under sub-section (i) the applicant shall
be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of waste shall be
removed in a manner to be decided by the Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be set off from the money
deposited under sub-section (ii).
H
OSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be segregated waste generated within the premised as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item ( d) in this sub-section,
(d) hazardous healthcare waste,
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1416
(ii) T ypes of waste specified in items ( a) and (b) under sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles and stored in
a suitable place until removal. Types of waste specified in items ( c) and (d) of sub-section (i) shall be deposited in a bins
or any other receptacles specially made for that purpose, and kept in a place set apart for that purpose, and shall be
removed in accordance with the conditions set out in the  Environment Protection License issued to that hospital under the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized collector or to
the Municipal waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
(iv) In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Hospital” means any premises (howsoever described) used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing and treatment
of persons or animals suffering from any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic, medical centre,
medical laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital.
“Hazardous healthcare waste” means clinical waste, body parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste and
sharps.
O
THER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in by-laws nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and operates with
the participation of the public, a religious, social, cultural or educational activity or due to maintenance of such an
establishment as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste,
(b) reusable and recyclable waste,
(c) hazardous waste,
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii)  Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section (i) shall inform the Council in advance, so that special arrangements
may be made to collect the waste from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be subject to a fee as determined
by the Council from time to time.
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items ( a), (b) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to an Urban Council waste collector, along with the type of waste specified in item (c) of sub-section (i), on
payment of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
S
TREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Council shall take steps to plan,
supervise, control and administer the following:
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the streets, public places thoroughfares, public drains, watercourses and
public markets situated within the Urban Council area,
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient number of waste bins or both sides of the streets or roads and in all
public places,
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in a public places, at festivals, special events or any other event as determined
by the Council where the Council decides to do so, or following a request from the organizers of such festival on
special events,
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and remove the
waste deposited therein before it becomes  a nuisance to nearby residents,
(e)  to investigate any complaint received in respect of the activities apecified in the preceding sections and take action
forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial, institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin provided by the
Council specifically for litter.

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1417
DUTIES OF THE URBAN COUNCIL
22. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Council shall plan, supervise, control
and administer following :
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programs or propaganda through media in relation to segregation, collection, storage, discharge
and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction, reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge system,
(f) to prepare a waste collection Schedule, setting out collection days, times, methods and fees as determined by the
Council for different types of waste in different areas of the Urban Council. This Schedule shall be publicly notified
by the Council. It may include conditions for collection on public holidays,
(g) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to authorized collectors separately, on time and according to Schedule,
(h) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste and any other waste, that has not been handed over to authorized
collectors,
(i) to handover to an authorized collector waste collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains and the cleaning the
public places, and waste collected from public bins and waste collected by Council laborers, except for hazardous
waste or other types of waste specified by the Secretary.
(j) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated waste collected by Municipal Council waste collectors, including
arrangement for the processing and treatment of part or all food and other bio-degradable, reusable and recyclable
waste as much as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from such operations and other residual waste or these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(k) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the Central Environmental
Authority,
(l) to obtain a license or environmental protection license in accordance with the provisions of the National Environment
Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subject to the conditions specified in the license or environmental protection license to burn
waste or to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(m) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth covers and boots to every employee engaged in sweeping,
collection, segregation, transportation, transfer and disposal of waste,
(n) to check and approved details of the manner of disposal of solid waste generated on construction or renovation and the
manner of storage, process and disposal of rubble at the initial stage and on the completion of the specified works
where an application is submitted to the Council for the construction or renovation of a house or other premises.
(o) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for all council premises.
(p) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy of Solid
Waste Management and relevant legislation which covers at least each calendar year in detail and three years ahead for
final disposal and such plan shall be approved annually on a less frequent basis by the Council, according to the period
it covers,
(q) to investigate any complaint received by the Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities referred to in items (a)
to (p) within three days for any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for any other complaint and  take action
forthwith.
P
ERMITS
23. (i) The Council may issue a permit to any person who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures compost, bio-gas or
any other product where any person -

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1418
(a) carries out any business within the Urban Council area or in any other Local  Authority Area, in terms of the By-laws
as approved by the Council,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License, issued in accordance with the provisions of the National Environment
Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) Storage place for collected waste constructed in accordance with the standards approved by the Council,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the Council and without
causing nuisance to people.
(e) agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or any other waste created as by-products during processing or
treatment, to the Council as approved by the Council on payment of a fee the Secretary for collection of such waste
as determined by the Council from time to time , where the business is carried out within the Urban Council limits.
(ii) Where the Council refuses or rejects to issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons for such
refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period of validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be collected, the
permitted area for collection of such waste and any other appropriate conditions.
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under this By-law in the event of non-compliance of the provisions of
subsection (i) of this By-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv) In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation of such
permit.
W
ASTE DISPOSAL AREAS
24. No. unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste disposal  area
reserved by the Council for that purpose no deposit any prohibited refuse which the Council from time to time may stipulate
unless authorized by the Council subject to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside the land
or facility within the Urban Council limits except with the prior written approval of the Council and the Central Environmental
Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
O
THER
26. (i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter any premi ses
and inspect as to whether the owner or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager, or any person residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the information
required by the Secretary or any authorized officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of his powers
under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Council from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per Urban Council Ordinance.

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1419
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these By-laws, unless context otherwise requires -
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a permit from the Secretary to collect or receive waste under the
provision of these By-laws;
“Authorized Officer” means any person who has been authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or carry out such
duties under these By-laws;
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag or other container used for waste storage, discharge, collection or
transportation that complies with the requirements set out in these By-laws –
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded or decomposed by micro-organisms;
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized collector or Urban Council waste collector for transportation for
refusing, recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facilities;
“Secretary” means in relation to any Urban Council, means the Secretary of the Urban Council constituted under the Urban
Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255) for that Urban Council any person appointed to act as such  Secretary or any
officer of such Council empowered by or under this Ordinance, to exercise, perform or discharge any of the
powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the extent to which such officer is so empowered;
“Compost” means the final product of the bio degradation of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could be
functioned as soil conditioner;
“Council” means ....................Urban Council;
“Council Area” or “Urban Council area” means the area declared under the authority of the Urban Councils Ordinance
(Chapter 255);
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced by a person or premises and put out for collection either within
or outside their premises or given to authorized collectors or Urban Council waste collectors;
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is neither re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land where it
is intended to stay permanently;
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Council from time to time;
“Food Waste’ means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits and other edible materials that cannot be used for consumption;
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or plants in a home garden or stones soil etc removed from a home garden;
“Hazardous Waste’ means waste that is poisonous, corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature;
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the
owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent
and does not include a manager who acts under the order of another person;
“Public Place” means a road, ground, public land, road reservation, playground, public building, cemetery, bus stand,
railway station, river, canal, stream, lake, reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or any
other places commonly used by the public;
“Recyclable waste” means by waste that can be used to produce new goods by changing their from in the process so that
they are no longer recognizable as waste;
“Reusable Waste” means waste that can be utilized after washing, disinfection  or cleaning by other means;
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri Lanka to
minimize the associated social, health and environmental impacts;

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1420
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types according to the categories used in these By-laws;
“Solid waste” means substances which have no consumer value to person who abandoned them and includes rubbish,
garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash;
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public collection
point;
“Transfer station” means any place  specified by the Council for this purpose where waste is transferred from smaller to
larger vehicles for the purposes of improving the transportation efficiency of the waste from the transfer station
to any recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facility;
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection point to processing, treatment, or disposal facilities using sum
form of human or animal mechanically powered vehicle;
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce the potential harm or damage they may cause to people or the
environment;
“Urban Council waste collector” means an employee engaged by the Council for sweeping, collection, receipt or removal
of waste from bins or receptacles or a person who has entered into a contract with the Council to perform such
duties.
10-767/3
BY –LAWS  RELATING   TO   ERADICATION  OF  MOSQUITOES  AND  DISEASE  INFLICTING  INSECTS  WITHIN
THE  URBAN  COUNCIL  AREA
SHAN Wijayalal De Silva, the Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply an d
Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Provincial Council,
do hereby rescind the  By-laws made by me relevant to the Eradication of Mosquitoes and Disease Inflicting insects within the U rban
Council area and published in Gazette No. 1766 dated 06.07.2012 and No. 1806 dated 12.04.2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
Further, the draft By-laws set-out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject of Local Government
under Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act,  No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act,  No. 12 of 1989 are hereby published.
Urban Councils are empowered by Paragraph ( b) and (c) of  Sub-Section (9) of Section 157 of the Urban Councils Ordinance
(Chapter 255) read with the Section 153 of the said Ordinance  to make By-laws of eradication of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects
and the Urban  Councils of Southern Province are empowered to adopt By-laws in accordance with the provisions of Sub-section 3 of the
Local Authority Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
SHAN WIJAY ALAL DE SILV A,
 Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport,
Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services,
Health and Indigenous Medicine and
Local Government, Southern Province.
Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government
Southern Provincial Council,
26th day of September, 2013.

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1421
BY-LAWS
1. These By-laws may be  cited as the By-laws for the improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of Authority
of Urban Council by the prevention of mosquioto breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding and for the prevention of
epidemics within such area of authority.
2. No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done withi the area of authority of any Urban Council which may cause the
breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other disease inflicting insects.
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises whether resident or non resident, within the area of authorit y
of a Urban Council to cause.
(a) Open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tires, coconut shells, split coconuts, and andy other article or receptacle or vess el
found within such premises to be removed or destroyed;
(b) Gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth flow of
water;
(c) all water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to be maintained in good repair, enclosed and covered so as to
make it mosquito-proof and insect proof and thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects;
(b) any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and
disease inflicting insects;
(e) any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to be emptied and cleaned at least once in every week;
(f) measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected in the drains found in such premises by allowing free flow of
water and with regular maintenance;
(g) shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation other than those grown for the purpose of food or for ornamental
purposes and found within a range of five loss meters from any building within such premises which is used as a dwelling
place, to be removed in entirety;
(h) all quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other pits with in such premises and used for any other purpose, to be
maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting collected in them;
(i) the removal and destruction of land grown ornamental plants and aquatic plant commonly known as ‘Diya parandel’,
“Penda pasi”, Telpasi or any other plants or aquatic plants found within such premises which may facilitate the breeding
of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects and prevention of the floating of such plants along any water course, by the
erection of suitable barriers;
(j) any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained and kept
in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes;
(k) take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other place
within such area.
4. The Chairman of the Urban Council or any officer authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day between 6 a.m. to
6 p.m. enter any premises within the area of authority of the Urban Council and inspect such premises to ensure the
following :—
(i) whether such premises is  a breeding place for mosquitoes;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied with the provisions of the by-laws;
(iii) where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding of and destroy the mosquitoes, what such measures are; and
(iv) whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises was a success.

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1422
5. (i) The Chairman or any officer authorized in writing for the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises, if necessary,
require the owner or occupier of such premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary to destroy the mosquitoes
and eradicate the conditions favourable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of  a premises to whom a written notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply with such
notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises shall without the written approval of the Chairman, construct any
well, bank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental showers, or any other structure where water can get collected or stored.;
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the provisions of paragraph (i) of this by law, the Chairman shall, by a written
notice served on the owner or occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such well, tank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental shower of structure with specified material or destroy otherwise or alter same in the manner specified in such
notice within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any notice under by law 5 or 6 may be either duly served by delivering it personally to the owner or occupier of the
premises or by affixing such notice in a conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession of any premises and if notice specified in by law 5 or by law 6 is
duly served on one of them, all the co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to comply with the requirements
of such notice or for non-performance of the reqirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom a written notice has been served under by law 5 or by law 6, fails
to comply with the requirements of such written notice, the Chairman or any officer authorized for the purpose by him in
writing may, enter such premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6 a.m. to 6 p. m. with any assistants or servants
and carry out or cause to be carried out the work or measures specified in such notice.
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises under by law
5 or by law 6 has been carried out by the Chairman or any officer authorized by him in writing, the expenses incurred in
carrying out such work shall be payable to the Urbanl Council by such owner or occupier of such premises. The owner or
occupier of the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date of a request under the hand of the Chairman for the
payment of such expenses, to the Urban Council and if he fails to make such payment as requested the provisions of the
Part IX of the Urban Councils Ordinance shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By laws shall be guilty of an offense as per the Urban Councils
Ordinance.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these by laws -
“authorized officer” shall mean any officer in a Urban Council authorized in writing by the Chairman of such Urban Council;
“Chairman” shall mean the Chairman of the Urban Council;
“disease inflicting insects” shall mean Mosquitoes and other insects which carries diseases.
“Occupier” shall mean a person in occupation of any premises or having the charge, management or control thereof, whether on
his own account or as an agent of any other;
“owner” shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or any person who has any right to the rent or produce of the premises;
“premises” shall mean, any land, house, building, or any construction, or any well, being used or abandoned or any abandoned
ship, container or vehicle and also includes any pond, tank or any bank or any lake, water course, drain or river.
10-767/4

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1423
THE  STANDARD  BY-LAWS  OF  SOLID  WASTE  MANAGEMENT
Proposed by Ministry of Local Government and Provincial Councils
SHAN Wijayalal De Silva, the Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply an d
Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Provincial Council, do
hereby rescind the standard By-Laws made by me relevant to the Solid Waste management within the Pradeshiya Sabha area and published
in Gazette No. 1766 dated 06.07.2012 and No. 1,806 dated 12.04.2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Further, the  draft by laws set-out below, frame by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject to Local Government under
Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard by-laws) Act, No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Council s
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 are hereby published.
Pradeshiya Sabhas are empowered by Section 93 and Paragraphs ( b) & (c) of Sub-section (IX) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 to make by-laws read with the Section 122 of the said Act, on Solid Waste Management and the Pradeshiy a
Sabhas of Southern Provicne are empowered to adopt the by-laws in accordance with the provision of Sub-section 3 of the Local
Authorities Standard by-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
S
HAN WIJAYALAL DE SILV A,
 Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport,
Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services,
Health and Indigenous Medicine and
Local Government, Southern Province.
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government
Southern Provincial Council,
26th day of September, 2013.
GENERAL
1. These By-laws are cited as By-laws relating to solid waste management.
2. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control of segregation, storage, collection, transportation,
operation and maintenance of transfer stations, processing, treatment and disposal of “solid waste” generated in public places,
private premises, at streets, thoroughfares within Pradeshiya Sabha Limits and all other incidental activities thereto.
3. Every owner or occupier of any premises situated within the Pradeshiya Sabha area shall keep the premises free of waste and
in a healthy and pleasant condition.
4. The owner or occupier of any premises situated within the area of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall collect, segregate, store, trans port
and remove the solid waste generated within the premises or cause to do so accordance with the provisions of these By-laws.
5. (i) Every owner or occupier of a premises shall collect solid waste generated within his own premises daily or in lesser inter vals
if required, by sweeping or using any other method.
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall segregate or cause to be segregated the waste collected in accordance with the preceding Sub-
section of this By-law in accordance with the provisions of By-laws No. 8 to 20.
(iii) Any bag, sack, bin of other receptacle used by the owner or occupier for the storage or discharge of waste put out for
collection under the provisions of By-laws 8 to 20 shall be maintained in good condition and not putout for collection, if
they are torn, punctured, broken or softened by prolonged exposure to moisture or if for any other reason, they are likely
to collapse or split when reasonably handled. Pradeshiya Sabha may provide such receptacles if they so wish subsidizing
the cost in part or in full according to a decision made by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iv) The owner or occupier shall dispose any waste collected in the manner provided in Sub-section (i) and in accordance with
the collection system and the time schedule, operated in a Pradeshiya Sabha area, as determined and publicly notified from
time to time by the Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1424
(v) The owner or occupier shall not collect, store or dispose of waste materials that are detrimental injuries or to health of
occupants, visitors or neighbors or to the sanitary conditions in that area.
6. (i) No person shall discharge waste to a street, road, thoroughfare, lane, avenue or any other public place or premises or a d rain
or a waterway, water reservoir or the sea.
(ii) No person shall burn waste by damaging the environment in an open space within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier fails to obtain permission in terms of the provisions of By-law No. 7 to discharge, treat,
process or dispose of any type of waste, he may hand over such waste to an authorized collector.
(iv) W aste not processed, treated or disposed of under the provisions of By-law No. 7 or any type of waste not collected by
an authorized collector under the provisions of (iii) above shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of By-law
Nos. 8 to 20.
7. (i) The owner or occupier of any premises may dispose the waste within such premises except -
(a) in area where disposal of such waste is prohibited by the Pradeshiya Sabha; or
(b) certain types of waste specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of any premises may burn waste in an incinerator or burner in such premises constructed in
accordance with a plan and standard approved by the Secretary, or treat, process or bury waste in the manner approved by
the Secretary.
(iii) Where any owner or occupier makes a request to the Secretary for “compost barrel” the Secretary may supply such
equipments subsidizing the cost in part or in full provided the owner occupier has sufficient space in the premises to
maintain the equipment.
(iv) The owner or occupier of any premises shall process or treat the garden waste collected within that premises in a manner
approved by the Secretary as far as practicable. Such owner or occupier shall hand over to Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector
any residual garden waste on payment of a fee specified as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time taking
into consideration the nature of the disposal waste, to the Secretary.
(v) Any person who cuts any part of a tree or plant by the road side of a street, thoroughfare shall remove them or cause them
to be removed forthwith.
(vi) Every person shall take steps to prevent any animal under his control to pass excreta in a street, thoroughfare or in a public
place. If excreta are passed, that person shall be responsible for cleaning  up the excreta and disposing of it in accordance
with By-law Nos. 8 to 20.
(vii) No person shall discharge or deposit any types of waste from a vehicle to a street, road, thoroughfare or public place within
the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(viii) Any applicant for construction or renovation of a house or any other premises shall include in his application details of
solid waste generated in his premises and the manner of storing, treating or processing of discharged material.
R
ESIDENTIAL PREMISES
8. (i) Every owner or occupier of premises shall segregate the wastes collected by sweeping or by any other menthod as
follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung.
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1425
(ii) Every owner or occupier shall put the segregated waste into separate bags, bins or other receptacles and place them in an
area reserved for this purpose until removal. Food waste and other bio-degradable waste shall be kept in a receptacle made
of an impermeable material which will be properly closed preventing the entry of rats, insects and animals. Waste of animal
carcasses, body parts or dung shall be handed over to a Municipal waste collector without delay following the payment of
a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the Pradeshiya Sabha area taking into
consideration the nature of the disposable waste.
(iii) Every occupier may handover to an authorized collector, types of waste specified in item (a) and (b) of paragraph (i). If the
occupier fails to do so, he shall together with the type of waste specified in item (c) hand over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste
collector or deposit in bins constructed for each waste type by the Pradeshiya Sabha, or in bins or other receptacles
provided by the Pradeshiya Sabha for such wastes.
9. (i) Every owner or occupier of each residence in a multi-storied building with a number of tenements, shall segregate their wa ste
as follows:
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) animal carcasses, body parts or dung;
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) The owner or occupier of a building specified in paragraph (i) shall provide three types of bins or receptacles in accordance
with standard and specifications approved by the Secretary and shall maintain them in a clean and sanitary condition.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of a building specified in Sub-section (i) fails to comply with the provisions of Sub-section (ii),
the Secretary has the power to require the owner or occupier of that building, to provide such bins or receptacles on or
before a  notified date by the Secretary and it is the duty of the owner or occupier to act in accordance with the requirements
of the Secretary.
(iv) Every owner or occupier of a floor or a storey shall put segregated waste into the appropriate bin or receptacle.
(v) It shall be the duty of an authorized collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) of
this By-law. Any such waste not removed, together with types of waste of type (e) shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya
Sabha waste collector.
10. (i) It is lawful for the Secretary to provide waste bins or receptacles for the use of shanty dwellers, after obtaining prior
approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) The owner or occupier of every shanty shall put all collected waste from his place of residence, segregated as follows, into
the nearest approved bins or receptacles supplied to his place of residence :
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(iii) The Secretary has the power to permit a waste collector to remove types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-
section (ii) of this By-law. Any such waste not removed together with types of waste of type (c) and (d) shall be handed
over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
S
HOPS AND OFFICES
11. (i) Every owner or occupier of a shop or office shall segregate waste collected in each complex as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1426
(ii) segregated waste shall be put into separate bins or receptacles and stored in a suitable place until removal.
(iii) The owner or occupier of a shop or an office may hand over types of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i)
of this By-law to an authorized waste collector.
(iv) The owner or occupier of a shopping or an office complex with several storey and floors shall provide the required number
of waste bins or receptacles for each shop or office in accordance with the standards approved by the Secretary for
depositing or collecting segregated waste from such shop or office.
(v) Any owner or occupier of a shop or office specified in Sub-section (iv) of this by-law shall put segregated waste into
separate bins or receptacles. Every owner or occupier has the right to hand over to an authorized waste collector, types of
waste specified in items (a) and (b) in Sub-section (i) of this By-law.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in Item (i) and any types of waste specified in Items (a) and (b) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law,
that are not collected by an authorized collector shall be handed over by the owner or occupier as the case may to a
Pradeshiya Sabha Waste Collector, following the payment of a fee to the Secretary by the owner or occupier as the case may
be as determined by the  Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(vii) It is the responsibility of each owner or occupier of any shop or office to remove waste and maintain waste bins or
receptacles specified in this  By-law so as not to cause any health hazard or sanitation problem to neighbors or persons
engaged in services in such shop or office.
(viii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires —
“Occupier” means the owner of a shop, or occupier or caretaker of a business or an office,
“Office” has the same meaning given in the  Shops and Office Employees Act, No. 19 of 1954 (Chapter 129),
“Shop” means a place where goods are kept for wholesale  or retail and includes a place where food or beverages are kept
for sale, and a place where a barber shop or beauty salon is operated.
H
OTELS
12. (i) Any hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall segregate waste collected at the premises or cause it to be
segregated as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste;
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall put in suitable bins or receptacles the segregated waste and
store in a suitable place until removal from the allotted space.
(iii) Every hotelier or any person authorized by him in writing shall pack in a bin or other receptacle made of plastic or metal
properly secured with a lid, all food waste and bio-degradable waste preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other
animal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) in Sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to authorized collector.
(v) Any such waste not handed over under Sub-section (iv) of this By-law and types of waste specified in Item (i) shall be
handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha Waste collector on payment of a fee by the owner or occupier to the Secretary as
determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time taking into consideration the nature of the waste.
(vi) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Hotel” means a place with or without sleeping
facilities where food of beverages or liquor are supplied for consumption on payment of money and it includes a restaurant,
guesthouse, lodging house, rest house, pilgrim’s rest, rice and curry boutique, cafeteria and any other premises in which a
business is carried out in a similar manner to a hotel.

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1427
VEGETABLE AND FRUIT STORES
13. (i) The owner or person in charge of every vegetable or fruit store shall segregate the waste collected within his own premis es
as follows :-
(a) vegetable, fruit or any other waste not suitable for human consumption;
(b) reusable and recyclable waste;
(c) hazardous waste
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) T ypes of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be kept in a separate receptacle made of
impermeable plastic or metal and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies, rats, insects or any other animals.
Other waste shall be put into any suitable bin or other receptacle.
(iii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waste not so handed over together with types of waste specified in item (c) and (d) of sub-section (i) of this
By-law shall be handed over to Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, on payment of a fee to the Secretary, as determined by
the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires “Vegetable and fruit store” means a place where
vegetable and fruit are stored and kept or exposed for sale.
M
EAT, FISH, POULTRY AND EGG STALLS
14. (i) No person shall slaughter any animal or bird other than those permitted under the provisions of the Butchers Ordnance in
terms of a license issued by the Secretary for that purpose, at the place specified therein.
(ii) Every license issued under Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall specify the type of animals or birds that can be slaughtered,
the manner in which the slaughter house shall be constructed and conditions relating to cleaning and removal of blood,
intestines and other parts not taken for human consumption and other condition the Pradeshiya Sabha may think fit.
(iii) The Secretary may charge a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time for the issue of a license under sub-
section (i) of this by-law payable at time of issue.
(iv) The owner or person who carried out the business of a stall for the sale of meat, fish or egg shall segregate their waste as
follows:-
(a) carcasses or parts of carcasses or eggs not suitable for human consumption
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(v) Segregated waste shall be placed in a separate bin or other receptacle types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section ( iv)
of this By-law shall be placed inside an impermeable receptacle and shall be secured properly, preventing the entry of flies,
rats, insects or any other animals so as to prevent pollution.
(vi) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of sub-section (iv) of this By-law, may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any such waste not handed over, together with type of waste specified in item (c) of sub-section (iv) of this
By-law, shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time before the spread of foul odor.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires “meat, fish or egg stall” means a place where such
items are stored for purpose of sale or kept or exposed for sale.
P
A VEMENT HAWKING
15. (i) A pavement hawker who carries out a business which generates waste shall keep a bin or other receptacle for such waste,
in accordance with the standards to be approved by the Secretary. Any such waste shall not be put on the pavement or
highway or in a public place.

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1428
(ii) No pavement hawker shall keep either a bin or other receptacle in such a way as to obstruct movement of vehicles or
pedestrian.
(iii) Every pavement hawker shall segregate waste generated by reason of his business as follows:-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(iv) Segregated waste shall be put into a separate bin or other receptacle. Types of waste specified in item (a) of sub-section (iii)
of this By-law that may be eaten by insects, rats of animals shall be placed inside a secured receptacle, which shall be kept
closed except when required to place additional waste inside.
(v) Every pavement hawker shall be handed over daily such types of waste as specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (iii)
of this by-law to an authorized collector or together with such types of waste as specified in item (c) of sub-section (iii)
of this By-law to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector. Receptacles with waste shall not be kept, on a pavement or roadside
or highway, when the business is not in operation.
(vi) Every pavement hawker shall pay a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time before waste bins or other
receptacles are handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector.
(vii) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Pavement hawker” means a person who sells goods
or provides a service on the pavement or roadside.
F
ACTORIES
16. (i) Every owner of a factory or a manufacturer shall collect waste generated by such factory within the factory premises and
segregate them as follows:-
(a) bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) of sub-section (i) of this By-law may be handed over to an authorized
collector. Any waste not so handed over, shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector, on a payment of a fee
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time, to the Secretary.
(iii) Hazardous waste shall be removed according to the conditions set out in the environmental Protection License issued under
the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980, for that business.
(iv) For the purpose of this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires, “Factory” has the same meaning as in the Factories
Ordinance No. 45 of 1942 (Chapter 128).
E
XCA V ATION, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION
17. (i) Every person who excavates any street road or any public place or constructs or demolishes, any structure shall store suc h
waste so generated within the premises or in a place approved by the Secretary until removal of such waste from such
premises in an appropriate manner.
(ii) The waste referred to in sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to a Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector on a
payment of a fee to the Secretary as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iii) In this By-law, unless the context otherwise requires -
“ For the purpose of this By-law, every person engaged in an act of excavation, construction or demolition” includes any
person engaged for such service by an employer,

<!-- page 35 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1429
“Waste” includes earth, mud, dust, waste generated in construction from the use of building materials and waste generated
during demolition of any construction.
18. (i) Any person who excavates any street, road or any public place for the purpose of providing gas, electricity, water,
telephone facilities or any other public amenities shall obtain prior approval from the Secretary.
(ii) The Secretary shall take into consideration the arrangements made by the applicant for  the removal of waste, the quantity
of waste that may be kept temporarily on the road or in a public place after completion of the proposed job, and the cost
of removal of such waste, if the applicant neglects to do so prior to giving approval under sub-section (i) the applicant shall
be required to pay a amount equivalent to the estimated cost as a deposit before approval is granted.
(iii) Where a person fails or neglects to remove the entire quantity of waste or a part thereof, such quantity of waste shall be
removed in a manner to be decided by the Secretary and the resulting expenditure incurred may be set off from the moneys
deposited under Sub-section (ii).
H
OSPITALS
19. (i) The owner of a hospital shall segregate or cause to be segregated waste generated within the premises as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste, excluding type of waste item (d) in this sub-section
(d) hazardous healthcare waste
(e) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) under sub-section (i) shall be deposited in separate receptacles and stored in
a suitable place until removal. Types of waste specified in items (c) and (d) of sub-section (i) shall be deposited in a bins
or any other receptacles specially made for that purpose, and kept in a place set apart for that purpose, and shall be
removed in accordance with the conditions set out in the  Environment Protection License issued to that hospital under the
National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980.
(iii) T ypes of waste specified in items (a) and (b) and (e) of sub-section (i) shall be handed over to an authorized collector or to
the Municipal waste collector, following the payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
(iv) In this by-law, unless the context otherwise requires -
“Hospital” means any premises (howsoever described) used or intended to be used for the reception, nursing and treatment
of persons or animals suffering from any illness or infirmity and includes a nursing home, clinic, medical centre,
medical laboratory, maternity home and veterinary hospital.
“Hazardous healthcare waste” means clinical waste, body parts, placentas, infectious and highly infectious waste and
sharps.
O
THER PREMISES
20. (i) Any person who carries out a business not specified in By-laws Nos. 8 to 19 or any person who organizes and operates
with the participation of the public, a religious, social, cultural or educational activity or due to maintenance of such an
establishment as follows :-
(a) food waste and other bio-degradable waste.
(b) reusable and recyclable waste.
(c) hazardous waste.
(d) dust and other dry waste collected after sweeping the premises.
(ii)  Any organizer of any activity specified in sub-section (i) shall inform the Pradeshiya Sabha in advance, so that special
arrangements may be made to collect the waste from such activity. In such cases, waste collection may be subject to a fee
as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.

<!-- page 36 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1430
(iii) Segregated waste shall be packed in separate receptacles and stores in a suitable place until removal.
(iv) T ypes of waste specified in items (a), (b) and (d) of Sub-section (i) of this By-law shall be handed over to an authorized
collector or to a Pradeshiya Sabha wasted collector, along with the type of waste specified in item (c) of Sub-section (i), on
payment of a fee as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
S
TREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES
21. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall take steps to
plan, supervise, control and administer the following—
(a) to maintain in a clean and sanitary condition, the streets, public places thoroughfare, public drains, watercourses and
public markets situated within the Pradeshiya Sabha area.
(b) to provide, fix and properly maintain a sufficient number of waste bins on  both sides of the streets or roads and in
all public places.
(c) to provide mobile waste bins for use in a public places, at festivals, special events or any other event as determined
by the Pradeshiya Sabha where the Pradeshiya Sabha decides to do so, or following a request from the organizers of
such festival on special events.
(d) to maintain in a sanitary condition, public waste bins or receptacles installed in residential areas and remove the
waste deposited therein before it becomes  a nuisance to nearby residents.
(e)  to investigate any complaint received in respect of the activities apecified in the preceding sections and take action
forthwith.
(ii) No person shall deposit household, commercial, institutional, industrial or other waste in any waste bin provided by the
Pradeshiya Sabha specifically for litter.
D
UTIES OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA
22. (i) The Secretary in consultation with the Chairman and subject to the approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall plan, supervise ,
control and administer following —
(a) to encourage people to reduce, reuse and recycle waste,
(b) to conduct awareness programs or propaganda through media in relation to segregation, collection, storage, discharge
and disposal of waste,
(c) to assist individuals and micro-enterprises engaged in reuse and recycling activities,
(d) to offer incentives to those involved in the reduction, reuse and recycle activities,
(e) to regulate different types of waste discharge system,
(f) to prepare a waste collection schedule, setting out collection days, times, methods and fees as determined by the
Pradeshiya Sabha for different types of waste in different areas of the Pradeshiya Sabha. This Schedule shall be
publicly notified by the Pradeshiya Sabha. It may include conditions for collection on public holidays,
(g) to collect any segregated waste, not hand over to authorized collectors separately, on time and according to Schedule,
(h) to transport, in a sanitary manner, hazardous waste and any other waste, that has not been handed over to authorized
collectors,
(i) to handover to an authorized collector waste collected from street sweeping, cleaning the drains and the cleaning the
public places, and waste collected from public bins and waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha labourers, except for
hazardous waste or other types of waste specified by the Secretary.

<!-- page 37 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1431
(j) to take appropriate measures to deal with segregated waste collected by Pradeshiya Sabha waste collectors, including
arrangement for the processing and treatment of part or all food and other bio-degradable, reusable and recyclable
waste as much as practicable and to dispose of the rejects from such operations and other residual waste or these
types in a manner, approved by the Secretary,
(k) to dispose of all hazardous waste in a manner approved by the Secretary, in consultation with the Central Environmental
Authority,
(l) to obtain a license or environmental protection license in accordance with the provisions of the National Environment
Act, No. 47 of 1980 and subject to the conditions specified in the license or environmental protection license to burn
waste or to maintain a sanitary landfill,
(m) to provide appropriate clothing, hand gloves, mouth covers and boots to every employee engaged in sweeping,
collection, segregation, transportation, transfer and disposal of waste,
(n) to check and approved details of the manner of disposal of solid waste generated on construction or renovation and
the manner of storage, process and disposal of rubble and the initial stage and on the completion of the specified
works where an application is submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha for the construction or renovation of a house or
other premises.
(o) to prepare an internal Waste Management Plan for all Pradeshiya Sabha premises.
(p) to prepare and implement a Solid Waste Management Action Plan in accordance with the National Strategy of Solid
Waste Management and relevant legislation which covers at least each calendar year in detail and three years ahead for
final disposal and such plan shall be approved annually on a less frequent basis by the Pradeshiya Sabha, according
to the period it covers,
(q) to investigate any complaint received by the Chairman and the Secretary regarding the activities referred to in items
(a) to (p) within three days for any possible nuisance and within fourteen days for any other complaint and  take
action forthwith.
P
ERMITS
23. (i) The Pradeshiya Sabha may issue a permit to any person who re-uses or recycles waste material or manufactures compost,
biogas or any other product where any person -
(a) carries out any business within the Pradeshiya Sabha area or in any other local authority area, in terms of the By-laws
as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(b) possesses an Environmental Protection License, issued in accordance with the provisions of the National Environment
Act, No. 47 of 1980,
(c) Storage place for collected waste constructed in accordance with the standards approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha,
(d) provides vehicles for transportation of collected waste in a sanitary manner as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha
and without causing nuisance to people,
(e) agrees to handover to residual or reject waste or any other waste created as by-products during processing or
treatment, to the Pradeshiya Sabha as approved by the Pradeshiya Sabha on payment of a fee the Secretary for
collection of such waste as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time , where the business is carried out
within the Pradeshiya Sabha Limits.
(ii) Where the Pradeshiya Sabha refuses or rejects to issue a permit, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the reasons
for such refusal or rejection within thirty days of receipt of the application for the permit.
(iii) The Secretary shall indicate in the permit, the period of validity, the type or types of waste permitted to be collected, the
permitted area for collection of such waste and any other appropriate conditions.

<!-- page 38 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1432
(iv) The Secretary shall revoke the permit issued under this By-law in the event of non-compliance of the provisions of
subsection (i) of this By-law.
(v) No person shall collect or receive waste when a permit is revoked under the provision of sub-section (iv) In such event the
Secretary shall give sufficient publicity thorough media in order to bring awareness to the people of the revocation of such
permit.
W
ASTE DISPOSAL AREAS
24. No unauthorized person shall enter loiter, deposit, disturb or remove any article, material or refuse from a waste disposal area
reserved by the Pradeshiya Sabha for that purpose no deposit any prohibited refuse which the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time may stipulate unless authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha subject to certain specified conditions.
25. No person shall provides, operate or use any land or facility for the deposit of waste originating from a place outside the land
or facility within the Pradeshiya Sabha limits except with the prior written approval of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the Central
Environmental Authority subject to any conditions of approval.
O
THER
26. (i) The Secretary or any person authorized by him in writing shall have the power, at all reasonable times to enter any premi ses
and inspect as to whether the owner or occupier acts in conformity with the provisions of these By-laws.
(ii) The owner, occupier, caretaker, manager, or any person residing or serving in that premises shall furnish the information
required by the Secretary or any authorized officer.
(iii) No person shall obstruct the Secretary or an authorized officer or assistant authorized officer in the exercise of his powers
under these By-laws.
27. Any authorized officer or any assistant authorized officer who implements and enforce these By-laws may be offered
incentives according to the decisions made by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time.
28. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guilty of an offence as per the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
INTERPRETATION
29. For the purpose of these by-laws, unless context otherwise requires -
“Authorized Collector” means a person who obtains a permit from the Secretary to collect or receive waste under the
provision of these by-laws.
“Authorized Officer” means any person who has been authorized in writing by the Secretary to execute or carry out such
duties under these By-laws.
“Bin or other receptacles” means any bin, sack, bag, or other container used for waste storage, discharge, collection or
transportation that complies with the requirements set out in these by laws,
“Bio-degradable waste” means waste that may be degraded or decomposed by micro-organisms.
“Collection” means the receipt of waste by an authorized collector or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector for transportation
for refusing, recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facilities,
“Secretary” means in relation  to any Pradeshiya Sabha, means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha constituted under the
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 for that Pradeshiya Sabha  and any person appointed to act as such
Secretary or any officer of such Pradeshiya Sabha empowered by or under this Act to exercise, perform or
discharge any of the powers, duties or functions of the Secretary to the extent to which such officer is so
empowered,

<!-- page 39 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1433
“Compost” means the final product of the bio degradation of waste by micro organism and it is a humus that could be
functioned as soil conditioner.
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means ....................Pradeshiya Sabha,
“Pradeshiya Sabha Area”  means the area declared under the authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987.
“Discharge” means where part or all of the waste produced by a person or premises and put out for collection either within
or outside their premises or given to authorized collectors or Pradeshiya Sabha waste collectors,
“Disposal” means the placement of all waste that is neither re-used, recycled, processed or treated, on or in land where it
is intended to stay permanently,
“Fee” means some fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha from time to time,
“Food Waste’ means all meat, fish, eggs, vegetables, fruits and other edible materials that cannot be used for consumption,
“Garden Waste” means parts removed from trees or plants in a home garden or stones soil etc removed from a home garden,
“Hazardous Waste’ means waste that is poisonous, corrosive, combustible, reactive, radioactive or infectious in nature,
“Owner or occupier” includes the owner of the premises or any person who holds power of attorney on behalf of the
owner or an agent or caretaker appointed to manage the industry, factory, estate by the owner or recipient of rent
and does not include a manager who acts under the order of another person,
“Pradeshiya Sabha waste collector” means an employee engaged by the Pradeshiya Sabha for sweeping, collection, receipt
or removal of waste from bins or receptacles or a person who has entered into a contract with the Pradeshiya Sabha
to perform such duties.
“Public Place” means a road, ground, public land, road reservation, playground, public building, cemetery, bus stand,
railway station, river, canal, stream, lake, reservoir, pond, pool, lagoon, tributary, waterway, sea, beach or any
other places commonly used by the public,
“Recyclable waste” means by waste that can be used to produce new goods by changing their form in the process so that
they are no longer recognizable as waste,
“Reusable Waste” means waste that can be utilized after washing, disinfection  or cleaning by other means,
“Sanitary landfill” means the final disposal of waste in a ground in accordance with the accepted standards in Sri Lanka to
minimize the associated social, health and environmental impacts,
“Segregation” means separating waste into different types according to the categories used in these By-laws.
“Solid waste” means substances which have no consumer value to person who abandoned them and includes rubbish,
garbage, litter, street sweepings, drain cleanings, dust, soil, mud and ash,
“Storage” means keeping waste within the premises of an owner or occupier or placing it at an approved public collection
point.
“Transfer station” means any placed specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha for this purpose where waste is transferred from
smaller to larger vehicles for the purposes of improving the transportation efficiency of the waste from the
transfer station to any recycling, processing, treatment or disposal facility
“Transport” means transporting waste from the collection point to processing, treatment, or disposal facilities using sum
form of human or animal mechanically powered vehicle,
“Treat” means taking any steps or processes to reduce the potential harm or damage they may cause to people or the
environment.
10-767/5

<!-- page 40 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1434
BY   LAWS  RELATING   TO   ERADICATION  OF  MOSQUITOES  AND  DISEASE  INFLICTING  INSECTS  WITHIN
THE  PRADESHIYA  SABHA   AREA
SHAN Wijayalal De Silva, the Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport, Water Supply an d
Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine and Local Government of the Southern Provincial Council,
do hereby rescind the By-Laws made by me relevant to the Eradication of Mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects within the Pradeshiya
Sabha area and published in Gazette No. 1766 dated 06.07.2012 and No. 1806 dated 12.04.2013 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
Further, the draft By-laws set-out below, framed by me as the Provincial Minister in-charge the subject to Local Government
under Section (2) of the Local Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act,  No. 6 of 1952, read with the Section (2) of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act,  No. 12 of 1989 are hereby published.
Pradeshiya Sabhas are empowered by Paragraph (o) of  Sub-Section (9) of Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 1987 read
with the Section 122 of the said Act to make By-laws of Eradication of Mosquitoes and Disease Inflicting Insects and the Prades hiya
Sabhas of Southern Province are empowered to adopt by-laws in accordance with the provisions of Sub-section 3 of the Local Authority
Standard By-laws Act, No. 6 of 1952.
SHAN WIJAY ALAL DE SILV A,
 Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Transport,
Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity, Engineering Services,
Health and Indigenous Medicine and
Local Government, Southern Province.
Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Transport, Water Supply and Drainage, Electricity,
Engineering Services, Health and Indigenous Medicine
and Local Government,
Southern Provincial Council,
Galle.
26th day of September, 2013.
By-Laws
1. These By-law may be cited as the By-laws for the improvement of the environmental conditions within the area of Authority
of Pradeshiya Sabha by the prevention of mosquito breeding and disease inflicting insect breeding and for the prevention of
epidemics within such area of authority.
2. No person shall do any act or cause any act to be done within the area of authority of any Pradeshiya Sabha which may cause
the breeding of or facilitating the breeding of mosquitoes or any other disease inflicting insects.
3. It shall be the duty of every owner or occupier of any premises whether resident or non resident, within the area of authorit y
of a Pradeshiya Sabha  to cause—
(a) Open tins, bottles, boxes, plastic cans, tires, coconut shells, split coconuts, and any other article or receptacle or vessel
found within such premises to be removed or destroyed;
(b) Gutters, down pipes and drains within such premises to be cleared of any obstructions so as to ensure smooth flow of
water;
(c) all water closets, tanks and other receptacles for water to be maintained in good repair, closed and covered so as to make
it mosquito-proof and insect proof and thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects;
(b) any well found in such premises to be maintain and kept in good repair thereby prevent the breeding of mosquitoes and
disease inflicting insects;
(e) any artificial pond or pool found in such premises to be emptied and cleaned at least once in every week;

<!-- page 41 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1435
(f) measures shall be taken to prevent water getting collected in the drains found in such premises by allowing free flow of
water and with regular maintenance;
(g) shrubs, undergrowth and all other types of vegetation other than those grown for the purpose of food or for ornamental
purposes and found within a range of five loss meters from any building within such premises which is used as a dwelling
place, to be removed in entirety;
(h) all quarries, abandoned gem pits, clay pits or any other pits with in such premises and used for any other purpose, to be
maintained in a manner so as to prevent water getting collected in them;
(i) the removal and destruction of land grown ornamental plants and aquatic plant commonly known as “Diya parandel”,
“Penda pasi”, Telpasi or any other plants or aquatic plants found within such premises which may facilitate the breeding
of mosquitoes and disease inflicting insects and prevention of the floating of such plants along any water course, by the
erection of suitable barriers;
(j) any latrine, ditch, sewage, cess-pit or sealed pits found in such premises and its surroundings to be maintained and kept
in good repair so as to make it mosquito proof and prevent the breeding of mosquitoes;
(k) take necessary measures to prevent water getting collected in the monuments built in cemeteries or in any other place
within such area.
4. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha  or any officer authorized in writing by him may, at any time of the day between 6 a.m.
to 6 p.m. enter any premises within the area of authority of the Pradeshiya Sabha and inspect such premises to ensure the
following :—
(i) whether such premises is  a breeding place for mosquitoes;
(ii) Whether the occupier of such premises has complied with the provisions of the By-laws;
(iii) where measures have to be taken to prevent the breeding of and destroy the mosquitoes, what such measures are; and
(iv) whether the spraying of insecticides in the premises was a success.
5. (i) The Chairman or any officer authorized in writing for the purpose by him may, after inspecting the premises, if necessary,
require the owner or occupier of such premises by written notice, to adopt measures necessary to destroy the mosquitoes
and eradicate the conditions favorable for the breeding of mosquitoes.
(ii) The owner or occupier of  a premises to whom a written notice was given under paragraph (i) shall, comply with such
notice within the period specified in such notice.
6. (i) No person who is the owner or occupier of any premises shall without the written approval of the Chairman, construct any
well, bank, pond, water receptacle, ornamental showers or any other structure where water can get collected or stored.;
(ii) Where any construction is done contrary to the provisions of paragraph (i) of this by law, the Chairman shall, by a written
notice served on the owner or occupier of such premises, require him to fill up such well, tank, pond, water receptacle,
ornamental shower of structure with specified material or destroy otherwise or alter same in the manner specified in such
notice within the period specified in such notice.
7. (i) Any notice under by law 5 or 6 may be either duly served by delivering it personally to the owner or occupier of the
premises or by affixing such notice in a conspicuous place in such premises.
(ii) Where, more than two co-owners are in joint possession of any premises and if notice specified in by -law 5 or by-law 6
in duly served on one of them, all the co-owners are jointly and severally liable for failing to comply with the requirements
of such notice or for non-performance of the requirement of such notice.
(iii) Where the owner or occupier of any premises on whom a written notice has been served under by-law 5 or by -law 6, fails
to comply with the requirements of such written notice, the Chairman or any officer authorized for the purpose by him in writing
may, enter such premises at any reasonable time of the day between 6 a.m. to 6 p. m. with any assistants or servants and carry
out or cause to be carried out the work or measures specified in such notice.

<!-- page 42 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'10'25
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2013
1436
(iv) Where any work or measures specified in a written notice served on any owner or occupier of any premises under by law
5 or by law 6 has been carried out by the Chairman or any officer authorized by him in writing, the expenses incurred in
carrying out such work shall be payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha by such owner or occupier of such premises. The owner
or occupier of the premises shall, within fourteen days from the date of a request under the hand of the Chairman for the
payment of such expenses make such payments to the Pradeshiya Sabha  and if he fails to make such payment as
requested the provisions of the part VIII of the Pradeshiya Sabhaa Act, shall be applicable.
8. Any person who contravenes of any provision of these By-laws shall be guildy of an offense as per the Pradeshiya Sabhas  Act.
9. Unless the context otherwise requires, in these By-laws -
“authorized officer” shall mean any officer in a Pradeshiya Sabhas  authorized in writing by the Chairman of such Pradeshiya
Sabhas ;
“chairman” shall mean the Chairman of the .......................Pradeshiya Sabhas ;
“disease inflicting insects” shall mean Mosquitoes and other insects which carries diseases;
“occupier” shall mean a person in occupation of any premises or havng the charge, management or control thereof, whether on
his own account or as an agent of any other;
“owner” shall mean any owner or lessee of a premises or any person who has any right to the rent or produce of the premises;
“premises” shall mean, any land, house, building or any construction, or any well, being used or abandoned or any abandoned
ship, container or vehicle and also includes any pond, tank or any bank of any lake, water course, drain or river.
10-767/6
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.