

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2727
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2720 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"356 – 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'10'27
No. 2,356  –  fRiday,  octobER 27, 2023
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17
th November, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd November, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2717 - b 082508 - 5,403 (10/2023)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2718
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2719
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2720
Posts - v acant 
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ' S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths – Sinhala medium
coLoMbo diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths for the divisions set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of births and deaths division and entitled to 
reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and 
influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both Male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala Language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) Examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other 
similar examination.
 N. B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one Subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
05. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensure respect of the post 
and enable easy access by all or majority of residents.
 Under circumstances where there is no adequate office facilities provided within the hospital premises, recruited 
candidate for post of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, should be able to establish his/her office at a suitable 
building located in the close proximity within 01 k.m. from the Hospital.
06. additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari division of the relevant division of births and deaths, 
relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in 
public places within the division such as district secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the 
schedule hereunder.
07. Relevant application and the said "annex - 01" inclusive of village name list/Grama Niladhari division could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
department.
08. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 27.11.2023 by registered post to the address given in the 
schedule.
   W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
   Registrar General,
Registrar General's department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla.
on this 09 day of october, 2023.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2721
ScHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
colombo colombo Post of births and deaths 
Registrar of fort division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, colombo.
colombo thimbirigasyaya Post of births and deaths 
Registrar of National Hospital 
1 division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, colombo
colombo Ratmalana Post of births and deaths 
Registrar of Ratmalana, Mount 
Lavinia division,
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, colombo
10-330
REGISTRAR  GENERAL 'S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages (kandyan/General) – Sinhala medium
KURUNEGaLa diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages for the divisions 
set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient 
interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both Male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the applications. 
(Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than two (02) sittings in GcE (o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
 N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE (O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as one 
subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the post 
and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as village name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society offices 
and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2722
08. Relevant application and the said "annex – 01" inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General's 
department.
09. Dully filled applications should be forwarded on or before 27
th  of November 2023 by registered post to the address 
given in the schedule.
W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
Registrar General,
on this 11 day of october, 2023
Registrar General's department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla.
ScHEdULE
District Divisional Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kurunegala Kurunegala Post of births and deaths Registrar 
of thiragandahaya West division 
and Post of marriages (Kandyan/
General) Registrar of Weudawilli 
Hathpaththuwa division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kurunegala
10-413
mINISTR y Of WOmEN , ChILD  Aff AIRS  AND  SOCIAL  EmPOWERmENT
DEPARTmENT  Of SOCIAL  SER vICES
v ocational Instructor (Grade III)
MatRoN (GRadE  iii)
Applications are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the qualifications stipulated here under for the recruitment 
to be made for  2 Posts of V ocational instructors and 1 Post  of Matron for the V ocational training centre  for the Persons 
with disabilities, which has been initiated in the district of Kilinochchi  of the department of Social Services. Prepared 
applications according to the format given at the end of this notification should be sent by registered post to the Director, 
department of Social Services, Second floor, Sethsiripaya Stage ii, battaramulla to reach before the 30. 11. 2023. the top 
left hand corner of the envelope should clearly carry the words “Recruitment to the Posts of V ocational instructor (Grade 
iii) / Matron (Grade iii)” Specimen application form and details could  also be obtained through the web site; www.
socialservices.gov.lk   
Qualifications for the recruitment of this post : -
1. v ocational Instructor (Dressmaking/ Sewing technique, Information Technology) 
   1.1 age Limit : -
 the age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years to the closing date of the applications.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2723
    1.2 Educational Qualifications: -
      (a) Educational Qualifications for V ocational instructor (Sewing technique, information technology ) 
 (i)  Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)  Examinational with 06 
subjects including 4 credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/ Language,  Mathematics and other two subjects 
and
  and
 (ii) Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination with all subjects 
under any subject stream (Excluding Common General Test) and obtained the required achievement 
level for following a tertiary  educational program
 1.3 Professional  Qualifications :-
  Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course from  the ceylon 
technical college   or the ceylon-German technical training institute
 or
Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course from the department 
of Small industries or t he department of textile industries  
or
Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course conducted by the 
Department of Social Services or the National Youth Service Council or the affiliated institutions
 or
Should be obtained a certificate of two year duration or more on the relevant vocational course conducted by the 
V ocational Training Authority or the affiliated institutions
or
 Should be obtained a certificate having successfully followed a relevant technical  course recognized by a 
the tertiary and V ocational Education commission to be included into the National V ocational Qualifications 
(NVQ) level five (05) or a similar course recognized by a the tertiary and V ocational Education commission
 1.4 Experiences : 
Not applicable
   1.5 Physical Qualifications   : 
all the applicants should be of excellent physical and mental character to perform the duty at any part of Sri 
Lanka.
 1.6 other:-
 i  the applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ii Should be of excellent character 
 iii. All the qualifications required to the recruitment to the post  from 1.1 to 1.6 should be fulfilled to the date 
on which the notification/ Gazette  for calling applications mentioned

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2724
 1.7 Recruitment Procedure:-
candidates will be recruited on the basis of the merit at the written and professional test. the written test will be 
held at first. A number equal to two times existing vacancies will be called for the general interview from among 
the candidates who obtained highest marks at the written test. Those who are qualified from the general interview 
only will be forwarded to the professional test.  the candidates equal to the number of vacancies are selected 
to the training course on the basis of the aggregate marks scored at both written test and professional test .the 
Selected candidates should be obtained a certificate following the successful completion of the 3 months training 
course on the teaching methods. Only the candidates who obtain the certificates in the manner described above 
will be recruited.   
1.7.1. Written Examination :-
Subjects time total Marks Pass marks 
intelligence test 01 hour 100 40%
comprehension 01 hour 100 40%
 1.8. Salary Scale :-
Mt- 01 -2016, in terms of P ac. 03/2016,  
Salary Scale  Rs. 29, 840-10x300-11x350-10x560-10x660-Rs. 48,890/- 
 1.9. Regulations on Employment :
This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected candidates will be subjected to the policy decision taken by 
the Government in the future with regard to the method of pension which is entitled to them and it is required to 
contribute to the widows’/ widowers’ and orphans’ Pension fund. in accordance with the Public administration 
circular No. 1/2014 and other circulars incidental thereto, those who are appointed to the post should be acquire 
proficiency in the prescribed official language within five (5) from the date of appointment.  
 1.10. Note
 • The Written test will be held in Colombo by an institution decided by the Director of Social Services. 
   • Only candidates who have fulfilled the above qualifications should apply and the selected candidates will be 
eligible for annual transfer only after five years of compulsory service in the institution with the respective 
vacancies.
2. matron (01) 
 2.1 age Limit :- 
 the age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years to the closing date of the applications 
 2.2  Education Qualifications :-
    (a) Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)  Examinational with six 06 subjects 
including 4 credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics and other two subjects and
          (b) Should have passed General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination minimum of one 
subject  under any subject stream (Excluding Common General Test) 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2725
 2.3.  Professional Qualifications :-
Having completed a course of not less than three months in child development or Social Work or Hostel 
Management from a government registered institution and obtained a certificate
 2.4  Experience :-
  Not applicable 
      2.5 Physical Qualifications   : 
all the applicants should be of excellent physical and mental character to perform the duty at any part of   Sri 
Lanka.
 2.6. other :- 
  i  the applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ii Should be of excellent character 
 iii. All the qualifications required to the recruitment to the post  from 2.1 to 2.6 should be fulfilled to the date 
on which the notification/ Gazette  for calling applications mentioned
 2.7  Recruitment Procedure :-
candidates equal to the exiting vacancies will be recruited on the basis of the maximum marks obtained for two 
written papers. 
2.7.1 Written test :-
 i. intelligence test  -  t ime 01 Hour,  t otal Marks 100,  Pass Marks 40% 
 II. Language Proficiency - Time 01 Hour, Total Marks 100,  Pass Marks 40%
 2.8. Salary Scale :-
MN 01 -2016 in accordance with  03/2016 
Salary Scale -  Rs. 27,140-10X300-11X350-10X495-10X660-Rs. 45,540. 
 2.9. Regulations on Employment:-
This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected candidates will be subjected to the policy decision taken by 
the Government in the future with regard to the method of pension which is entitled to them and it is required to 
contribute to the widows’/ widowers’ and orphans’ Pension fund. in accordance with the Public administration 
circular No. 1/2014 and other circulars incidental thereto, those who are appointed to the post should be acquire 
proficiency in the prescribed official language within five (5) from the date of appointment.  
 2.10. Note 
• The Witten test will be held in Colombo by an institution decided by the Director of Social Services.   
• Only candidates who have fulfilled the above qualifications should apply and the selected candidates will be eligible 
for annual transfer only after five years of compulsory service in the institution with the respective vacancies.
     
 Anoja Herath,
 director of Social Services. 
department of Social Services 
2 floor 
Stage ii
Sethsiripaya
battaramulla .
16.10.2023

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2726
 Application form for the recruitment to the post of .........................
Medium of Language 
                    
 01. Name with initials :- .  …………………………………………………………………………………………
 02. Name denoted by initials :-  ……………………………………………………………………………………
 03. address : -  ……………………………………………………………………………………………………
 04. t elephone  Number  : -  .  ………………………………………………………………………………………
 05. National  identity card Number : -    …………………………………………………………………………
 06. date of birth : -  .  ………………………………………………………………………………………………
 07. age  as at the closing date of the applications : - age  : - ……………  Months : - …………days : - ………
 08. Marital Status  : -   ……………………………………………………………………………………………
 09. Sex :-   …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 10. Education Qualifications :
1.   G. c. E. (ordinary Level )   
       y ear :-  ....................    Examination Number : - …………………
Subjects Grades Subjects Grades
Mathematics 
Sinhala/ t amil / 
English 
 ii. G. c. E. (advanced  Level )  
        year  : -  .................... Examination Number : - …………………  
Subjects Grades Subjects Grades

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2727
 11. Professional and other qualifications  : - 
Name of the Course Institute Duration of the 
Course 
 12. Experiences  : - 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
 i herewith certify that the information furnished by me in this application  is true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge.  
 ……………………………………
 Signature of applicant.
10-431
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
LImITED   COmPETITIvE   ExAmINATION   fOR  RECRuITmENT   Of  OffICERS   IN ThE  
PubLIC   SERvICE  TO  ThE  POST  Of  AuDIT  OffICER   Of  ThE  AuDIT  ExAmINERS ’ 
SERvICE  -2023
a  limited competitive examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations to select suitable 
candidates from the candidates over 40 years of age currently in the Public Service for the posts of Audit Officer of the Audit 
Examiners’ Service, limited for this occasion only.  applications are invited from the candidates possessing the required 
qualifications as stated in this notification. 
Date of examination- the examination will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations in colombo in January 
2024.  the auditor General reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination.
1. The number of persons to be appointed and the effective date of appointments will be determined by the Auditor 
General. The Auditor General reserves the right to refrain from filling any or all of the vacancies.
2. Service Conditions - 
 (i) The selected candidates will be appointed to the post of Audit Officer of the Audit Examiners’ Service on 
the general conditions governing the appointments of the Public Service published at the beginning of 
the Paragraph ii (b) of Part i of the ordinary Gazette, conditions set out in the Service Minute of audit 
Examiners’ Service published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 380/61 dated 20th december 1985 of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and subjected to amendments made or to be made hereafter to the 
said Minute and subject to the terms included in the Cabinet decision related to the CP/23/0386/605/012-1  
dated 08th March 2023 regarding “Review of Recruitment Procedure of the Public Service”. 
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable. in terms of Public administration circular No.21/2017, you shall be 
subjected to a policy decision which should be taken by the Government in future on the pension scheme to 
which you are entitled. further, you shall make contributions to the Widows’ and orphans’ / Widowers’ and 
orphans’ Pension Scheme. you shall make your contributions in such manner determined from time to time 
by the Government. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2728
 (iii)  the successful candidates will be appointed to this service on probation for a period of three years from the 
date of appointment.
 (iv) Confirmation at the end of their probationary period of successful candidates competing in this Examination 
will be inter-alia depend on :
 (a) Satisfactory work, attendance and conduct.
 (b) Passing of Efficiency Bar Examination before the end of probation period.
 (v) He/ She will be reinstated in the preceding service or his/ her Service will be terminated in terms of the 
procedural rules if he/she fails to secure confirmation at the end of the probationary period.
 (vi) In terms of Public Administration Circular No.18/2020 dated 16 October 2020, proficiency of official 
language should be acquired. 
 (vii) Selected officers should serve in any part of the Island.
 (viii) This appointment will be subjected to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, the 
Establishments code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Government financial Regulations, 
orders and Regulations that may be issued by the Government from time to time and the circulars, instructions 
and Orders that may be issued by the National Audit Office from time to time. 
3. Salary Scale - The consolidated salary scale relating to the post of Audit Officer of the Audit Examiners’ Service 
according to the Code No. AS-01 assigned to the Audit Staff of the National Audit Office by the National Salaries 
commission in terms of the Salary codes in the Public administration circular No.03/2016 is, Rs. 36,585-10x660-
11x755-15x930- Rs. 65,440/-. 
4. health and Discipline - The candidate must satisfy the Auditor General that he/she is duly qualified in respect of 
health and an excellent moral character.  the candidate must be of sound constitution, possessed of good sight and 
physically qualified for service in any part of the Island.  
5. Qualifications ;
all candidates should:
 i. be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 II. Be not less than 22 years and not more than 40 years of age for the officers in the Management Service 
Officers’ Service and officers in the Development Officers Service in the Public Service/ Provincial Public 
Service as at 24
th  November 2023. (accordingly, only the persons whose birthdays fall on or before 
24.11.2001 and on or after 24.11.1983 are eligible to apply.)
 III. Have an excellent moral character and must be of sound constitution;
 IV . Have obtained one of the following qualifications ;
 (a) Should be a Graduate of a recognized University or have obtained equivalent qualification;
 or
 (b) Should have passed the Examination of Licentiate or intermediate of the institute of chartered 
accountants in Sri Lanka.
 or 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2729
 (c) Should have passed the Higher National diploma in accountancy / commerce of technical college 
of Sri Lanka/ Sri Lanka institute of advanced technological Education.
 V .  No member of clergy of any religion will be permitted to apply for this post.
Note : The candidates who compete for this examination should be able to produce certificates of their 
educational and professional qualifications, immediately at the request of the Auditor General. Applications 
submitted on pending results will not be entertained.
Note. - A candidate will be deemed to have qualified only if he / she has;
(a) Successfully completed in every respects the examination or examinations required to pass at 
closing date of applications and; 
(b) Submitted at the interview, an official certificate or any official document on behalf of the said 
certificate or the qualifications that can be accepted by the Auditor General.
6.  Examination fee - Rs. 1200/-. Payment of examination fee should be made only by the following methods, 
provided by the online system. 
 i. any bank credit card
 ii. any debit cards with the facility of internet transactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon.
 iV . any branch of bank of ceylon
Note:-
(a) instructions on the manner of payment under the above methods are given in the website under 
the technical instructions for the examination.
(b) Payment will be acknowledged by a SMS or an e-mail. the full payment of the examination fee 
should be made and applications for which less or more payments were made will be rejected. 
the department of Examinations will not be responsible for the defects in the payment of 
examination fees by the aforesaid methods.
(c) the examination fees paid will not be refunded fully or partly in any circumstances or 
transferred for another examination.
7. method of Application ;
(a) the application for the said post has been published under the ‘online application – 
Recruitment Exam’ under our services on www.doenets.lk  website of the department of Examinations 
and, applications should be submitted only through the online system. acceptance of online applications 
opened at 9.00 a.m. on 27
th  October 2023.
   
(b) Online applications should be completed only in the English Language. Before filling the online 
application, download the instructions leaflet, prepared to apply for the examination. These instructions 
should be followed strictly when filling out the application. Any amendment made in the application after 
receipt of hard copy will not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected 
without a notice.
(c) the closing date for receiving applications ends at 12.00 mid night on 24
th  November 2023.
(d) the applicant is responsible for the accuracy of all information mentioned in the examination application. 
Applications which are not completed in every aspect will be rejected.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2730
(e) application will be acknowledged via an SMS to the mobile phone number which  used to access to the 
system . A notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations Sri Lanka 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is not received, steps 
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. 
Such applicants should clearly mention the applicant’s full name, National identity card number, the 
address and the name of the examination they applied for and inquire the department of Examinations. if 
the applicant lives outside Colombo, it will be more effective to inquire the Department of Examinations 
with a request letter mentioning your fax number to send a copy of the Examination admission. 
8. Entering to the examination;
(i) With the presumption that only the candidates fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification 
have applied for the Examination, admissions shall be issued by the online only by the commissioner 
General of Examinations to the candidates within the age limit and who have submitted duly perfected 
applications along with the receipt issued after paying the Examination fee on or before the closing date 
of applications.  a candidate must sit for the examination at the examination centre assigned to him.  
Every candidate should submit the admission card with the candidate’s authenticated signature to the 
supervisor on the first day presenting himself for the examination. A candidate who fails to produce his 
admission card will not be permitted to sit for the examination.
(ii) a  set of rules to be followed by all candidates is published in this  Gazette.
(iii) the issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite 
qualification to sit for the examination or for a post.
(iv) applicants will be liable to rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examination 
in relevant to conducting examination and issuance of results. if in case of violation of such rules and 
regulations, he/she will be liable to any penalty imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations.
Note - issuance of an admission to the candidate does not necessarily mean that he/ she has the requisite 
qualifications mentioned in this notification to sit for the examination or to hold the post.
9. Identification of the Candidates-
a candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each 
subject he or she appears.  For this purpose, only the following documents will be accepted.
 I.  The National Identity Card;
 II. A Valid Passport;
 iii. a  Valid Sri Lankan driving License.
also, the candidates should expose their identity without covering their face and ears when they enter the 
examination hall. applicants who are unable to prove the identity will not be allowed to enter the examination 
hall. further, the applicants should remain with their faces and ears uncovered till they leave the examination 
hall, enabling the examination authorities to identify the applicant.
10. furnishing false Information -
if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his or her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, 
during or after the examination.  
11. In case of need, matters not mentioned in this notification will be dealt with as decided by the Auditor General.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2731
12.  method of Examination -
 (a) the examination will be held in Sinhala, t amil and English mediums.
 (b) a  candidate should sit for the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying examination 
or an official language.
 (c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying examination in two or more languages should sit for 
the examination in the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an 
official language.
 (d) A candidate with a Special Degree who has passed the core-subject in one language and the subsidiary 
subjects in another language should sit for the examination in which he passed the principal subject or in 
the official language. A candidate will not be permitted to change the medium of the examination given in 
his application.
Note:
 (i) the term “Qualifying Examinations” in (b) and (c) above refer to any of the examinations 
mentioned to in paragraph 05.
 (ii) a  candidate must sit for all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
13. method of Testing -
(a) A written test on the following five subjects and a viva voce test.
         accounting, cost accounting, auditing, business Mathematics and Statistics, Environment
 Subject  Duration Total
  (Hours)  Marks
 1. accounting - 03   150  
 2. cost accounting - 02   100
 3. auditing - 03   150 
 4. business Mathematics and Statistics - 02  100
 5. Environment – 
Part 1 – Economics                           -              01  50 
Part 2 – General commercial knowledge - 01  50  
Part 3 –   Law  -              01  50 
           Environment examination paper is in three parts and shall be conducted separately.   
 the syllabus of the written test is shown in appendix ‘a ’.
(b) candidates who obtain a minimum of 40 percent of the marks in each paper and an average of not less 
than 50 percent of the aggregate marks only will be eligible to be called up for the interview and the 
interview will be held on a date intimated after the date of the written test.  The interview will be confined 
to scrutinizing the qualifications, certificates and service records of candidates and marks will not be given 
for the interview.  the interview board is appointed by the auditor General. 
(c) a  copy of the application for the examination should be handed over by the applicant to the relevant 
authorities to be kept in his personal file and when the applicant is called up for the interview, a copy of the 
application signed by the Head of the Institution together with a letter of confirmation of service should be 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2732
presented.
14. method of Selection for Appointment -
 those who have scored the highest marks totaling the marks for 07 papers in the written test will be selected.  in 
the event of more than one candidate have scored similar marks, the final decision for selection will be made by the 
auditor General. 
15. Results sheet including the names of qualified candidates as per Paragraph 13 (b) will be posted to the Auditor 
General and subsequently the results will be informed by post personally to all candidates or made available in 
www.result.exams.gov.lk of the official webpage of the Department of Examinations. 
16. The decision of the Auditor General will be final regarding issues on matters not covered by the above regulations.
17. in the event of any inconsistency between the notice published in Sinhala, tamil and English languages, the notice 
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
                                     R.R.M. Abeysinghe Banda,  
 deputy auditor General(administration),
 For auditor General.
on october 20, 2023,
National Audit Office,
No.306/72,
Polduwa Road,
battaramulla.
appendix “a”
Syllabus of the Written Test –                                
(i) accounting – one paper of  three hours duration on
* accounting theory – a general understanding of basic concepts and principles, methods of assets 
valuation, theory of double entry, classification of costs, classification of information in balance sheets 
and manufacturing, trading and profit and loss accounts.
 
* accounting Systems – Understanding the concept of control based on the need to control changes in 
resources used in an accounting entity: need for comparison with standards; analysis of business 
transactions familiarity with procedures governing basic management functions such as purchasing, 
selling, receipt & payment of moneys, inventory control etc; familiarity with different designs of records, 
day books, ledgers, control accounts, etc.
* accounting practice problems including the preparation of balance sheet, manufacturing, trading and 
profit and loss accounts, reconciliation statements, control accounts etc; accounting and statistical ratios.
 ( 150 marks)
(ii) Cost Accounting – One paper of two hours duration on
* Principles of costing, types of costing, purchase and stores procedure, materials, pricing of materials, 
pricing of issue of materials, wages, overheads, fixed and variable expenses, direct and indirect expenses, 
budgetary control, standard costing, variations, marginal costing, contract costing, process costing, job 
costing, transport costing, output costing.    
 (100 marks)

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2733
(iii) auditing – one paper of three hours duration on
* Auditing concepts and theory – Need for audit; accountability as a base for audit; scope of audit, classes 
of audit; timing of audit, qualifications of auditors; powers; authority for audit, pre-audit; internal check, 
internal control; in-depth audit, internal audit, the need for standards;  types of evidence for audit, 
techniques.
* auditing systems and procedures – familiarity with audit programmes covering the main balance sheet, 
manufacturing, trading and profit and loss account items, land, buildings, fixed assets, inventories, money 
assets, sales, purchases, receipts, payments, etc.
* auditing problems – Simple problems to test powers of observations, ability to detect errors and unusual 
situations.
* functions of the auditor General
  (150 marks)
(iv) Business Mathematics and Statistics – One paper of two hours duration on
 elements of Business Mathematics and Statistics
          (100 marks)
Mathematics –
* Equations – Linear and quadratic equations including graphical solutions.
* Series – arithmetic and Geometric
 Simple and compound interest including discounting
* Elementary probability theory including permutations and combinations, 
  Use of mathematical table
Statistics  –
* collection, presentation and interpretation of data
* Analysis of frequency distributions; averages and dispersion; standard deviation; statistical frequency curves
* Probability, distribution and its application
* Sampling and significance concept of sample distributions, standard error, methods of sampling, tests of 
significance.
* t ime Series – components of a time series, trends, - seasonal, cyclical and irregular
* Graphic communication, statistical graphic charts.
(v) environment – One paper of three hours duration on the following subjects with three parts :
          (50 marks each for Each Part) 
* Elements of Economics, Law and General commercial Knowledge.
          
economics :
* Nature and significance of the study of economics, the price system, demand and supply, cost and revenue, 
maximization of profits, factors of production; competition & monopoly.
* The characteristics of the economy of Sri Lanka; national income; gross national product, balance of 
payments; economic problems such as inflation, recession, fixed and floating exchange rates, devaluation.
* Money and banking – Nature, forms and functions of money; value of money; general levels of prices; 
functions of the central bank of Sri Lanka, commercial banks, credit and Savings institutions.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2734
Law :
* An outline of the history of different systems of law in Sri Lanka and in general their applicability; 
organization and functions of courts, labour tribunals, industrial courts; functions of judges and other 
important legal officers engaged in the administration of justice in Sri Lanka.
* Nature of contract; natural and legal person; agency; doctrine of ultra vires.
General Commercial Knowledge :
* Office organization including systems and procedures, filing and indexing, office appliances, organization of 
meetings; writing of minutes, reports.
* Organization structure; organization chart, line staff relationship, centralization, decentralization, business 
units including sole trader, partnership, joint stock companies, Co-operatives, public corporations.
* Principles and classes of insurance; Sri Lanka Export Credit Insurance Corporation.
* Carriage of goods by sea, land and air; freight; demurrage
* Negotiable instruments; meaning of negotiability; cheques; bills of exchange; endorsements; crossings; 
acceptance; dishonour.
* Role of co-operatives in Sri Lanka.
* Principles of investments; stock exchange in Sri Lanka.
* Sale of goods including contract of sale, the transferring of ownership of the property in the goods, conditions 
and warranties, hire purchases, purchase on instalment basis, international trade including sales of goods, 
procedure, documents, export and import, methods and terms and conditions of payment, customs and 
excise duties.
* Development finance including the functions of the National development bank, development finance 
corporation, World bank, international Monetary fund.
 10-463
DEPARTmENT   Of  NATIONAL   ARChIvES  
My No. dNa2/Ma7/3/15.
Open  Competitive  Examination  for  the  Recruitment  of  Supervisory management  Assistant  
Technical  Services Category  Archival Conservator  Training  Grade,  Audio – visual  Records  
Conservator Training  Grade  of  the  Department  of  National  Archives - 2023
a pplications are invited for the Open Competitive Examination from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka recruit to the post of 
archival conservator t raining Grade and audio-Visual Records conservator t raining Grade of Supervisory Management 
assistant t echnical Services category.
Number of Vacancies –  archival conservator 14
 audio-Visual Records conservator 04
70% from the vacancies are recruited under the open stream.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2735
If only there are no applicants with basic qualifications in the department for the percentage of 30% due to be recruited from 
the Limited competitive Examination, the remaining amount will be completed from the external applicants who will be 
selected from the open competitive Examination.
01. t he recruitment is done by this examination for the post of archival conservator training Grade and audio-visual
Records conservator training Grade of Supervisory Management assistant technical Services category of the 
department of National archives. the closing date of applications is 24/11/2023. this examination will be held at 
examination centers that will be established in colombo only.
02. f unctions Assigned to the Post:
Position 
No. 
Approved 
designation names
f unctions
01 archival 
conservator
conservation and restoration of archives, maps, pictures deposited in the 
Department of National Archives, compliance with scientific guidelines 
and standards for targets provided for conservation work, training on book 
binding, where required participating in records conservation activities 
for state/private institutions and individuals, performing practical training 
related to the conservation of state records, participating in records 
conservation activities in religious places, conducting practical training on 
the restoration of records that have been subject to disasters, performing 
other functions related to the post assigned by the 
archival conservation 
Supervising Officer, Chief Conservation Officer (Archives), National 
archives deputy director/ assistant director ( technical), National archives 
director ( technical, audio-Visual and Electronic Records) and director 
General National archives.
02 audio-Visual 
Records conservator
Maintaining and conserving audio-visual records deposited in the 
department of National archives and making them available to listeners, 
providing copies of those records in computer or audio-visual media to 
users, management, maintenance and restoration of audio-visual equipment, 
provide assistance by performing technical tasks for the use of audio-
visual equipment at the functions held in the auditorium, performing other 
functions related to the post assigned by the Chief Conservation Officer 
(
audio  Visual), National archives deputy director / assistant director 
(film and audio-Visual), National archives director ( techni cal, audio-
Visual and Electronic Records) and director General National archives. 
03. T erms of Service:
(a) a  selected candidate will be appointed to the post of archival conservator/ audio-Visual conservator after
the successful completion of the training period under the general conditions of governing appointments in
the Public Service and to the terms and conditions imposed in the Scheme of Recruitment approved by the 
Public Service 
commission on 05.06.2018 and the Service Minute and the amendments made or will be made 
thereafter to the Service Minute of Sri Lanka technological Service, the Provisions of the Establishement 
code and the financial Regulations.
(b) t his post is permanent. With pension. although this position is stated to be pensionable, future recruits will be
subjected to future policy decisions taken by the government regarding the pension scheme. Also, you have to
contribute to the Widows' and orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. y ou will 
have to pay contributions as required by the state from time to time.
(c) c andidates who are admitted to this training grade will  be recruited to archival conservator training Grade
iii/ audio-Visual Records conservator training Grade iii after successfully completing the two-year training
period and submitting the certificate of passing the examination conducted by the relevant institutions. 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2736
The appointment is subject to a three-year probation period. Supervisory Management Assistant Technical 
Services category archival conservator Grade iii, audio-Visual Records conservator Grade iii shall pass 
the Departmental examination in addition to the first efficiency bar examination as specified in the recruitment 
scheme within 03 years of recruitment to grade iii.
(d) the director General National archives has the power to cancel the appointment of candidates who fail to 
accept the duties of the post offered to them on the due date.
 04. monthly salary scale :
in accordance with Public administration circular No. 03/2016 (Schedule V), the allowance of archival 
conservator training Grade iii/ audio-Visual Records conservator training Grade iii is as follows:
 Monthly for the first year : Rs. 27,140/-
 Monthly for the second year: Rs. 27,440/-
apprentices who pass the examination conducted after satisfactory completion of the two-year training period 
will be appointed to the post of Supervisory Management assistant technical Services archival conservator 
training Grade iii/ audio-Visual Records conservator training Grade iii in the department of National archives. 
according to the aforesaid circular, the relevant salary scale (MN 3 – 2016) is Rs. 31,040 – 10 x 445 – 11x660 –  
10 x 730 – 10x750 – Rs. 57,550/- - (Starting Salary Step – 31,040). in addition, you may receive other allowances 
paid by the state to public servants from time to time.
 05. Recruitment Qualifications :
Position (a) Education qualifications (b) Professional 
Qualifications
(c) Experience
archival conservator 
(training Grade)
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination Should 
have passed Sinhala/ tamil, 
Mathematics, Science and one 
other subject with credits in six (06) 
subjects in one attempt and passed 
the English language in not more than 
two attempts, and 
Passing the G.c.E a/L Examination 
in one attempt in three subjects 
(excluding the General Examination) 
including two (02) subjects in 
biology, Physics and chemistry.
Not relevant Not relevant
audio-Visual Records 
conservator (t raining 
Grade)
(a) Physical fitness :
 Every candidate should be mentally and physically fit enough to work in any part of Sri Lanka and perform 
the duties of the post.
(b) other :
 i. Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ii. Must have a great character
 iii. No clergyman of any denomination is eligible to appear for this examination
 IV . All the qualifications required to appear for the competitive examination for the post should have 
been completed in all respects by the date mentioned in the Notice of calling application/  Gazette 
Notification.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2737
(c) age :
 Should be not less than eighteen (18) years and not more than thirty (30) years as on the last date for receipt of 
applications. accordingly, only those whose birthday falls on 24/11/2005 or before and on or after 24/11/1993 
are eligible to apply for this.
 06. method of Recruitment :
Recruitment will be made for the Grade of archival conservator training Grade iii/ audio-Visual Records 
conservator training Grade iii based on the results of the written competitive examination and the general 
interview. candidates who have passed the written examination will be selected on the basis of the sequence of 
their merit marks in the similar number of open recruitment followed by a general interview. candidates who are 
admitted to this training grade will be recruited to archival conservator training Grade iii/ audio-Visual Records 
Conservator Training III after successfully completing the two-year training period and submitting the certificate 
of passing the examination conducted by the relevant institutions. apprentices who fail to pass the examination 
held at the end of the training have the opportunity to extend their training period for a period not exceeding 6 
months. at the end of such an extended period, the service of the apprentices who fail the re-sit examination will 
be terminated.
(a) Written exam :
 the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums and the medium applied for will 
not changed later. A written examination of two (02) question papers consisting of the following subjects will 
be conducted. The minimum marks required to pass each subject are as follows:
Subject Time Total score minimum marks 
required to pass
01. intelligence test 01 h 100 40
02. Technology (A subject-specific test relevant 
to each post)
02 h 100 40
 candidates should sit for all the question papers and answer all the question papers in one language only.
 i. Examination Results – Candidates will be notified of the results by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk
 07. Syllabus for the examination:
Name of the question paper Syllabus
01. intelligence test it is intended to measure the candidate's general 
intelligence, reasoning ability, expression, numerical 
ability and comprehension ability.
02. Technology (Technical and Subject 
specific test relevant to the post)
this is intended to measure the technical knowledge 
relevant to the positions.
 08. Examination fees:
Examination Fees is Rs. 1200/- further, the examination fee should be paid cash to any post office/ sub post office/ 
District/ Divisional Secretariat Office in the island to be credited to the state revenue head under the Commissioner 
General of Examinations 20-03-02-13 and the receipt obtained in the name of the applicant should be affixed at 
one place on the edge of the application so that it does not slip. Money orders or stamps will not be accepted for the 
examination fee and the fee paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination 
for any reason. it may also be helpful to retain a photocopy of the receipt.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2738
 09. method of application :
(a) the name of the examination mentioned in the title of the application should be in English in addition to 
Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in English in addition to t amil in t amil applications. the application 
should be prepared according to the format attached to this notice and should be prepared on 8 1/2 " x 12" 
(a4) paper and the applicant should complete the application in his own handwriting. computer-generated 
applications can also be used. the application should be completed in one language only. the application 
should be prepared in such a way that headings numbered 01 to 07 are included on the first page.
(b) application that do not comply with the specimen application and applications containing incomplete 
information will be rejected without notice. (It may be helpful to retain a photocopy of the application.) The 
applicants should inquire whether the completed application is in line with the application mentioned in the 
notice of examination. Otherwise, the application may be rejected.
(c) completed application should be sent by registered post to the address "director General National archives, 
department of National archives, Philip Gunawardena Mawatha, colombo 07" on or before 24/11/2023. it 
should be clearly written at the top left corner of the envelope containing the application "open competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to the post of Supervisory Management assistant t echnical Service category 
………………………….. t raining Grade of the department of National archives 2023." No applications 
will be accepted after the closing date of 24/11/2023.
(d) applicant must be have attested the signature of the applicant by  a  state college Principle, a Justice of Peace, 
a Commissioner of Oaths, a lawyer, a Notary Public, an Officer authorized by the Armed Forces, a Gazetted 
Officer in the Police Service or a Staff Member holding a Permanent State Post.
(e) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No complaints regarding loss or delay of application will be 
considered in the mail. the applicant shall bear the damages incurred by delaying the application till the last 
date.
(f) You will not be notified that the application has been received. Examination Admission will be issued by the 
commissioner General of Examination to the candidates who have paid the prescribed examination fees on or 
before the last date of receipt of the applications mentioned in the examination and submitted the completed 
applications along with the relevant receipt on the presumption that only those who have the qualifications 
mentioned in the examination notice have applied. the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will publish 
an announcement in the newspapers and on the official website of the Department stating the same as soon 
as the examination admission forms are issued. if there is a candidate who has not obtained the admission 
card even after 02 or 03 date from the date of publication of the notice, he should inquire about it from the 
international Examination organizing branch of the department Examinations of Sri Lanka as mentioned in 
the advertisement. in doing so, the applicant should state the name of the examination to which he/she has 
applied, the full name of the applicant, the National identity card number and the address. if the applicant is 
resident outside Colombo, it would be more effective to send a request letter to the fax Number mentioned 
in the notice stating the applicant's fax number so that a copy of the admission can be obtained by fax with 
the details. in doing so, it will be useful to have a copy of the application, copy of the receipt of payment 
of examination fees and the registered post article at the time of mailing the application to confirm any 
information requested by the department of Examinations.
 10. Entering the exam :
(a) admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to the candidates who have 
submitted the complete application in all respects. a  candidate who does not present his/her admission card 
will not be allowed to sit for the examination.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2739
(b) candidate should sit for the examination at the examination hall allotted to them. Each candidate should 
certify the signature of the relevant admission card for the examination hall and hand it over to the Head of 
the examination hall on the first day of his sitting in that hall.
Note : issuance of an Examination admission card to a candidate is not considered as recognition that he or she 
has qualified for the examination.
(c) Candidates should confirm their identity to the satisfaction of the Head of the Hall for each subject they are 
sitting for the examination hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving License
 candidates should also enter the examination hall without covering their face and both ears so that they 
can verify their identity. candidates who refuse to prove their identities will not be admitted to enter the 
examination hall. furthermore, from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the 
examination and leaving, the candidates should not cover the face and both ears so that the candidate can be 
identified by examination authorities. 
 11. Penalties for providing false information :
if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature may be cancelled at any time before, during or after 
the examination. A candidate is subject to dismissal if he/she is found to have deliberately made a false point, or 
if he/she deliberately suppressed an important point. Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conduct of the examination and issuance of results.
 12. Other matters :
Matters not considered in these regulations will be decided by the director General National archives.
 13. if there is any inappropriateness or inconsistency between the language text of this announcement published in the 
Sinhala, tamil and English mediums, in such a case the Sinhala medium announcement will be acted upon.
as per the order of the Public Service commission,
director General National archives,
department of National archives,
No. 07,
Philip Gunewardena Mawatha,
colombo 07,
at the department of National archives.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2740
Selection Position No.
1
2
(Select according to paragraph No. 02 of 
the Gazette notification)
Specimen Application
  For office use only
cd;sl f,aLkdrlaIl fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wëlaIK l<ukdlrK iyldr ;dlaI‚l fiajd .Kfha ''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 
mqyqKq lsÍfï fY%a‚h i|yd n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h -2023
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Supervisory management Assistant Technical 
Services Category ……………………………… Training Grade of the Department of National Archives – 2023
Medium at the examination : Selected post/ posts :
Sinhala – 2
tamil – 3
English – 4
(Mentioned in the box)
1. full Name (in English block letters) :  ……………………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  (Ex: HERatH MUdiyaNSELaGE SaMaN RatHNayaKa)
2. Name with initials (in English block letters):  ……………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (Ex: H. M. S. RatHNayaKa)
3. full Name (in Sinhala):  ……………………………………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
4. Permanent address (in Sinhala): 
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (a) address for the dispatched of the admission card (in Sinhala) :
    …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (b) address for the dispatched of the admission card (in English block letters) :
    …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
    …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
5. Sex :  female : Male :
6. National identity card Number :
7. t elephone Number :
8. (a) date of birth :
  y ear : Month : date :
(b) age at the closing date of  application :
   y ears : Month : date :

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2741
9. t raining grade applied for :  …………………………………………………………………………………………
10. Educational Qualifications :  ………………………………………………………………………………………
 (a) G. c. E. (o/L) – first Sitting 
  y ear :
  index No :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
 (b) G.c.E. (o/L) – Second sitting
  y ear :
  index No :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
 (c)   G.c.E.(a/L)
  y ear :
  index No :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
11. Examination fees (Receipt must be attached):
 I. Post office/ Sub post office at which payment was done:………………………….….….….….….….….
 ii. amount : …………………..….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2742
 iii. date of the Payment :……………………..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..….
 iV . Number of the Receipt :…………………..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..
Firmly fix the receipt here with on border
(Keeping the copy would be useful)
12. declaration/ Statement by applicant:
I declare that the information given here is true to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware that I will be subject 
to disqualification if the information is found to be false prior to my selection and I will be subject to dismissal without 
any compensation if it is discovered after the appointment. I further declare that I am subject to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conduct of examinations and the issuance of 
results.
  …………………………………
  Signature 
date :…………………… 
13. attestation of the Signature of the candidate : (Strike out irrelevant words.)
i certify that Mr./ Mrs./Miss …………………………….. submitting this application is personally known to me and 
he/she placed the signature before me on ………. day of …………… and that the due examination fee has been paid 
and the receipt has been affixed.
Signature of Certifying Officer ……………..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..…..
Full name of the Certifying officer ………………………………………………………………………………
designation :………………………………………………………………………………………………………
address (Rubber stamp) ………………….………………………………………………………………………
date : ……………………….……………………………………………………………………………………
 Note : The application should be certified as mentioned in paragraph 9 (d) of the Gazette Notification.
14. attestation of the Head of the department/ institution 
the person submitting this application Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………….. is working in this  Ministry/ department/ 
cooperation/ board and if he/she will be selected for the above post, he/she can be released from the service of this 
institution.
……………………………………………………  Rubber Stamp:
Signature of the Head of the department.
date  :- …………….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….….
Name of the Head of the department  :- …………………..….….….….….….….….….….….….….
designation  :-………………………….….….….….….….….….….….…..
Address of the Office  :- ………………………….….….….….….….….….….….….
10-472

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2743
mINISTR y  Of  JuSTICE ,  PRISON   AffAIRS   AND  CONSTITuTIONAL   REfORmS
Recruitment to the post of Labour Tribunal Stenographer in the multifunctional Segment I of the 
management Assistant Non-Technical Service Category of the Labour Tribunal Secretariat (Open basis) 
– 2023
tHE  notice calling for applications for the recruitment to the Post of Labour t ribunal Stenographer in the Multifunctional 
Segment i of the Management assistant Non-t echnical Service category of the Labour t ribunal Secretariat was published in 
the Gazette Notification No. 2332 dated 12.05.2023 in three languages. This is to inform that the closing date of applications 
mentioned as 12.06.2023 in the said Gazette Notification is hereby extended as indicated below.
the closing date of applications – 27.11.2023
08.  method of Recruitment:
Syllabus of the Practical t est :
Subject Syllabus
01 Shorthand (English) t ake down in shorthand at a speed of 120 words per minute 
a passage continuously reading for a period of 05 minutes 
and computer type-setting the passage taken down in 
shorthand at a speed of 20 words per minute.
the duly completed application prepared as per the specimen form appended at the end of the Gazette Notification No. 2332 
dated 12.05.2023, affixing the receipt in the space provided in proof of the payment of fee should be sent by registered post 
to reach the "Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms, No. 19, Sri Sangaraja Mawatha, 
colombo 10." before 27.11.2023.
applicants who have already sent duly completed application by post are not required to send applications once again.
Please note that the specimen application along with the Gazette Notification No. 2332 dated 12.05.2023 is published in the 
website www.moj.gov.lk of Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms.
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms,
10-473/1
annexure 02
mINISTR y  Of  JuSTICE ,  PRISON   AffAIRS   AND  CONSTITuTIONAL   REfORmS
Recruitment to the post of Labour Tribunal Stenographer in the multifunctional Segment I of the 
management Assistant Non-Technical Service Category of the Labour Tribunal Secretariat (Limited 
basis) – 2023
tHE  notice calling for applications for the recruitment to the Post of Labour t ribunal Stenographer in the Multifunctional 
Segment i of the Management assistant Non-t echnical Service category of the Labour t ribunal Secretariat was published in 
the Gazette Notification No. 2332 dated 12.05.2023 in three languages. This is to inform that the closing date of applications 
mentioned as 12.06.2023 in the said Gazette Notification is hereby extended as indicated below.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'27
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.10.2023
2744
the closing date of applications – 27.11.2023
04. Qualifications –
iii. Experience :
applicant should have a dynamic and satisfactory service period of 05 years in the following post of skilled, semi-skilled 
and non-skilled of primary service category attached to a court coming within the purview of the Ministry of Justice, Prison 
Affairs, Constitutional Reforms and it should be confirmed by the Head of the Department.
 i. Process Server and Writ Executor
 ii. crier and Usher
 iii. fiscal Matron
 iV . fiscal Peon
 V . court Security
 Vi. the KKS under the combined Service and the Labour tribunal clerks attached to a court or a Labour 
tribunal having completed a dynamic and satisfactory service period of 05 years as at the closing date 
of applications.
 VII. Typists (MN-01) attached to the Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs Constitutional Reforms having 
completed a dynamic and Satisfactory service period of 05 years as at the closing date of applications.
the duly completed application prepared as per the specimen form appended at the end of the Gazette Notification No. 2332 
dated 12.05.2023, affixing the receipt in the space provided in proof of the payment of fee should be sent by registered post 
to reach the "Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms, No. 19, Sri Sangaraja Mawatha, 
colombo 10," before 27.11.2023.
applicants who have already sent duly completed application by post are not required to send applications once again.
Please note that the specimen application along with the Gazette Notification No. 2332 dated 12.05.2023 is published in the 
website www.moj.gov.lk of Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms.
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Justice, Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms,
 
10-473/2
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.