

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1960$70 - 2016 wfm%a,a ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'04'01
No.1960/70  - FRIDAY  APRIL  01,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
By-Laws
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A
CENTRAL   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
.................Municipal Council
BY LAWS  RELATING TO  REGULATING ,  SUPERVISING   AND   CONTROLLING   DISASTER   MANAGEMENT
I, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby publish the
By Laws complied by me, mentioned below according to the Section 2 of the Local Authorities Act (Standard By Laws)
No.6 of 1952, read along with Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989.
While the Municipal Councils have been empowered by Section 272 of Urban Councils Ordinance, read along
with Sub section (l) of Section 267 of Municipal Councils Ordinance Chapter 252, the By - Laws relating to Regulating,
Supervising and Controlling Disaster Management, It is hereby announced that the Municipal Councils in the Central
Province are empowered to accept this By Laws subject to provisions in Section 3 of the Local Authorities (Standard By
Laws) No.6 of 1952.
S
ARA TH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province and
the Minister in charge of the subject of Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Pallekele,
5th of January, 2016.
BY-LAW   ON   DISASTER   MANAGEMENT
I. This by-law has been formulated in terms of powers vested in the Municipal Council in
267 section being read with 272 section under 252 chapter of Municipal Council Ordinance.
2. This by-law should be considered as a supplement to the provisions of any other written
law on Disaster Management and should not be considered as one which will diminish the
powers of such provisions or as a substitute to such provisions.
3. This by-law is cited as the By-Law on Disaster Management of the area of jurisdiction of
the Municipal Council.
4. This by-law is imposed to make provision to minimize the possibility of disaster situations
arising, to provide relief to persons who are affected or are likely to be affected in a
Legal Provision
for the
formulation of the
By-Law
Title of By-law
Objective

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
2A
disaster situation, for pre-preparation to face a disaster situation, to put in place pre-disaster
processes to minimize disaster risk, and all connected or consequential matters thereof,
within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council.
5. Decisions on pre-strategies that should be adopted to manage disasters which may arise, to
provide relief to persons who are affected or are likely to be affected in such a disaster
situation and to minimize disaster risk in the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council,
should be taken by the Municipal Council Disaster Management Committee.
6. Composition of the Committee
The number of members of the Committee mentioned in By-Law 5 should not exceed 23,
and should comprise the following persons, including representation of women.
(i) The Mayor of the Municipal Council shall be the Chairperson of the Committee.
(ii) The Commissioner of the Municipal Council shall be the Secretary of the Committee.
(iii) Four members of the Municipal Council who are elected at the General Meeting of
the month of December each year, shall hold office in the following year.
(iv) The T echnological Officer of the Municipal Council.
(v) The Officer in Charge/Chief Fireman of the Fire-Fighting Section of the Municipal
Council.
(vi) The Assistant Director of the District Disaster Management Unit, who has been
appointed in terms of the provisions of the Sri Lanka Disaster Management Act,
No. 13 of 2005, or a representative nominated by him.
(vii) The Divisional Secretary of the Divisional Secretariat area to which the Municipal
Council belongs, or a representative nominated by him.
(viii) The Medical Officer of Health or a representative nominated by him.
(ix) The Officer in Charge of the Police Station to which the Municipal Council belongs,
or a representative nominated by him.
(x) (a) A minimum of three representatives of the Urban Development Advisory
Committee which operates in the Municipal Council area;
(b) The Divisional Director of Education or a representative nominated by him, in
the Division to which government schools of the Municipal Council area belong;
(c) A representative of the Chamber of Commerce or Traders Association of the
Municipal Council area;
(d) The Divisional Electrical Superintendent or his representative of the Ceylon
Electricity Board;
(e) The Officer in Charge or his representative of the National Water Supply and
Drainage Board;
Actions that
should be
performed

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
(f) The Depot Manager or his representative of the Sri Lanka Transport Board;
(g) A representative of the Road Passenger Transport Authority;
(h) The Commissioner of Local Government or his  representative, shall be elected
through a resolution which is passed at the General Meeting of the Municipal
Council of the month of December each year, to hold office in the following
year.
If a vacancy arises in the Committee as a result of a Member of the Municipal Council
who is elected as a Member of the Committee under Sub-Para 6 (iii) above resigning
from Committee membership or vacating his membership of the Municipal Council
for whatever reason, another member of the Municipal Council shall be elected for
such vacancy at the next meeting of the Municipal Council held after such vacancy
arises, and the member so elected shall hold office till 31st of December of that
year.
If a vacancy in the membership of the Committee arises as a result of a member
vacating his membership due to resignation or any other reason, another person to
fill that vacancy should be elected at the next General Meeting of the Municipal
Council. Further, the member so elected shall hold office till the 31st of December
of that year.
In the event of any officer mentioned in Sub-Sections 6 (iv), (v) and (ix) being unable
to personally attend a meeting of the Committee, another officer who is nominated
by him and who is covering up his duties can be made to participate in the meeting
with the consent of the head of the institution.
7. (1) An ordinary meeting of the Committee should be held at least once in two months.
The Chairperson of the Committee shall have the power to summon a special meeting
of the Committee on any occasion where he deems suitable.
(2) Every meeting of the Committee should he chaired by the Chairperson of the
Municipal Council or in his absence the Vice Chairperson. In the event of the absence
of both the Chairperson as well as the Vice Chairperson of the Municipal Council at
a Committee Meeting, the members who are present shall elect a member among
members mentioned in Sub-Section (1) (iii) of By-Law 5 to chair the meeting.
(3) The quorum for a meeting of the Committee shall be one-third of the whole
membership of the Committee.
(4) Every decision of the Committee shall be taken on the majority vote of the members
present at the meeting on that day.
(5) Decisions taken at the Committee shall be recorded by the Secretary on a record
book and at the next meeting of the Committee when they are confirmed with necessary
amendments, the person who is chairing the Committee shall put his signature to
same.
8. No act or action of the Committee should be considered null or void due to the sole reason
of there being a vacancy among the members of the Committee or there being a deficiency
in the election of a member.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
4A
9. Minutes of every meeting of the Committee shall be tabled at the ensuing General Meeting
of the Municipal Council for its information.
10. If there are any recommendations which the Committee submits for approval to the General
Meeting, they may be considered by the General Meeting, after obtaining a report from the
Committee on Finance and Policy.
11. The duties of the Committee shall be the duties mentioned in the first schedule of these
by-laws.
12. (1) It shall be lawful for the Chairperson to direct that
(a) a lamp using kerosene oil; or
(b) a lamp or flame made by using coconut oil or any other material;
(c) an incense stick or something which is similar;
(d) or anything else with such an open flame,
which is set a light inside an office or a trade premises within the area of
jurisdiction of the Municipal Council, should be blown out or diffused after
the normal daily work of such office or trade premises is over and before the
closure of such office or trade premises.
(2) The owner or manager or the caretaker at the relevant time of any office or trade
premises situated within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council shall be
the person responsible for carrying out the direction set out in paragraph (1) and it
shall be his duty to carry out such direction by himself or through another person.
13. No person shall-
(1) (a) Ignite a fire or allow the ignition of a fire, or not be performed
(b) Have in possession an open flame; or
(2) Carry out business without an insurance certificate and fire- extinguishing equipment
and material, in a petroleum oil filling station, petroleum oil storage facility, premises
where LP gas is sold wholesale or retail, or place where LP gas storage tanks are
installed, within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council.
14. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupier of any building within the area of jurisdiction
of the Municipal Council, where an office or a trade is conducted, to ensure that the
electricity circuits are installed and maintained with the fullest safety, and no unsafe
electricity wires should be drawn or allowed to be drawn.
15. On private or state owned land within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council, no
blocking out of land should be done or any temporary or permanent building, wall or
retaining wall erected in a manner that will obstruct the natural flow of rain water.
16. No house should be built on any land, located within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal
Council, having the risk of natural disaster or having an incline of more than 30 degrees,
without the permission of the Municipal Council.
Actions that
should

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
17. On lands with a natural incline of over 30 degrees, earth should not be cut or removed
without conforming to criteria prepared with technical assistance of the Disaster
Management Center.
18. (1) A map should be prepared and a data-base maintained showing areas within the area
of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council, where disasters have occurred previously
or which are vulnerable to such disasters, and such data should be displayed for the
information of the public.
(2) Areas within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council, which are identified
as vulnerable to disasters, should be mapped out and wide publicity given among the
public.
(3) Boards in the three languages should be installed to make the  public aware of places
which are vulnerable to disaster and they should be updated.
(4) Necessary action should be taken to minimize disasters in areas identified as
vulnerable to disasters, with the assistance of the Disaster Management Centre and
other relevant institutions, after making them aware.
19. (1) When giving the necessary approval for all  development and construction activities,
an evaluation of the disaster risk situations prevailing in the relevant area and steps
that should be taken to minimize disasters should be obtained from the Disaster
Management Centre. In case of high disaster  risk, a plan, with a certificate from a
chartered engineer, architect/geologist, embodying strategies to minimize disasters,
should be submitted.
(2) Should work together with the Disaster Management Committees which have presently
been established by the Disaster Management Center at Grama Niladari area level, in
the area of jurisdiction.
20. Should work within the strategy presently adopted by the Government in regard to providing
funds to restore back to normalcy areas affected by disasters and to provide relief to victims
of disasters together with other relevant institutions.
21. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Council -
(1) To map out and update and maintain such maps in regard to disaster vulnerable zones,
which have been identified as  likely disaster vulnerable zones by the Committee
with technical assistance of the Disaster Management Centre, to identify causes of
disaster in regard to each such zone, and in the event of a local disaster, to facilitate
finding ways of evacuating those who are affected and finding places to lodge such
displaced persons temporarily;
(2) To identify separately specific short-term and long-term impacts likely on the lives
of the people living in the disaster vulnerable zones ;
(3) To identify relevant institutions which could provide equipment to the sites which
have been identified by the Committee as suitable to provide temporary lodging to
persons who are displaced, in the event of a large-scale disaster occurring in the
disaster vulnerable zones;
Role of the Local
Authority

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
6A
(4) To take action, together with the members of the Municipal Council, community,
Disaster Management Centre, and other stake-holders, to identify courses of action
and tasks to be performed to minimize disaster vulnerability and restore to normalcy
those who have been affected.
(5) Action should be taken to prepare priority plans and update them to minimize disaster
vulnerability and bring back to normalcy those who are affected by disaster.
(6) It shall be the duty of the Municipal Council to provide adequate training, with the
assistance of the Disaster Management Centre, to members of groups identified by
the Committee to engage in providing relief to persons affected in the event of a
disaster situation arising.
22. (1) It shall be the duty of the Municipal Council to  specifically assign an officer or
employee of the to keep pre-disaster reports which are issued by the Disaster
Management Centre, on the instructions of technical institutions which are dealing
with disasters.
(2) It shall be the responsibility of the officer or employee to whom this duty is entrusted
to inform the Chairperson or Members of the Committee about pre-disaster warnings
of disasters which could affect the area of jurisdiction .of the Municipal Council.
(3) The Committee may decide on the courses of action that Should be taken, in the
event of a disaster risk arising or is likely to arise in any disaster vulnerable zone
within the Municipal Council area, to provide relief to those who are affected or are
likely to be affected. If in the opinion of the Chairperson, there is insufficient time
to summon the Committee to take a decision or decisions on providing facilities
such as life protection, food, drinking water, clothing, health and sanitation equipment,
the Chairperson should have the  power to take decisions on providing necessary
relief  on such an occasion. However, it shall be the duty of the Chairperson to submit
to the Committee the decision or decisions he has taken, at a meeting summoned
within three calendar days.
(4) The Municipal Council can provide relief to persons affected by a disaster according
to a decision or decisions taken by the Committee or Chairperson as mentioned in
paragraph (3) above, and the necessary expenditure for it can be borne by the Municipal
Council fund.
(5) It shall be the duty of the Committee to submit a detailed report containing decisions
taken by the Committee or Chairperson in the manner mentioned in  paragraph (3)
above, courses of action taken according to such decisions as per paragraph (4) above
and what expenditure has been borne by the Municipal Council fund for such action,
to the next General Meeting of the Municipal Council, held after the incident.
23. The Disaster Management Center should give technical assistance to identify lands which
are vulnerable to natural disasters and also lands with an incline of over 30 degrees, located
within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council.
24. Areas within the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council which are affected by floods
should be identified, marked in maps, and approval for the foundation level of houses should
be granted, based on a scientific methodology  depending on the maximum water level,
rainfall and other factors or on past experience, in respect of each of the areas.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
25. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Council to construct a surface drainage system and
maintain it, so that rain water would flow without a hindrance, and take action to remove
obstructions prevailing in regard to the flow of rain water.
(l) In approving sub-division applications in the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal
Council, it should be ensured that a necessary drain system for the systematic flow
of rain water so that no disaster situation occurs, is included in the plan.
(2) In approving auction of lands in the Municipal Council area, confirmation should be
obtained that a certificate of  conformity has been issued for the blocking out plan.
26. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Council to create awareness among the residents and
those conducting businesses in the area of its jurisdiction about the need to maintain LP
gas cylinders, accessories and where such accessories are joint together, without leaks, in
houses, trade premises and other places where LP gas is used, and on pre-safety methods
in this regard.
27. It shall be compulsory to submit a fire insurance cover to issue annual trade licenses to
businesses which use LP gas, and such businesses should not be allowed to be conducted
without a fire insurance cover.
28. In places within the Municipal Council area, where people gather in large numbers, such as
tuition classes and shopping complexes, it should be ensured that there are sufficient exits
so that people could be evacuated in a short time in the event of a fire or other accident
occurring, and no trade licenses should  be issued to business places where this requirement
is not fulfilled.
29. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Council to create awareness among the people of its
area, with the assistance of relevant technical institutions, on safety methods to be adopted
during lightning at all times, including monsoon rain periods, and on use of electrical
equipment during whether conditions with thunder.
30. It shall be the duty of the Municipal Council to establish voluntary committees to save
lives and administer first aid during times of disaster and provide them with necessary
training, with the assistance of relevant technical institutions.
31. (l) It shall be the duty of the Chairperson to ensure that sufficient funds, including moneys
from the Disaster Management Fund, are allocated in the Municipal Council
Budget -
(a) To minimize disaster risk situations, and
(b) To provide relief during disaster risk situations under this By-Law.
It shall be the duty of the Secretary to report to the Auditor-General without delay
what decision has been taken by the General Council of the Municipal Council under
this By-Law.
32. (1) An organization or a person may provide financial assistance to meet the expenditure
which the Municipal Council has to incur in implementing this by-law, or provide
necessary equipment, implements and materials to perform such tasks.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
8A
(2) While financial assistance provided to the Municipal Council according to (1) above
may be paid into the Municipal Council fund, moneys so provided should be used
only for tasks mentioned in these by-laws.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Secretary to maintain separate  accounts of the moneys paid
to the Municipal Council under paragraph (2) above, and such fund shall be named  as
the Disaster Management Account. A policy and set of instructions should be prepared
for the use of moneys of this fund, for which the approval of the Municipal Council
should be obtained.
(4) A report on the moneys received and spent from the Municipal Council fund under
this by-law should be submitted to every meeting of the Committee for consideration
and it should also be tabled at the next meeting of the Municipal Council.
33. (1) It shall be the duty of the head of the institution or a person acting for him to provide
to the Secretary of the Municipal Council, on any occasion he makes a request, data
and information relevant to Disaster Management in the possession of the District
Disaster Management Committee of the District to which the area of jurisdiction of
the Municipal Council belongs, the Divisional Secretary or Divisional Secretaries
of Divisional Secretariat or Divisional Secretariats to which the Municipal Council
area belongs, other Local Authorities belonging to the Municipal Council area, other
state institutions which are located within the Municipal Council area or close to it
and non-governmental organizations operating within the Municipal Council area.
(2) Similarly, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Municipal Council to provide to
any of the above institutions when requested, data and information relevant to Disaster
Management in the possession of the Municipal Council.
(3) Provided however that whatever is mentioned in  paragraphs (1) and (2) above, if in
the opinion of the head of institution or person acting for him, giving out data or
information so requested can be a threat or can be harmful to state security, the
directions given in the above paragraphs shall not be a hindrance to him to refrain
from giving out such data and information which could be a threat or could be harmful
to state security.
34. It shall be lawful for the Chairperson or Secretary to delegate the power in regard to
regulating this By-Law to any officer of the Municipal Council.
35. The Secretary or an officer to whom powers are delegated will have the power to inspect
directives of this by-law, and “appropriate time” would mean any occasion.
36. Any complaint could be submitted in writing or verbally to the Chairperson, Secretary or
an officer to whom powers have been delegated, who will  take steps to hold an initial
investigation and provide a solution.
37. It shall be an offence to violate one or several or all of the directives contained in these by-
laws.
38. A person who is found guilty by a Court possessing appropriate jurisdiction, for an offence
of breaching or violating any of the directives contained in these by-laws, shall be liable to
a fine mentioned in Section 267 (3) of the Municipal Council Ordinance such offence.
Delegating Power
Inspection
Process and
Authority
Complaints And
Redress
Mechanism
Violation of By-
Laws
Fines and
Penalties

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
39. In these by-laws, unless the context otherwise requires, -”Chairperson” means the Mayor
of the Municipal Council  or a person entrusted with the powers, duties and functions of
The Chairperson;
“Vice Chairperson” means the Deputy Mayor of the relevant Municipal Council.
“Secretary” means the Commissioner of the relevant Municipal Council or an officer
entrusted with the powers, duties and functions of such Secretary;
“Municipal Council” means relevant Municipal Council ;
“General Council” means the meeting of the Municipal Council held monthly;
“Disaster and Risk” mean what is defined as “Disaster” in the Sri Lanka Disaster Management
Act, No. 13 of 2005.
Accordingly, a disaster, including -
(a) A landslide;
(b) A cyclone;
(c) A flood;
(d) A drought;
(e) An industrial catastrophe;
(f) A tsunami (a sea flood close to an earthquake) (g) An earthquake;
(h) An air catastrophe; (i) A sea catastrophe; (j) A fire;
(k) An epidemic; (I) An explosion; (m)An air attack;
(n) A civil or internal conflict; (0) A chemical accident;
(P) An emergency caused by radiation; (q) An oil leak on land or sea;
(r) A nuclear disaster;
(s) An urban or forest fire; (t) Coast erosion; or
(u) A tornado, a cyclone, a strike of lightning, or a violent thunderstorm,
which has actually occurred or is in imminent danger of occurring by an act of nature or by
man, which has harmed or threatens to harm the security or health of a person or a group of
persons in Sri Lanka,  or causes destruction or harm to property, or threatens to cause
destruction or harm to property, is meant.
“Providing relief’, according to the interpretation given to the term “disaster” for the
purposes of this by-law, would mean, in any disaster situation or when there is specific
likelihood of any disaster occurring, those who have been affected or are likely to be
affected by such disaster situation being temporarily placed in a safe place or places, saving
lives, administering first aid, providing basic facilities to those affected by  the disaster
situation and displaced, until they leave the temporary camps, and should include providing
cooked or dry food rations to  those who are so displaced.
FRIST  SCHEDULE
(l) Identifying disasters which impact the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council and
areas which would be affected by them.
(2) Deciding on the causes or likely causes of disaster situations.
(3) Identifying strategies to prevent or minimize causes of disaster and bring back those who
have been affected by disaster to normalcy.
Schedule
Interpretation and
difinition

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'04'01
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 01.04.2016
10A
(4) Specifically identifying areas and families, which could be harmed or caused difficulty in
any disaster situation. In so identifying, particulars of students, children, elderly persons
and disabled persons should be marked separately.
(5) Deciding on strategies to provide relief to families who are harmed or caused difficulty in
any disaster situation.
(6) Identifying before the disaster occurs, places to temporarily lodge people who are displaced
by any disaster situation.
(7) Identifying before the incident strategies to provide food and drink to people who are
displaced due to any disaster situation, until they are re-settled in their homes.
(8) Identifying before the incident strategies to provide health protection facilities to the people
of the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Council, during any disaster situation.
(9) Identifying specific periods of time when any disaster situation is more likely to occur.
(10) Identifying alternative roads which could be used to ease traffic congestion in roads
caused by any disaster situation.
(11) Identifying the volume of rainfall that would cause inundation of roads during flood
situations, and how long it would take for such rainfall to cause inundation of roads.
(12) Identifying how long it would take for any area to be inundated by showers sufficiently
heavy to cause flooding, in any flood situation, and also identify places in the area which
would get flooded by unexpected showers which are caused by a cyclone or a storm situation
close to a cyclone.
(13) T ake action to install low-cost meters to monitor rainfall in a few selected locations within
the Municipal Council area, with the assistance of the Disaster Management Centre and
the Department of Meteorology, and to collect and keep the metered data.
(14) Identifying time periods during which the people of the Pradeshiya Sabha area are unable
to obtain drinking water from the systems presently in operation, and the causes for it.
(15) Identifying and mapping out places within the Municipal Council area which are vulnerable
to fires, that could cause harm to people and property.
(16) Identifying with the assistance of relevant technical institutions places with steep inclines
in the Municipal Council area, which are vulnerable to landslides.
(17) Identifying with the assistance of the relevant health institution strategies to control the
incidence and spread of epidemics in the Municipal Council area.
(18) Identifying and registering industries and industrialists who operate from a fixed place or
moving from place to place, within the Municipal Council area, using dangerous chemical
material which are highly inflammable or Could cause explosions.
(19) Among the duties entrusted to the Committee, ensuring that the data and information
collected relevant to Disaster Management are updated and maintained.
(20) Ensuring that a close relationship is maintained with the District Disaster Management
Centre of the District to which the Municipal Council belongs, and exchanging data and
information relating to Disaster Management, which are in the possession of the two
institutions, between the Municipal Council and the District Disaster Management Center.
(21) Identifying persons, institutions and non-governmental organizations, who are able to work
as relief groups and whose assistance could be easily obtained during a situation of disaster
or danger, and equipment in their possession.
(22) Identifying persons who are willing to work voluntarily in life-saving activities in a situation
of disaster or danger, registering them and submitting recommendations to the Municipal
Council to provide them with sufficient training.
(23) Submitting to the Municipal Council recommendations on equipment or other materials
which should be bought by the Municipal Council, to carry out pre-disaster warnings and
provide disaster relief.
(24) Submitting to the Municipal Council recommendations of the Committee on strategies
it has identified and data and information it has collected.
04-751
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.