

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 408 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 370
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"165 – 2020 fmnrjdß ui 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'02'28
No. 2,165 –  fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy 28, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th March, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th March, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
367 - b 82011- 5,403 (02/2020)


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
368
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
369
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the Sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ She shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. Since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
370
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  POLICE
Sub Inspector of Police and Woman Sub 
Inspector of Police (Radiographer/Pharmacist/
Electro-Cardiographer/Physiotherapist/medical 
Laboratory Technologist) of Support Services
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
for the Post of Probationary Sub inspector of Police and 
Woman Sub inspector of Police (Radiographer/Pharmacist/
Electro-cardiographer/Physiotherapist/Medical Laboratory 
technologist) in Support Services of Support Services of 
Sri Lanka Police. 
2. applications duly prepared according to the specimen 
application form given below should be sent to forwarded 
to the address, director/Recruitment, Police Recruitment 
division, No. 375, 1st floor Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi 
Mawatha, colombo - 06. the post you are applying for 
should be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope 
in which your application is enclosed and it should be 
forwarded by registered post to reach the above address on or 
before 28.04.2020. Late applications will not be considered 
and applications will not be issued by the Sri Lanka Police. 
03. Salary Scale.– Rs. 393,480 - 7x 4,440 - 2 x 5,940 -                                                                                                                          
25 x 7,920 - Rs. 634,440.00. as per the Public administration 
circular 3-2016, the above mentioned salary scale will be 
effected. 
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above salary 
scale, they will be paid following allowances :
 (a) cost of living allowance : Rs. 7,800.00
 (b) as per the P a.cir.03/2016, : Rs. 13,116.00
  it’s granted 40% of the 
  salary as allowance for 
  the relevant rank
 (c) interim allowances : Rs. 2,500.00
 (d) uniform cleaning 
  allowance : Rs. 250.00
 (e) arduous duty allowance : Rs. 2,000.00
  (f) combined allowance : Rs. 12,000.00 
       (Maximum areas where 
       special incentives 
       allowance are paid)
        Rs. 11,200.00
       (Maximum areas where 
       special incentives 
       allowance are not paid)
 
in addition to the above said allowances :
 (a)  free transport facilities ;
 (b)  Free medical facilities for officers  (Financial support 
can be obtained even for getting medical treatment 
abroad.) ;
 (c)  free medical facilities even for the members of the 
family ;
 (d) all the uniforms will be provided free of charge ;
 (e)  facilities to enhance one’s sports skills and inborn 
talents ;
 (f)  travelling expenses for duties outside workplace 
and financial rewards for exceptional performance 
and arduous services.
 (g) opportunities to follow merit-based local and 
foreign courses of studies.
04. Basic Qualifications required : 
 (a) Age Limit.– the applicants must be aged between 
18-30 years at the time of the closing date of 
the application as per the Gazette Notification. 
However on limited basis recruitment of 
police officers in police service at present, the 
maximum age limit is 35 years. 
Posts of Sub Inspector of Police (Radiographer) and 
Woman Sub Inspector of Police (Radiographer) of 
Support Services.
 (b) Educational Qualifications : 
  Having passed 03 subjects including 02 
from chemistry, biology, agriculture and 
combined mathematics with a credit pass 
for Physics at G. c. E. (a/L) examination 
in one and the same sitting ; 
  and 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
371
  Having passed 06 subjects including 
English with 04 credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil, Mathematics, Science and any other 
subject at G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one 
and the same sitting 
  or
  being a Radiographer fully registered at Sri 
Lanka Medical council.
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a degree in 
Radiography from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission. 
Note 01.– According to the subject classification 
of the Department of Examinations, two 
Science subjects bearing No. 41 and 44 
are considered as a single subject and 
two mathematics subjects bearing No. 
42 and 45 are also considered as a single 
subject when determining the number of 
subjects passed at the examination. 
 02.–  Despite having passed the practical test 
of the Technological Studies at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination, failing in the written 
test of the same subject is considered as 
having failed the said subject.  
  03.– Since the subjects, optional Tamil, 
English and Sinhala are not included in 
G. C. E. (O/L) subject stream, having 
passed those subjects is not considered 
as one of the subjects passed at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination. 
 (c) Professional Qualifications : 
   Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a Diploma Certificate 
after following a 02 year course on Radiography 
in the Ministry of Health ;
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a degree in Rediography 
from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission. 
Note.– Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are to be selected 
for a Radiographer training after  getting 
recruited through educational qualifications 
of G. C. E. (A/L) and G. C.  E. (O/L) 
 (d) experience :
  Professional experience is not relevant to 
the applicants who are to be selected for a 
Radiographer training after getting recruited 
through educational qualifications of G. C. E. 
(a/L) and G. c. E. (o/L).
Posts of Sub Inspector of Police (Pharmacist) and 
Woman Sub Inspector of Police (Pharmacist) of 
Support Services. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications :
  Having passed 03 subjects including chemistry 
and 02 subjects from combined Mathematics, 
Physics, biology and agriculture at G. c. E. 
(a/L) examination in one and the same sitting ;
  and
  Having passed 06 subjects including English 
with 04 credit passes for Sinhala/t amil, 
Mathematics, Science and any other subject at 
G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one and the same 
sitting ; 
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a degree in Pharmacy 
from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission ; 
  or
 * being a pharmacist holding an internal or 
external diploma serving as a pharmacist fully 
registered at Sri Lanka Medical council.
Note 01.– According to the subject classification 
of the Department of Examinations, two 
Science subjects bearing No. 41 and 44 
are considered as a single subject and 
two mathematics subjects bearing No. 
42 and 45 are also considered as a single 
subject when determining the number of 
subjects passed at the examination. 
 02.–  Despite having passed the practical test 
of the Technological Studies at G. C. E. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
372
(O/L) examination, failing in the written 
test of the same subject is considered as 
having failed the said subject.  
  03.– Since the subjects, optional Tamil, 
English and Sinhala are not included in 
G. C. E. (O/L) subject stream, having 
passed those subject is not considered 
as one of the subjects passed at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination. 
 (c) Professional Qualifications :
  Having registered as a pharmacist of the 
Medical council by completing an internship 
of one year after getting through internal 
Pharmacists Examination of Medical council 
or getting through the External Pharmacists’ 
Examination conducted by the ceylon Medical 
college council ;
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a degree in pharmacy 
from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission. 
Note.–  Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are to be selected for 
a pharmacist training after getting recruited 
through educational qualifications of G. C. E. 
(a/L) and G. c. E. (o/L).
 (d) experience :
  Should have experience for a period not less 
than 06 months in the relevant field obtained 
from Ministry of Health or from an institution 
registered in the Ministry of Health. 
Note.–  Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are to be selected for 
a pharmacist training after getting recruited 
through educational qualifications of G. C. E. 
(a/L) and G. c. E. (o/L).
Posts of Sub Inspector of Police (Electro-
cardiographer) and Woman Sub Inspector of Police 
(Electro-cardiographer) of Support Services. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications :
  Having passed 03 subjects including chemistry 
and Physics with a credit pass for biology at  
G. c. E. (a/L) examination in one and the same 
sitting ;
  and
  Having passed 06 subjects including English 
with 04 credit passes for Sinhala/t amil, 
Mathematics, Science and any other subject at 
G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one and the same 
sitting ; 
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
Council after getting the Diploma Certificate in 
Electrocardiogram.
Note 01.– According to the subject classification of 
the department of Examinations, two 
Science subjects bearing No. 41 and 44 
are considered as a single subject and two 
Mathematics subjects bearing No. 42 and 
45 are also considered as a single subject 
when determining the number of subjects 
passed at the examination. 
 02.–  despite having passed the practical test of 
the technological Studies at G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination, failing in the written test of 
the same subject is considered as having 
failed the said subject.  
  03.– Since the subjects, optional tamil, English 
and Sinhala are not included in G. c. E. 
(o/L) subject stream, having passed 
those subjects is not considered as one 
of the subjects passed at G. c. E. (o/L) 
examination. 
 (c) Professional Qualifications :
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council and having obtained a diploma 
certificate after following a training course 
during a training period as per the up-to-
date circulars in the Ministry of Health or 
01 year Service in Ministry of Health as an 
Electrocardiogram technician  ;
Note.–  Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are be selected for 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
373
Electro-cardiographer training after getting 
recruited through educational qualifications 
of G. c. E. (a/L) and G. c. E. (o/L).
 (d) experience :
  Should have experience for a period not less 
than 06 months in the relevant field obtained 
from Ministry of Health or from an institution 
registered in the Ministry of Health. 
Note.–  Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are be selected for  
Electro-cardiographer training after getting 
recruited through educational qualifications 
of G. c. E. (a/L) and G. c. E. (o/L).
Posts of Sub Inspector of Police (Physiotherapist) 
and Woman Sub Inspector of Police (Physiotherapist) 
of Support Services. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications :
  Having passed 03 subjects including 02 
subjects from chemistry, biology, combined 
Mathematics and agriculture with a credit pass 
for Physics at G. c. E. (a/L) examination in 
one and the same sitting ;
  and
  Having passed 06 subjects including English 
with 04 credit passes for Sinhala/t amil, 
Mathematics, Science and any other subjects at 
G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one and the same 
sitting ; 
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after getting through the full time 
02 years course conducted by School of 
physiotheraphy and occupational therapy under 
Ministry of Health. 
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a degree in 
Physiotheraphy from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission. 
Note 01.– According to the subject classification 
of the Department of Examinations, two 
Science subjects bearing No. 41 and 44 
are considered as a single subject and 
two mathematics subjects bearing No. 
42 and 45 are also considered as a single 
subjects determining the number of 
subjects passed at the examination. 
 02.–  Despite having passed the practical test 
of the Technological studies at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination, failing in the written 
test of the same subject is considered as 
having failed the said subject.  
  03.– Since the subjects, optional Tamil, 
English and Sinhala are not included in 
G. C. E. (O/L) subject stream, having 
passed those subjects is not considered 
as one of the subjects passed at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination. 
 (c) Professional Qualifications :
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after getting through the full time 
02 years course conducted by School of 
physiotherapy and occupational therapy under 
Ministry of Health ;
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a degree in 
Physiotherapy from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission. 
Note.–  Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are be selected for 
a Physiotherapy training after getting 
recruited through educational qualifications 
of G. c. E. (a/L) and G. c. E. (o/L).
 (d) experience :
  Should have experience for a period not less 
than 06 months in the relevant field obtained 
from Ministry of Health or from an institution 
registered in the Ministry of Health. 
Note.–  Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are be selected for 
a Physiotherapy training after getting 
recruited through educational qualification 
of G. C. E. (A/L) and G. C. E. (O/L).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
374
Posts of  Sub Inspector of Police (medical Laboratory 
Technologist) and Woman Sub Inspector of Police 
(medical Laboratory Technologist) of Support 
Services. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications :
  Having passed 03 subjects including 02 subjects 
from combined Mathematics, biology, Physics 
and agriculture with a credit pass for chemistry 
at G. c. E. (a/L) examination in one and the 
same sitting ;
  and
  Having passed 06 subjects including English 
with 04 credit passes for Sinhala/t amil, 
Mathematics, Science and any other subject at 
G. c. E. (o/L) examination in one and the same 
sitting ; 
Note 01. According to the subject classification of 
the Department of Examinations, two 
Science subjects bearing No. 41 and 
44 are considered as a single subject 
and two mathematics subjects bearing 
No. 42 and 45 are also considered as a 
single subject determining the number of 
subjects passed at the examination. 
 02.  Despite having passed the practical test 
of the Technological Studies at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination, failing in the written 
test of the same subject is considered as 
having failed the said subject.  
  03. Since the subjects, optional Tamil, 
English and Sinhala are not included in 
G. C. E. (O/L) subject stream, having 
passed those subjects is not considered 
as one of the subjects passed at G. C. E. 
(O/L) examination.
 (c) Professional Qualifications :
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council and having obtained a diploma 
certificate after following a 02 year course on 
Medical Laboratory technology in a training 
School under Ministry of Health ;
  or
  Having fully registered in Sri Lanka Medical 
council after obtaining a degree on Medical 
Laboratory technology from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission. 
Note.– Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are to be selected 
for a medical Laboratory Technology 
training after getting recruited through 
educational qualifications of G. C. E. 
(A/L) and G. C. E. (O/L).
 (d) experience :
  Should have experience for a period not less 
than 06 months in the relevant field obtained 
from Ministry of Health or from an institution 
registered in the Ministry of Health. 
Note.– Professional qualifications are not relevant 
to the applicants who are be selected for 
medical Laboratory Technology training 
after getting recruited through educational 
qualifications of G. C. E. (A/L) and G. C. E. 
(O/L).
 (e) Physical Requirements :
 Male
  Height should not be less than 05 feet and 06 
inches
  chest should not be less than 32 inches (during 
expiration)
female
  Height should not be less than 05 feet and 04 
inches
  chest measurement not applicable.
Note.– With regard to the applicants with special 
qualifications and skills, these height and 
chest measurements are subject to deviate 
from the above at the discretion of the 
Inspector General of Police. 
 (f) Vision Requirements : Vision of one eye should not 
be less than 6/12. if the vision of one eye is 6/6 
and 6/18 of the other eye, that is also acceptable. 
colour vision should be normal.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
375
 (g) Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) applicants should have maintained an excellent 
character which is expected by the Sri Lanka 
Police,
 (iii) Should be bachelors/spinsters (divorcees and 
widow/widowers are not qualified to apply). 
this is not applicable for those who are already 
in Police Service or nursing service,
 (iv) Should be prepared to work anywhere in the 
country,
 (v) Should not have undergone body modifications 
(eg. : tattoos)
 (vi) Qualifications mentioned in the application 
from 4(a) to 4(g) which are required for the post 
are expected to be fully acquired by the date 
mentioned in the notice inviting applications/
Gazette notification. 
 (h) Physical Requirements :
  all the applicants should be physically and 
mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post and 
to work anywhere within Sri Lanka. 
5. Method of Recruitment :
 5.1 Preliminary Interview :
  only the applicants who have gained the basic 
qualifications will be called for the preliminary 
interview. During the interview, qualifications 
from 4(a) to 4(g) mentioned above will be 
checked. 
  
 5.2 Physical Fitness Test :
  Physical fitness of the applicants will be tested 
by a board of officers appointed by the Inspector 
General of Police. 
 5.3 only the applicants who get through this test will 
be qualified to face the structured interview. 
 5.4 Structured interview (applicants with professional 
qualifications/to be recruited to reserve police 
service)
for the post of Sub Inspector of Police (Radiographer 
and medical Laboratory Technologist) and Woman 
Sub Inspector of Police (Radiographer and medical 
Laboratory Technologist) of Support Services. 
During the structured interview, qualifications will also 
be examined. 
Main headings under which 
marks are given Maximum
Mark
Cut-off 
mark for 
selection
01. Profession Qualifications :
Having obtained full registration 
from the Sri Lanka Medical 
council after getting a degree 
on Radiography/Medical 
Laboratory technology 
approved by the university 
Grant commission 
or
the diploma in Radiography/
Medical Laboratory 
technology recognized by 
the Ministry of Health and 
obtained full registration 
from the Sri Lanka Medical 
council
40 Not 
applicable
02. Service Experience :
Service experience from a health 
institution recognized by the 
Ministry of Health (04) marks 
for each year
20
03. Language proficiency/
computer literacy/other 10
04. Sports skills 10
05. Leadership/community 
services 10
06. Evaluation of the interview 
board 10
10 40%
for the post of Sub Inspector of Police (Pharmacist/
Electro Cardiographer/Physiotherapist) Woman 
Sub Inspector of Police (Pharmacist/Electro 
Cardiographer/Physiotherapist).

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
376
During the structured interview, qualifications will also be examined :
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum
Mark
Cut-off mark for 
selection
01. Service Experience related to the profession (Maximum 30 marks and 06 marks for 
each year) 30
Not applicable
02. Language proficiency/computer literacy/other 25
03. Sports skills 10
04. Leadership/community Services 25
05. Evaluation of the interview board 10
100 40%
 5.5 Structured interview (for recruiting applicants who have not gained professional qualifications) 
  During the structured interview, qualifications will also be examined. 
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum
Mark
Cut-off mark for 
selection
02. Language proficiency/computer literacy/other 30
Not applicable02. Sports skills 30
03. Leadership/community Services 30
04. Evaluation of the interview board 10
total 100 40%
 5.6 authority appointing the structured interview board : 
  Appointing authority or the officer authorized by the appointing authority. 
 5.7 Only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be qualified to face the structured 
interview. only the applicants who score 40% or above at the structured interview will be called for the 
written examination. 
 5.8 Written Examination (Not applicable for officers who are recruited to Police reserve service) :
Subjects Maximum Marks Qualified Marks
01. Comprehension and language proficiency 100 40%
02. i. Q. test 100 40%
03. General knowledge related to health sector 100 40%
 5.9 Authority Holding the examination :
  Authority Holding the Examination or the officer authorized by the Authority Holding the Examination. 
 5.10 t otal marks of the applicants will be calculated by adding the marks obtained from the structured interview 
and the marks obtained from the Written Examination. 
 5.11 Recruitment is made based on a merit list of total marks scored depending on the number of vacancies 
available on the last date of calling applications. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
377
06. Background Check : 
 6.1 a background check will be conducted to make 
sure that the applicants who have been quailfied to 
recruit as mentioned under above 5.11 paragraph 
have maintained a good character.
Note : there should not be any criminal reports 
regarding the applicant’s next of kin, 
applicant’s mother, father, guardians, 
siblings and if the siblings are married, 
their spouses are also considered as next 
of kin. 
 6.2 background checks will also be carried out on the 
applicant, on his/her next of kin and on his/her 
close companions and applicants with negative 
background check reports will not be recruited. 
 6.3 Providing false information during recruitment by 
applicants will results in disqualification. If it is 
revealed, after recruitment, that false information 
had been provided, service will be terminated at 
any time. 
 6.4 the applicants to be recruited according to the 
merit list will not be called for Medical test until 
background reports of the applicants are received. 
07. Medical Test.– the applicants who have been 
selected for the medical test should pass the medical test 
conducted by the Chief Medical Officer of Police Hospital. 
in addition, a test will be performed on the applicants to 
check whether they are physically and mentally fit for the 
duties in the police hospital. the medical test reports should 
be presented by Chief Medical Officer under health 169 
form. an applicant can take the medical test only once. 
08. Training :
8.1 direct Recruitment ;
 only the applicants who have passed the 
background check and the medical test will be 
called for 12 week training on a date specified 
by the inspector General of Police.
8.2 Candidates who are not professionally quailfied 
will be sent to follow the three-year professional 
training conducted for this profession by the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine after their basic training. 
8.3 Confirmation of appointments of officers who 
do not successfully complete full time three year 
professional training in the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine will be 
suspended until the successful completion of the 
professional training. in addition, appointments 
of officers who do not successfully complete 
the training or who are unable to get through the 
final examination within all three attempts given 
will be cancelled. 
09. Service Conditions : 
 1. The probationary officers directly recruited with 
or without professional qualifications, should 
serve a probation period/apprenticeship of three 
years and officers recruited on limited basis should 
complete one year acting period. (Not applicable 
for officers recruited for Reserve Police Service). If 
getting married during probation period, a special 
permission should be obtained from inspector 
General of Police ;
 
 2. Confirmation of the probationary officers directly 
recruited on the basis of advanced Level results 
and officers recruited on limited basis will be 
suspended until they successfully complete the 
professional training. If the officers recruited 
on limited basis will not be able to complete 
professional training successfully, their ranks will 
be reverted to the previous ranks on timely basis. 
(Not applicable for officers recruited for Reserve 
Police Service) ;
 3. the selected applicants shall act in conformity 
with any orders or circulars already made or 
may hereafter be made to implement the Official 
Language Policy. (Not applicable for officers 
recruited for Reserve Police Service) ;
 4. Should abide by the provisions of Establishment 
code, financial Regulations, circulars of National 
Police commission, circulars of Public Service 
commission, Public administration circulars, 
treasury circulars, Police orders, i. G. P. circulars, 
Hand books and instruction codes and provisions 
thereof ;
 5. Directly recruited officers on G. C. E. Advanced 
Level results and the officers recruited on limited 
basis should serve a compulsroy service period of 
15 years in Sri Lanka Police after completion of 
three-year professional training and from the date 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
378
of receiving the professional training certificate and the registration of Sri Lanka Medical Council. (Not applicable 
for officers recruited for Reserve Police Service) ;
 6. they should sign a bond giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses, should there be any that had been 
spent for his/her training and other expenses including uniforms at the time he/she is handing over the resignation 
letter in the event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his/her compulsory service 
period. Measures will be taken as per the provisions of Establishment code and Procedural Rules of Public Service 
Commission in relation to the resignation. (Not applicable for officers recruited for Reserve Police Service) ;
 7. Officers of direct recruitment should be free from all the loans and loan commitments prior to taking up the 
appointment. (Not applicable for officers recruited for Reserve Police Service) ;
 8. Probationary Sub inspectors of Police (Support Services)/Woman Sub inspectors of Police (Support Services) 
should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with Police Code of conduct as per the 
constitution of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and together with inspector General Poilce circular No. 
1693/2003 and 1804/2004 as soon as they start the training.
10. Efficiency Bars :
The type of Efficiency Bar Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency Bar 
written examination/Professional 
Examination/Certificate Course/Other
First Efficiency Bar 
Examination (Confirmation 
of Service)
before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of Sub 
inspector of Police (Support Services)
oral, Written and Practical
Second Efficiency Bar 
Examination 
before completion of 07 years after 
getting appointed to the post of Sub 
inspector of Police (Support Services)
oral, Written and Practical
Third Efficiency Bar 
Examination
before completion of 05 years after 
getting appointed to the post of Sub 
inspector of Police (Support Services)
oral, Written and Practical
11. Language Proficiency :
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Official Language Officers recruited through a medium that is not an official language should 
obtain the proficiency for the relevant official language as per the Public 
administration circular No. 01/2014 and other related circulrs
Other official Language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Pulic Administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and other related circulars
Link Language Not applicable
12. applicants should send the copies of the followig documents attached to their applications (original documents 
should not be submitted) :
 (a) Birth Certificate ;
 (b) Recently obtained two character certificates (from non-related persons) ;
 (c)  Certificates to verify educational qualifications ;
 (d)  Certificates on sports with special records or certificates obtained for extracurricular activities ;

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
379
 (e) Certificate for experience of service (only if 
available) ;
 (f) National identity card.
13.
 13.1 applicants who are already in the Public Service 
should forward their applications through the 
relevant Heads of department. those applications 
should accompany a certificate indicating that the 
applicant can be released if selected. 
 13.2 applicants should be completed in applicant’s 
own handwriting on 11”x8” papers and should 
be sent along with the relevant copies of the 
certificates to the address mentioned in the 
‘paragraph 02’. under any circumstances, the 
application should not be handed over personally 
to any officer.
14. applications that do not conform to the requirements 
of this notification, will be rejected. Replies will not be sent 
to such applicants in that regard. 
Note.–  travelling or any other expense will not be 
paid to the applicants who are called for 
interviews and examinations. 
 
C. D. WiCkramaratne, 
 Acting inspector General of Police. 
Police Headquarters, 
colombo 01.
For office use only
SRi  LaNka  PoLicE 
Specimen application Form For the poSt oF Sub 
inSpector oF police (radiographer/pharmaciSt/electro 
cardiographer/phySiotherapiSt/medical laboratory 
technologiSt) and Woman Sub inSpector oF police 
(radiographer/pharmaciSt/electro cardiographer/
phySiotherapiSt/medical laboratory technologiSt) oF 
Support ServiceS  
01.  (a) Name in full :–––––––––––.
   (in clear and legible handwriting) Should be exactly  
  as mentioned in the Birth Certificate
  (b) Name (with initials) :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied :––––––––––.
02. National identity card Number :––––––––––.
 (a copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father’s full name :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat of the relevant birth place :–––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Relevant Police Station of present address :––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Relevant Police Station of permanent address :                 
––––––––––.
  (e) Grama Niladhari’ division of relevant permanent 
address :––––––––––.
   divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
  (f) Mailing address :––––––––––.
  (g) t elephone No. :––––––––––.
   Home :––––––––––.   Mobile :––––––––––.
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b)  Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by descent or  
  by registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration, kindly produce that certificate)
  (c)  if you become a citizen by descent, mention the  
  birthplace of :–
   applicant :––––––––––.
  applicant’s father :––––––––––.
  applicant’s paternal Grandfather :––––––––.
  a pplicant’s paternal great Grandfather :–––––––––.
07. date of birth :––––––––––. 
 (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of this Gazette Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest : inches :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (Should mention the 
examinations passed and the copies of the relevant 
certificates should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
11. Marital status :––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
380
12.  (a) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (b) are you a member of the armed forces ? :–––––––.
13. Do you possess special skills or qualifications ? :–––––.
14. Names and addresses of two non-related referees :
  (a) ––––––––––.
  (b) ––––––––––.
15. Have you ever served in the Sri Lanka Police ? :––––––––––.
 Post and Rank No. :––––––––––.
 if yes, indicate the reasons for you to resign from the post :––––––––––.
16. (a) are you currently serving in an armed force ? if yes, the application should be forwarded through the commanding 
Officer of the respective force :––––––––––.
 (b) Have you ever served in Armed Forces ? If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of legal discharge :–––––––.
17. (a) are you attached to V olunteer armed forces ? if yes application should be forwarded through the commanding 
Officer of the respective force :––––––––––.
  (b) Have you been attached to V olunteer Armed Forces ? If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of legal discharge 
:––––––––––.
18. Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any offence ? Have you ever been accused of an offence 
or summoned or punished by a court ? (if yes, please provide the details) :––––––––––.
19. Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any offence ? Has anyone ever been 
accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a court ? (if yes, please provide the details)  :–––––––––.
i certify that the above particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, my service in the Police 
Service, in the event of appointed, is liable to be terminated without any compensation. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of the Department (Only if relevant) :
i, hereby declare that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................................. forwarding this application is serving in the 
department/corporation/board of ....................................... and that he/she can be released for the new post if he/she is 
selected for this post. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and Stamp of the Head of the department.
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
02–663

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
381
SRI LANkA REGuLAR AIR fORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies
1. V acaNciES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular air force 
for Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following 
branches.
(a) General duties Pilot branch (Male)
(b) t echnical Engineering branch (Male/female)
(c) Electronics Engineering branch (Male)
(d) Logistics branch (Male/female)
(e) administrative branch (Male)
(f) administrative Regiment branch (Male/female) 
(g) Operations Air Branch (Air Traffic Controller) 
(Male)
(h) Provost branch (Male)
(i) administrative band branch (Male)
(j) information technology Engineering branch 
(Male)
2.  applications are invited from Male / female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below.
3. SPECIfIC QuALIfICATIONS (DEGREE 
PROGRAmmE) bSc (aviation Studies) degree Entrant 
Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir John 
kotelawala defence university). further candidates who are 
applying for the degree programme are to indicate whether 
they have qualified and applied for University admission 
when indicating a/L results in the application form.
(a) General Duties Pilot / Operations Air (Air 
Traffic Controller) Branches 
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language in one sitting (additional and optional 
subjects are not considered) and Simple (S) passes 
in three subjects at the GcE (a/L) examination in 
Physical Science / bio Science and technology 
Streams (as applicable) in one sitting. 
(b) Technical (Aeronautical) Engineering / 
Electronics Engineering branches
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language in one sitting (additional and optional 
subjects are not considered) and Simple (S) passes 
in three subjects at the GcE (a/L) examination in 
Physical Science (combined Maths, Physics and 
chemistry) Streams in one sitting.
(c) Logistics/Administrative/ Administrative Regiment 
/ Provost branches
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language in one sitting (additional and optional 
subjects are not considered) and Simple (S) passes 
in three subjects at the GcE (a/L) examination in 
Physical / bio Science / commerce / technology 
/ arts Streams in one sitting. (candidates over 
height of 5’ 8” (Male) will have an advantage 
when enlisting to Provost branch)
(d) Information Technology Engineering branch
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory credit 
(c) passes for English language, Science, 
Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass and above for 
Sinhala / tamil language in one sitting (additional 
and optional subjects are not considered) and 
Simple (S) passes in three subjects at the GcE 
(a/L) examination in technology Stream with 
information and communication technology or 
Physical Science Stream in one sitting.
(e) Administrative band branch
 a  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE 
(o/L) examination with compulsory credit (c) 
passes for English language, Science, Mathematics 
and Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language and Western Music as an aesthetic subject 
in one sitting (additional and optional subjects are 
not considered) and three passes in three subjects 
at the GcE (a/L) examination in arts stream 
including Western Music, oriental Music with 
credit pass in one sitting or candidates with three 
pass in any other stream should have passes Grade 
five of any Internationally recognized institution 
(trinity, Royal, LcM or any other) or three years 
or more experience in Western brass bands/ 
Western cadet bands.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
382
 ability to play woodwind, brass wind or 
percussion instruments, ability to arrange Music 
for brass bands and ability to conducting ensemble 
group will be an added qualification.
4. SPECIfIC QuALIfICATIONS (NON DEGREE 
PROGRAmmE)
General Duties Pilot / Administrative / Administrative 
Regiment branches 
a Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE (o/L) 
examination with compulsory credit (c) passes for English 
language, Science, Mathematics and a Simple (S) pass and 
above for Sinhala / tamil language in one sitting (additional 
and optional subjects are not considered)
5. Special Note:-  Pearson / Edexcel - international 
ordinary / advance Level, GcSE, GcE and cambridge 
exam qualification may be considered subjected to a 
confirmation obtained from the Department of Examination, 
Sri Lanka, to effect  that it is equalant to above basic 
educational qualifications. 
6. Other Requirements.–  Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka 
Regular air force.
(a) Nationality :-  Must be a citizen of 
   Sri Lanka
(b) age :-  Not less than 18 years and  
  not more than 22 years as  
  at 15
th July 2020
(c) Height :-  Male  - 167.5cm (5’ 6”) 
   and  above
      female - 162.5cm (5 ’ 4”)  
  and  above
(d) Weight  :-  Male - 17 < bMi < 26     
     f emale - 17 < bMi < 25                 
    Weight (kg)   bMi =  ––––––––––
    Height (m)2
(e) chest  :-  Male - 32’’ (Minimum)
(f) colour Vision :-  cP2
 Standard
(g) Visual acuity :- Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
   (Wi thout spectacles / 
   contact Lens)
(h) civil Status :- candidates must be 
unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry 
whilst under training and for a further period of one 
(1) year from the date of commissioning.
7. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
8. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of para 3 and 4 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be 
measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight are 
below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and 
who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
9. Any candidate who has special skill / qualifications 
may at the discretion of the commander of the air force be 
considered, even though he / she does not have any of above 
pre-requisites, provided that he/she possess the requisite of 
the Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest 
of the Sri Lanka air force. 
10. Conditions of Service :
(a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air 
force as a cadet on a regular engagement in 
the same manner as for other Ranks and will 
undergo a basic combat training course. on 
successful completion of training, the duration 
of which will depend on the branch, the status 
allocated on his / her enlistment as an other 
Rank will lapse and will receive a Permanent 
Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) cadets will be required to undergo training at 
a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by 
the commander of the air force in consultation 
with the Ministry of defence.
(c) during the period of training as cadets and 
thereafter, personnel will be subjected to air 
force Law.
(d) Every cadet will be provided all items of 
uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
(e) during the period of training, a cadet will be 
accommodated in an air force Mess and will be 
provided with food.
(f) in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating 
his / her candidature for a commission during 
training, the parent or guardian will be required 
to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all 
expenses incurred up to that time by the 
Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such cadet.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
383
(g) if at any time during his / her course a 
cadet is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his / her control to qualify for a 
commission, his / her parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the Sri Lanka air force all 
expenses incurred on his / her training and will 
be required to enter into a bond to this effect 
with the commander of the air force acting on 
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as 
given in cage 28 of the application form in 
respect of sub paragraphs (f) and (g) above, 
and forward them together with the application. 
Parent or guardian will be required to enter in 
to a bond subsequently in this form with the 
Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment 
of these candidates as cadets.
(j) candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 3 and 4 will be called for the Preliminary 
interview and if successful will be called for 
Medical Examinations and all candidates 
selected will be medically examined under Sri 
Lanka air force arrangements to check the 
suitability in par with the Sri Lanka air force 
Medical fitness standards. The General Duties 
Pilots branch candidates, if successful will be 
called for the flying aptitude tests. all the 
branch candidates if successful will be called 
for the Officer Quality Tests. Thereafter, if 
successful all the candidates will be called 
for the familiarization training programme. 
candidates who successfully complete these 
tests will be called for the final interview. 
the required number of candidates per branch 
will be selected according to merit at these 
interviews and tests.
(j) A single Officer is required to live in the Officers 
Mess. He / She is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. batman service will 
be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance 
and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
(k) A married Officer may be provided with a 
married quarter if available. Recovery of rental 
will be as applicable to public servants. 
(l) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
(m) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act 
and orders issued from time to time.
11. Official Language Requirements : the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act No 33 of 1956.
12. Pay and Allowances.
(a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at 
present, and same revision completes in year 
2020, followings are the amounts payable in 
2020. further it is to be noted that all consolidated 
salaries indicated below are the initial step of 
particular grade.
 
Year 2020
(Annual)Rank
Officer Cadets Rs. 388,560.00
Pilot Officer (Cadet) Rs. 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non 
cadet)
Rs. 502,860.00
Flying Officer Rs. 571,380.00 - (30x16020)  = 
Rs. 1,051,980.00
flight Lieutenant Rs. 667,500.00 – (24x16020) = 
Rs. 1,051,980.00
Squadron Leader Rs. 731,580.00 – (22x16020) = 
Rs. 1,084,020.00
Wing commander Rs. 751,140.00 -  (17x19560) = 
Rs. 1,083,660.00
     
(b) Other Allowances :
 (1) cost of living allowance of Rs. 7800/- per 
month.
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250/- per month 
after five years of service.
 (3) Hard allowance Rs.620/- Per month.
 (4) additional Hard allowance Rs. 4380/- per 
month for those serving in operational areas.
 (5) Special allowance Rs. 3,100/- per month.
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000/- per month. 
(the existing rate is amend as per the budget 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
384
proposal in 2019-amounted rate Rs.2500.00 
per month).
 (7) uniform upkeep allowance Rs.525.00 per 
month.
 (8) batman allowance Rs. 637.50/- per month 
(if permitted to live out).
 (9) Ration allowance Rs. 24005.47 per month 
(if permitted to live out Rs.774.37 per day).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) Rent allowance for married Officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
- Pilot Officer to Squadron Leader and above 
Rs.3,200.00 to Rs. 8,500.00 per month)
 (12) t elephone bill allowance. Wing commander 
to air Vice Marshal  Rs.2,500.00 to                             
Rs. 5,000.00 per month. 
 (13) three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (For Officer, spouse & children).
 (14) an additional set of railway warrants or 
the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers 
living in Messes to travel from the Mess to 
the hometown once a month.
 (15) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (16) free medical facilities (including for 
families if applicable).
 
 (17) Married Officers permitted to live - out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.
 (18) flying pay will be paid for those who are in 
the General duties Pilot branch.
 (19) Engineering allowances Rs.15,000.00 per 
month. (Applicable to Engineering Officers 
only)
13. Pensions/Gratuities. Pensions / Gratuities:-  Payable 
in terms of the air force Pensions and Gratuities code 
1981 and as amended from time to time. All Officers are 
contributors to the Widows and orphans Pension (armed 
force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows 
and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 
1970.
14. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) applications should be submitted in applicant’s 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. all cages of the application should 
be completed neatly with as much details as 
possible. applications should be forwarded 
under registered cover to : “COmmAND 
RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR 
fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, 
kOTuGODA”  so  as  to  reach   him  not  
later  than 1200  noon  on 20
th march 2020. the 
envelope enclosing the application should be 
marked “APPLICATION fOR CADETShIP / 
LADy CADETShIP IN ThE………………… 
bRANCh. a candidate will be allowed to apply 
for only one branch and if they apply for more 
than one branch the applications will be rejected. 
applications received after the closing date and 
not in accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will 
not be entertained. 
(b) candidates who are in Government Service / 
corporations / boards /   civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
Heads of department / corporations / boards / 
Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
  
(c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the 
following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a 
photo copy. (Certificate issued for the purpose 
of the education code will not be accepted).
(2) National identity card and a photo copy.
(3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photo copies.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
385
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training and 
/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and photo copies.
(5) Two recent certificates of character (within 
06 months obtained). one of these should be 
from the Principal of the last school attended 
and the other from a responsible person who 
has knowledge of the applicant for more than 
two years or from the present employer (if 
employed).
(6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and extra curricular activities and 
photo copies.
(7)  A plain folder with file tag.
(8)  Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified 
by the Grama Niladari.
(d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
    
15.   any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
16. Selection Interviews :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above 
conditions. candidates so selected will be 
required to undergo tests as may be prescribed 
by the Commander of the Air Force. The final 
selection will then be made after an interview 
of those selected candidates by a selection board 
appointed by the Ministry of defence.
(b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date 
of such interviews. traveling or other expenses 
will not be paid in this respect.
(c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / her 
National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
(d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo written, practical and Officer Quality 
test during the selection process. 
(e) all candidates who are selected are required 
to undergo a medical screening test as per Sri 
Lanka air force Medical Standard during the 
selection process.
(f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his / her testimonial. 
Any form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
(g) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
     
 dLS 
diaS,   
   RWP, RSP and three bars, VSV , uSP, MSc 
 (def & Strat Stu), ndc, psc
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po box 594,
colombo 02.
Official use only
aPPLicatioN  foR  officER  cadEt / Lady 
officER  cadEt  iN  tHE ……………………….. 
bRaNcH  of  tHE  SRi  LaNka  aiR  foRcE
01. Nationality :––––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card) :––––––.
03. National identity card Number :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
05.  Postal address :––––––––––––.
06. date of birth :––––––––––––.
 (age as at 15
th July 2020)
 y ears :––––––––. Months :––––––––.days :––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
386
07. Height: - …………cm    (………..feet ……….inches)
08. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––––––––.
09. district :––––––––––––.
10. Electorate :––––––––––––.
11. Grama Niladhari division :––––––––––––.
12. t elephone number :––––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :––––––––––––.
14. Gender  :––––––––––––.
15. School attended :––––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained :-
Name of 
School Type of examination Year and Index number 
of the  examination
Subjects passed      
(including grading)
ordinary Level
advanced Level 
(To mention whether qualified 
or not to apply for university 
admission)
 yes            No 
General English
common General test
other/Professional
17. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School: - (if applicable) 
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
                        
19. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Father’ s & 
Mother’ s NIC No. Occupation Present addressPast Present

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
387
20. details of current achievements in sports (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates / 
years etc. and standards / levels achieved) :–––––––––.
21. other achievements of note at School or with outside 
organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.) : 
––––––––––––.
22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps Scouting  organization :––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air force 
or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications :––––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
25. if earlier employed in a Government department or in 
the Public Sector / board / corporation (including the 
central bank, National bank, universities, Joint Stock 
companies controlled by the Government etc) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name designation Postal address
27. declaration to be signed by the applicant:- 
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri 
Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic of 
Sri Lanka.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
28. declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of 
the applicant:
(a) i am the Parent / Guardian of ……………………
who is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka 
air force and who has signed the declaration in 
cage 27 of the form of application above. 
(b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following.
(1) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in 
the event of the above named applicant 
voluntarily terminating his / her candidature 
for a commission during his / her period of 
training all expenses incurred up to that time 
by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account of 
such applicant.
(2) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by the authorities as being unsuitable 
(for reasons of misconduct or due to causes 
within his / her own control) for the issue of a 
commission all the expenses incurred on his / 
her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of Parent /Guardian.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
 
                   
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of first Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Second Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
02–702

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
388
SRI LANkA REGuLAR / vOLuNTEER AIR 
fORCE
Airmen / Airwomen vacancies
1. V acaNciES exist in the Regular / V olunteer force 
of the Sri Lanka air force for airmen / airwomen in the 
trades given below and the required minimum and specific 
qualifications are stated against.
Basic Education Qualification :
2. Passes of six (06) passes at the GcE (o/L) Examination 
from not more than two sittings, including a simple (S) pass 
in Sinhala or tamil and English language. 
Specific Qualification :
3. The specific qualification as per the trade is as follows :
(a) Aeronautical Engineering Trades (Male/female) 
    
(1) aircraft Structural technician 
(2) aircraft Engine technician 
(3) aircraft Electrical & instrument technician 
(4) aircraft Safety Equipment technician  
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / 
tamil, and English languages. a credit pass 
for Mathematics / Science is essential.
 and
 Priority will be given to aircraft Electrical 
& instrument technician has successful 
completion of two year fulltime National 
Certificate Course in Engineering Craft 
Practice (Electronics / Electrical) at a 
technical college recognized by the Ministry 
of V ocational and t echnical training or 
equivalent.
(b) General Engineering Trades (male).
 (1) armament Mechanic. 
 (2) Motor transport Mechanic.
 (3) Surface technician.
 (4) Sheet Metal Worker.
 (5) carpenter Mechanic.   
 (6) General Mechanic. 
 (7) aircraft Welder. 
 (8) air Photographer technician. 
 (9) turner. 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / tamil, 
English languages, Mathematics and Science. 
a credit pass for Mathematics / Science will be 
an added qualification.
 (10) operator Motor transport (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil 
and English language. Possession of a driving 
license is an added advantage for consideration 
(c) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering 
Trades. (male) 
(1) air Radio t echnician. 
(2) t elecommunication technician. 
      
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / 
tamil, and English languages, Mathematics 
and Science. a credit pass for Mathematics / 
Science is essential.
(3) t elephonist.
(4) air communicator.
    
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil 
and English languages. 
(d) medical Trades (male / female).
(1) Nursing assistant (Male / female)
     
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple pass in English language 
and credit passes in Sinhala / tamil/ 
Mathematics/ Science and one other subject. 
Having following passes at the GcE (a/L) 
Examination from Science / maths Stream in 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
389
one sitting will be added advantage for selection and a qualification for advance training under Ministry of 
Health services mentioned therein.
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/L) examination with simple 03 
passes for biology / Combined maths / Agri Science  streams in GcE 
(a/L) examination in one sitting.     
-   Nursing diploma
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/L) examination with two 
simple passes from biology/Combined maths/ Physics and credit pass 
for Chemistry in GcE (a/L) examination in one sitting.
-  Pharmacist 
 Medical Laboratory technologist
   
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/L) examination with two 
simple passes from Chemistry, Physics and credit pass for biology in 
GcE (a/L) examination in one sitting.
- EcG / 
  EEG technician (Male)
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/L) examination with two 
simple passes for Chemistry, Combined maths and credit pass for 
Physics, biology in GcE (a/L) examination in one sitting.
- X Ray technician (Male)
  ophthalmic tech(Male)
Having credit pass for English in GcE (o/L) examination two simple 
passes from Chemistry, Physics/ Agri Science and credit pass for 
biology/ Combined maths in GcE (a/L) examination in one sitting.
- afHi (Male)
   
(b) dental assistant   (Male / female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) Examination at not more than two sittings including Simple (S)  pass in 
English language and credit passes in Sinhala / tamil language, Mathematics, Science and one other subject. 
Having three passes at the GcE (a/L) Examination from Science Streams/ Maths Streams /t echnology 
Streams  in one sitting (biology / combine Mathematics / chemistry / Physics or agri Science) will be added 
advantage for selection and a qualification for advance training under Ministry of Health services.
  
(c) Administrative Trades 
(1) administrative assistant (Male / female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) Examination at not more than two sittings including an Simple 
(S)  passes in Sinhala / tamil and English languages and a simple (S) pass in Mathematics Studies. 
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will be an added Qualification.
 (d)  Operations Trades
(1) Operations Air  (Air Traffic Control)   (Male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) Examination at not more than two sittings including an Simple 
(S)  pass in Sinhala / tamil language and a credit pass in English language.
(2) fire fighter (Male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) Examination at not more than two sittings including Simple (S) 
passes in Sinhala / tamil and English languages.  a valid heavy vehicle driving license will be an added 
qualification.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
390
(3) operations Ground (Male / female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two 
sittings including an Simple (S) pass in 
Sinhala / tamil and English language.
(e) Logistic Trades
(1) Logistic assistant (Male/female)
(2) a viation fuel Quality controller (Male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two 
sittings including an Simple (S)  passes 
in Sinhala / tamil and English languages 
and a credit in Mathematics / Science / 
business & account Studies. knowledge 
on computers (Microsoft Office package) 
will be an added qualification.
(3) catering assistance (Male) 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two  
sittings including Simple (S) passes in 
Sinhala / tamil and English languages.
(4) Ground Steward (Male/female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala 
/ tamil and English language. Priority 
will be given to candidates who have a 
Simple (S) pass for English.  Experience 
and professional qualification in field of 
hospitality at tourist board authorized 
Hotels (Ex: Waiter / barman / House 
keeper / Room boy / Room attendance / 
Room Steward) 
(5) uniform out fitter (Male / female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including a Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / 
tamil  and English language. operating 
of Juki machine (over lock, button 
Hole, button attached, double Needle, 
bar tack), cutting and designing of 
Garments without blocks and technical 
knowledge on Juki machine will be an 
added qualification
 
(6) cabin attendant (Male / female) 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE 
(o/L) Examination at not more than 
two sittings including Sinhala / tamil 
language and a credit (c) in English 
language. fluent in English language 
with strong communication skill and 
having experience as a cabin assistant 
with pleasing personality will be an added 
qualification. Capable of reach to 212 Cm 
height by both hands (using toe). 
(f)   Police (male/female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Simple (S) passes in Sinhala / tamil 
and English and Mathematics languages. 
Priority will be given to male and female 
candidates those who measured 5' 8'' and                   
5' 6'' or above in height respectively.
(h) Physical Training Instructor (male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an Simple (S) pass in Sinhala / tamil 
and English language. National Level sports 
will be special qualification at selection. The 
practical test should pass all the candidates 
who were passing the preliminary interviews.
 v acancies exist in the Regular Sri Lanka 
Air force for Airmen/Airwomen of the in 
the trades are given below as Direct Entry :
4. Trades & Educational, Professional Qualifications 
Required:-
(a) Electronics and Telecommunication  
Engineering Trades (Regular - male)
 (1) air Radio technician 
 (2) telecommunication technician 
   
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two Sittings 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
391
including Simple (S)  passes in Sinhala / tamil, 
English languages, Mathematics and Science.                    
a credit pass for Mathematics / Science is essential.
and
 Successful completion of two year fulltime 
National Certificate Course in Engineering Craft 
Practice (Electronics / telecommunications) at a 
technical college recognized by the Ministry of 
V ocational and Technical Training . Certificate 
equivalent to National V ocational Qualification 
Leave iV(NVQ Leave iV) will be considered as 
an additional qualification.
(b) General Engineering Trades 
(1) motor Transport mechanic (Male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Sinhala / tamil, English languages, 
Mathematics and Science. a credit (c) pass 
for Mathematics / Science will be an added 
qualification.
and
 one year full time or up to two years part 
time course in automobile Mechanic/ 
automobile Electrician/ automobile air 
conditioning Mechanic/ Motor cycle/ 
three Wheeler Mechanic at government 
institution or government registered 
private institution with two years or more 
post qualified experience in relevant field 
in a reputed organization of six month 
full time or up to one year part time 
course  automobile Mechanic/ automobile 
Electrician/ automobile air conditioning 
Mechanic/ Motor cycle/ three Wheeler 
Mechanic course at government institution 
or government registered private institution 
with three or more years post qualified 
experience in relevant field in a reputed 
organization or NVQ Level iii or above 
in automobile Mechanic/automobile 
Electrician/ automobile air conditioning 
Mechanic/ Motor cycle/ three Wheeler 
Mechanic course at government institution 
or government registered private institution 
with year post qualified experience in 
reputed organization .   
 (2) Surface Tech (Laboratory Technician)  
(male) 
 Passed G.c.E. (o/L) (Minimum 6 passes 
including Mathematics and Science) at not 
more than two sitting including a simple 
(S) pass in Sinhala / tamil and English 
language. “S” pass for chemistry in G.c.E. 
a/L or set for G.c. E. a/L in Physical/bio 
Stream with chemistry as a subject will be 
an added advantage.
 
 Six month full time course related to electro 
plating or related filed or up to one year part 
time course of same fields at Government 
institution or government registered private 
institution with one year experience in 
reputed organization. Possesses NVQ Level 
II certification in elector plating or related 
filed with working experience. Followed 
the electroplating course conducted by 
Gem and Jewellery institute of Sir Lanka 
or industrial development board (idb) Sri 
Lanka or any other reputed institute with 
above basic and higher education will be an 
added advantage.     
(d) Computer Technician (male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including Sinhala / tamil and English language.
 Six month full time information technology 
course (Network / Software developer, Software 
and Hardware repairing) or up to one year 
part time information technology course at 
Government institute or Government registered 
private institute. two years working experience 
in relevant field. 
5.  Other Requirements: - 
(a) Candidates must fulfil the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/ 
V olunteer air force: -
(1) Nationality - Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(2)  age as at 15th July 2020
 
 Regular
Male -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 23 years 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
392
female - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 22 years 
 Volunteer
Male -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years
female - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 28 years
 Direct entry
Male -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 28 years 
female - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 26 years
(3)  Height - 5 feet 5 inches (165 cm) and above 
(Male)
 5 feet 3 inches (160.2 cm) and 
above (female)
(4) Weight : -  17 < bMi < 26 (Male)
   17 < bMi < 25 (female)
   Weight (kg.)
  body Mass index = ––––––––––
   Height
2(m)
(5) Vision colour Standard : cP2
(6) Visual acuity: 6/6 each eye (without 
spectacles and lens)
(7) chest: 32’’
(8) civil Status:  unmarried
(a) Regular airmen / airwomen candidates must 
be unmarried and not allowed to marry until the 
completion of four years from the date of enlistment 
and until one year after the completion of the basic 
trade training course and whichever is later. 
(b) the airmen / airwomen who are enlist above 25 
years they are eligible for marriage after 01 year 
period from Enlistment and after completion of 
basic combat course and basic trade training 
course. 
  
(c) direct Entry airmen / airwomen are eligible for 
marriage after 01 year period from Enlistment and 
after completion of basic combat course.  
(d) dancer trade airwomen are not allowed to marry 
until the completion of five (5) years from the date 
of enlistment. 
6. candidates who do not possess the required educational 
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 02 
to 03 will be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview 
the height, weight, chest and vision will be measured.  
candidates whose height, weight, chest and vision are 
below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and 
who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. any 
candidate who has special ability / qualifications may at the 
discretion of the commander of the air force be considered, 
even though he / she does not have the pre requisite on any 
of above, provided that he/she possess the requisite of the 
Professional/ Special qualifications for the best interest of 
the Sri Lanka air force..
7. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
8. Conditions of Service: - 
(a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air 
force as an airmen / airwomen on a regular 
or volunteer engagement and will undergo a 
basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the trade, the status allocated on his / 
her enlistment as an other Rank.
(b) airmen / airwomen will be required to undergo 
training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as 
decided by the commander of the air force in 
consultation with the Ministry of defence.
(c) during the period of training as airmen / 
airwomen and thereafter, personnel will be 
subject to air force Law.
(d) Every airmen / airwomen will be provided 
all items of uniforms, equipment and medical 
facilities.
(e) during the period of training, an airmen / 
airwomen will be accommodated in an air 
force Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) in the event of a airmen / airwomen voluntarily 
terminating his / her candidature during training, 
the parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
393
up to that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on 
account of such airmen / airwomen.
(g) if at any time during his / her course a airmen / 
airwomen is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his / her control to qualify for a 
commission, his / her parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the Sri Lanka air force all 
expenses incurred on his / her training and will 
be required to enter into a bond to this effect with 
the commander of the air force acting on behalf 
of the Government of Sri Lanka.
      
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 28 of the application form in respect of 
Sub paragraphs (f) and (g) above, and forward 
them together with the application. Parent or 
guardian will be required to enter in to a bond 
subsequently in this form with the Republic 
of   Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these 
candidates as airmen / airwomen.
(j) candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 1 to 4 will be called for the Preliminary 
interview and if successful will be called for 
Medical Examinations and all candidates selected 
will be medically and physically examined under 
Sri Lanka air force arrangements to check the 
suitability in par with the Sri Lanka air force 
Medical fitness standards. Candidates who 
successfully complete these tests will be called 
for the final interview. the required number of 
candidates per trade will be selected according 
to merit at these interviews and tests.
(k) a  single airman is required to live in the airmen 
barracks. He / She is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. a single airmen’s 
ration allowance is paid to the Mess.
(l) a  married airmen/ airwomen may be provided 
with a married quarter if available. Recovery of 
rental will be as applicable to public servants. 
(m) all airmen/ airwomen are liable to be posted for 
duty or training in any part of the world at any 
time.
(n) all airmen/ airwomen are governed by the air 
force act and orders issued from time to time.
9. Terms of Engagement: - 
 
(a) Regular Airmen and Airwomen 
 Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third 
class of the rank of aircraftsman / aircraftwomen 
/ leading aircraftsman / corporal in the Regular 
air force and shall be required to serve for twelve 
(12) years in which eight (08) years will have to 
be served continuously whilst serving a further 
four (04) years in the Regular air force (Reserve) 
when called to do so. opportunities exist for 
suitable airmen / airwomen to extend for further 
service on completion of eight years of service on 
the discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka 
air force.  
(b) Volunteer Airmen and Airwomen
 Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third 
class of the rank of aircraftsman in the V olunteer 
Air Force and shall be required to serve for five 
(05) years. opportunities exist for suitable to 
extend for further service on completion of five 
(05) years of service on the discretion of the 
commander of the Sri Lanka air force.
10. Official Language Requirements.– the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
11. Pay and Allowances 
(a) it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries  
including allowances indicated below are the 
initial step of particular rank.
Year Con Pay Total 
Allowances 
Total 
Income Rank
air craftsmen 29,540.00 12,150.00 41,690.00
Leading air 
craftsmen
30,440.00 12,150.00 42,590.00
corporal 31,340.00 12,150.00 43,490.00
(b) Pensions/Gratuities.– Payable in terms of the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 
and as amended from time to time. all airmen/ 
airwomen are contributors to the Widows and 
orphans Pension (armed force) Scheme. Rate 
of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 
1970.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
394
12. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) applications should be submitted in applicants 
own handwriting in terms of the from specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
filled with much detail as possible. Applications 
should be sent by registered post addressed to 
“COmmAND RECRuITING OffICER, SRI 
LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING 
SChOOL, kOTuGODA” so as to reach there 
not later than 1200 noon on 20 March 2020. the 
Envelope enclosing the application should be 
marked “APPLICATION fOR REGuLAR / 
vOLuNTEER AIRmEN / AIRWOmEN” on 
the top left corner. applications received at Sri 
Lanka air force,  kotugoda after closing date and 
time and not in accordance with the requirement 
of this notification and not in registered post will 
not be considered.
(b) candidates who are in Government Service/ 
corporations/ boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
Heads of departments / corporations/ boards/
Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected.
(c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photo copy of the following 
documents when summoned for interviews or 
when called upon to do so.
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and 
a photo copy. (Certificate issued for the 
purpose of the education code will not be 
accepted).
(2) National identity card and a photo copy.
(3) Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photo copies.
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training and 
/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and photo copies.
(5) Two recent certificates of character (within 
06 months obtained). one of these should be 
from the Principal of the last school attended 
and the other from a responsible person who 
has the know of the applicant for more than 
two years or from the present employer                      
(if employed).
(6) Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
photo copies.
(7)  A plain folder with file tag.
(8)  A colour photo of 2x2½ inches certified by 
the GS.
       
(d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
(f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
13. Preliminary selections will be made amongst those 
candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates 
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be 
prescribed by the commander of the air force. candidates 
considered suitable for the interview will be required to 
appear for an interview at their own expense before an air 
force Recruiting board. Such candidates will be informed 
individually of place, date and time. 
14. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
interviews, he  is to produce the National identity card. 
candidates who do not have the National identity card could 
produce some other form of the accepted identification. 
However, no candidates will be enlisted without the National 
identity card.
15. all candidates who are selected is required to undergo 
a medical screening test and a physical fitness test as per Sri 
Lanka air force Medical and fitness Standard during the 
selection process.
16. the required number of candidates per trade will be 
selected according to high marks merit at these interviews 
and tests.
17. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should 
do so by giving his testimonial. any form of canvassing or 
attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result 
in disqualification of such candidates. 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
395
18. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
 dLS diaS,     
  RWP, RSP and three bars, VSV , uSP, MSc (def & Strat Stu), ndc, psc
 air Marshal.
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po box 594,
colombo 02.
aPPLicatioN foR aiRMEN /aiRWoMEN iN tHE …………………………………..
............................. tRadE of tHE SRi LaNka aiR foRcE
01. Nationality :––––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card) :––––––––––––.
03. National identity card Number :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent address :––––––––––––.
05.  Postal address :––––––––––––.
06. date of birth :––––––––––––.
 (age as at 15 July 2020)  years :––––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––.
07. Height :––––––––––––. cm    (………..feet ……….inches)
08. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––––––––.
09. district :––––––––––––.
10. Electorate :––––––––––––.
11. GS division :––––––––––––.
12. t elephone number :––––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :––––––––––––.
14. Gender :––––––––––––.
15. School attended :––––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained:-
Name of School Type of examination Year and Index number of the  
examination
Subjects passed      
(including grading)
ordinary Level
advanced Level
other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School: - (if applicable) 
Name and address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From To
                        

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
396
18. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
20. details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and 
standards / levels achieved) :––––––––––––.
21. other achievements of note at School or with outside organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.) :–––––––––––.
22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or boy Scout organization :––––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications :––––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
25. if earlier employed in a Government department or in the Public Sector / board / corporation (including the central 
bank, National bank, universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment :––––––––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
27.  declaration to be signed by the applicant:- 
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic of 
Sri Lanka.
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
28. declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant:
(a) i am the Parent / Guardian of………………………………who is an applicant for a airmen/ airwomen in the Sri 
Lanka air force and who has signed the declaration in cage 27 of the form of application above. 
 
(b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training for 
the following.
(1) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant voluntarily terminating his / 
her candidature during his / her period of training all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic of Sri 
Lanka on account of such applicant.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
397
(2) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by the authorities as being unsuitable (for 
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within 
his / her own control) for the continuation of 
service all the expenses incurred on his / her 
account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
  ––––––––––––––,
   Signature of Parent /Guardian.
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
            (in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
                   
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of first Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
            (in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Second Witness.
      
date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
address :––––––––––––.
02–701
––––––––––––––––––
 (g) administrative Legal branch
 (h) administrative Veterinary branch 
 (i) administrative Education branch
 (j) administrative band branch
 (k) administrative audit branch
 (l) information technology Engineering branch
2. applications are invited from those candidates 
possessing the professional qualifications given below.
Basic Educational Qualifications :
(a) Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the GcE (o/L) 
examination with compulsory  credit (c) passes 
for English language, Science, Mathematics and 
a Simple (S) pass and above for Sinhala / tamil 
language in one sitting (additional and optional 
subjects are not considered). 
(b) Minimum of three simple (S) passes at the GcE 
(a/L) examination and passes may be from any 
stream in one sitting.
(c) Pearson / Edexcel / international ordinary / 
advance Level, GcSE, GcE and cambridge 
exam qualification may be considered subjected 
to a confirmation obtained from the Department of 
Examination, Sri Lanka to effect that it is equalant 
to above basic educational qualifications.
Professional / Academic Qualifications
(a) Technical Engineering branch
(1) Technical Engineering Officer (Research 
Officer) – male (volunteer) bachelor’s  
degree or above fields of Aeronautical, 
Electronic, Electrical and Material engineering. 
  Preference will be given to island ranking in 
the GcE a/L, the graduates of competitive 
local government universities, Sophistication 
of the projects completed including final 
year project, the field of in-plant training and 
institution. Will be continue at the preliminary 
interview.
(b) Electronics Engineering branch :
(1) Electronics Engineering Officer - Male 
(Regular)     bachelors  Engineering degree in 
SRI LANkA AIR fORCE OffICER 
vACANCIES
1. V acaNciES exist for suitable Male / female 
Commissioned Officers in the Regular / V olunteer Force of 
the Sri Lanka air force in the following branches. 
 (a) t echnical Engineering branch
 (b) Electronic Engineering branch
 (c) Logistics branch
 (d) air field construction branch
 (e) Medical branch
 (f) dental branch

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
398
Electronics & telecommunication Engineering 
or bachelors degree in Physical Science with 
Electronics / telecommunication as a main 
subject  from recognized university or National 
diploma in technology (Ndt) in Electronics & 
telecommunication Engineering technology 
from the university of Moratuwa or Higher 
National diploma in Electrical & Electronics 
Engineering (HNdE) from Sri Lanka institute 
of advanced technological Education or 
National diploma in Engineering Science 
(NdES) in Electronics & communication 
Engineering from institute of Engineering 
technology. associate membership in iESL 
will be added advantage.
 
(c) Logistics branch
(1) mess manager – male / female (Regular 
/ volunteer)      bachelor degree or Higher 
diploma in Hotel Management or completion 
of all 4 levels of full time basic courses and 
completion of intermediate and advance 
level in hospitality industry training from 
a recognized local/ foreign institute with 
minimum of 02 years post qualification 
experience in Star class Hotel in cookery in 
executive capacity.  
(2) Technical Officer Apparel - Male / Female 
(Regular / volunteer)  bachelor degree in 
Science, technology or Engineering, Preferably 
with a Postgraduate Diploma qualification in 
textile and clothing technology or diploma 
in textile and clothing from the Sri Lanka 
institute or textile and apparel or any other 
recognized institute.
(d) Air field Constructions branch :
(1) Civil / Electrical Engineering Officer - Male 
(Regular)  bachelors degree in Engineering 
specialization in civil / Electrical Engineering 
and associated Membership in iESL or 
Ndt/ Nd ES /HNd E in civil / Electrical 
Engineering  or  equivalent  qualification. 
(associated Membership in i ESL will be an 
added advantage for the National diploma 
Holders)
(e) medical branch  
(1) Consultant Physician - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) Md (General/Medicine) with board 
certification.
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) 
registration as a consultant Physician. 
(2) Consultant Surgeon - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) Md (General Surgery) with board 
certification.
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) 
registration as a consultant Surgeon. 
(3) Consultant Anaesthetist - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) Md (anesthesiology) with board 
certification.
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) 
registration as a consultant anesthetist.
(4) Consultant Pediatrician - male/ female 
(volunteer)
(a) MD (Pediatrician) with board certification. 
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) 
registration as a consultant Pediatrician.
(5) Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist 
- male/ female (volunteer)
(a) Md (obstetrics and Gynaecology)
(b) Sri Lanka Medical council (SLMc) 
registration as a consultant obstetrician 
and Gynaecologist.
 Special Note: consultants below the age of 
40 years as at 15
th July 2020 will be considered 
for the selection. However, consultants over 40 
years as at 15
th July 2020 and having experience 
with additional qualifications will be considered 
for selection (Rank: Wing commander) with the 
discretion of the commander of the air force.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
399
(f) Dental branch
(1) Dental Officers - Male/ Female (Regular/ 
volunteer) bdS (Sri Lanka) or a degree 
equivalent to bdS from any recognized 
university of foreign country with full 
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical 
council.
(2) Pre – Intern Trainees - male/ female 
(Regular) Students who have successfully 
completed eight (08) semester of bdS (Sri 
Lanka) course or degree equivalent to bdS 
obtained from any recognized university of a 
foreign country which is accepted by Sri Lanka 
Medical council and who have not completed 
Provisional registration at Sri Lanka Medical 
council will also be considered. those 
candidates who are selected have to qualify 
with full registration with the Sri Lanka 
Medical council within 05 years from the date 
of enlistment.
(g) Administrative Legal branch
(1) Legal Officer – Male / Female (Regular) 
attorney-at-Law of the Supreme court of Sri 
Lanka.
(a) at least three years working experience 
in the Magistrate’s court, district court, 
High court or Superier courts.
(b) Should have knowledge on drafting 
agreements and deeds both in Sinhala and 
English languages.
(c) Should have knowledge on company 
secretarial services.
(d) fluent in English and computer literate 
will be additional qualifications. 
(h) Administrative veterinary branch 
(1) Veterinary Officer - Male (Regular)     
bachelor of Veterinary Medicine and animal 
Science or equivalent with full registration of 
Sri Lanka Veterinary council.
(j) Administrative Education branch
(1) English Language Instructor - male/ female 
(Regular / volunteer)     
(a) bachelors degree  with English Language 
as a subject or a bachelors degree b.Ed 
(bachelor of Education) in English or a 
bachelors degree ba  / bSc in English 
medium  or diploma in Education or 
Masters degree (Ma / MSc) with English 
Language as a subject or Master degree 
(Ma / MSc) in English medium. Should 
mandatorily have “01 year teaching 
experience (in respective medium) at a 
recognized institute” or “Has followed a 
teacher training course (not less than 06 
months) at a recognized institute”.
  or
(b) Successful completion of three (3) years 
teacher training course as an English 
Language teacher at the “National 
college of Education” or two (02) years 
teacher training course as an English 
Language teacher at the government 
teachers training college of Education or 
Successful completion of three (03) years 
teacher training from a government or 
government recognized foreign teacher 
training institute.
(2) french and Chinese Language Instructors - 
male/ female (Regular/volunteer) one (01) 
year diploma in french/ chinese language with 
03 years teaching experience in a government 
or government approved education institute.     
(k) Administrative band branch 
(1) band master - Western music (military 
band) - male (Regular) bachelor degree or 
diploma in Western Music or Postgraduate 
diploma in western music or passed Grade 
V or above in theory or practical in music 
of Royal School of music, trinity college 
London, London college of Music or 
Equivalent School with international 
Recognition.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
400
(l) Administrative Audit branch
(1) Internal Audit Officer - Male (Regular) 
bachelor degree of commerce / Management 
/ accountancy or business discipline from the 
recognized university of Sri Lanka with one 
or more professional qualifications mentioned 
below.
(a) Certified Business Accountant (CBA) 
of chartered accountants of Sri Lanka 
or similar qualification of Chartered 
institute of Management accountants 
(CIMA) of UK or Certified Management 
accountants (cMa) of institute of 
Certified Management Accountants of Sri 
Lanka  associate member of association 
of Public finance accountant of Sri 
Lanka.
(m) Information Technology Engineering branch
(1) Network Administrator - male / female 
(Regular / volunteer)    
 bachelors Engineering degree in a computer 
related stream or bachelors degree in a 
computer related stream or bachelors degree 
with computer Science as a major subject 
or Higher diploma in it  or computer 
Engineering, National diploma in it or 
computer Engineering Science (NdES) or 
equivalent with specialization knowledge and 
experience in data networks or server systems 
will be an advantage. 
(2) Software Developer - male / female 
(Regular / volunteer)     
 bachelors Engineering degree in a computer 
related stream or bachelors degree in a 
computer related stream or bachelors degree 
with computer Science as a major subject 
or Higher diploma in it  or computer 
Engineering, National diploma in it or 
computer Engineering Science (NdES) 
or equivalent specialization knowledge 
or experience in c#, aSP.Net 4.0 and 
above, Wcf , MVc 5, Entity framework, 
LiNQ, angular, Visual Studio 2015, t eam 
foundation Server (tfS), NEt core, Python, 
big data analysis tools or MS SQL will be an 
advantage.
(3) Information / Cyber Security Specialist 
- male / female (Regular / volunteer) 
bachelors Engineering degree in a computer 
related stream or bachelors degree in a 
computer related stream or bachelors degree 
with computer Science as a major subject 
or Higher diploma in it  or computer 
Engineering, National diploma in it or 
computer Engineering Science (NdES) or 
equivalent sound knowledge and experience 
in information / cyber Security will be an 
advantage.
(4) Web Designers - male / female (Regular / 
volunteer) 
 bachelors degree in computer Engineering / 
it / computer Science or bachelors degree 
with computer Science as a subject or Higher 
diploma in it  or computer Engineering 
National diploma in it  or computer 
Engineering Science (NdES) or equivalent 
sound  knowledge in Web designing related 
responsibilities. Preference will be given 
those with experience and knowledge on 
HtML / XHtML / HtML 5, cSS (cascade 
Style Sheet), JavaScript, JQuery, flash action 
script, PHP, MySQL, aSP.NEt, MSSQL.
3. Experience.– Post qualification executive work 
experience in the relevant field of two years or more will be 
an added advantage to be considered by the interview board 
for the selection process.
4. basic Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality  : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) civil Status : Married / unmarried 
(c) Gender  : Male / female (as applicable)
 
(d) age : Not less than 18 years and not 
   more than 
   33 years as at 15
th July 2020 for  
  all branches
(e) Height  : Male -  167.5cm (5’ 6") and above  
   for all branches
       165.0cm (5’ 5") and  
   above for  Medical/  
   dental branches

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
401
      female -  162.5cm (5’ 4") and 
    above for all branches
       160.0cm (5’ 3") and 
    above for Medical/
          dental branches   
(f) Weight :  Male     - 17 < bMi < 26  
   female - 17 < bMi < 25 
    Weight (kg)
   bMi = ––––––––––
    Height (m)2
(g) chest : Minimum 32’’ (Male)
(h) colour  : cP2
 Vision Standard
(j) Visual acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
    (Without spectacles/contact Lens)
    Medical / dental branches 6/18  
   in each eye (corrected visual 
    acuity with spectacle should be 
    6/6 in each eye.
5. Special Note :
(a) Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the 
requirement of para 2, 3 and 4 will be rejected. 
On arrival for the first interview the height, vision 
and weight will be measured. candidates whose 
height, vision and weight are below the standard 
specified in the Gazette Notification and who 
have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
(b) Selected candidates will be commissioned in the 
rank of Flight Lieutenant or Flying Officer or 
Pilot Officer in keeping with their professional 
qualification and experience at the discretion of 
the commander of air force.
(c) all candidates who are selected are required 
to undergo a written, practical and an Officer 
Quality test during the selection process.
(d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a medical screening test as per Sri Lanka 
air force Medical Standard during the selection 
process. 
(e) all Masters, bachelors degrees and diplomas 
should be awarded from a recognized university 
accepted by the university Grant commission of 
Sri Lanka.
(f) any candid ate who has special qualifications 
may at the discretion of the commander of 
the air force be considered, even though he / 
she does not have any of above pre requisites, 
provided that he / she possess the requisite of the 
professional / special qualifications for the best 
interest of the Sri Lanka air force.
(g) due considerations will be given to current 
outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
(h) Official Language Requirements : Selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any 
rules already made or may be made hereafter 
for giving effect to the Language Policy of the 
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions in the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
(j) Selected candidates will be required to undergo 
training at such places as decided by the 
commander of the air force. if at any time 
during training, the officer is reported on by 
the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his / her 
control, he / she will be liable to have his / her 
commission withdrawn and / or be subject to 
other disciplinary action in accordance with the 
Sri Lanka air force disciplinary Regulations.
(k) The conditions of service for an officer of the 
Sri Lanka air force are in terms of Sri Lanka 
air force Regulations published in Gazette No. 
10,240 of 27th april 1951 and as amended from 
time to time. in terms of Section 10 of the air 
Force Act, "Every officer shall hold his / her 
appointment during the President's pleasure". 
However an officer has no right to resign his / her 
commission unilaterally, but under provision of 
Section 11 of the air force act may be allowed 
by the President to do so. the provisions of 
any bond / agreement envisaging a period of 
obligatory service in respect of training and 
subsequent courses will not supersede the 
provisions of Section 11 of the air force act 
stated above. Retirement from the air force will 
be applicable under conditions specified in the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code.  
(l) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
(m) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act 
and orders issued from time to time.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
402
(n) A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He / She are provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. Batman service will also be provided. A single officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to 
the Mess.
(p) A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the 
Establishment Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance 
as stated in para 6. e. (11).   
6. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Since a consolidated revision is in progress at present, and same revision completes in year 2020, followings are 
the amounts payable in 2019. further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial 
step of particular grade.
Year 2020
(Annual)Rank
Pilot Officer (Cadet) Rs. 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) Rs. 502,860.00
Flying Officer Rs. 571,380.00 - (30x16020)  = Rs. 1,051,980.00
flight Lieutenant Rs. 667,500.00 – (24x16020) = Rs. 1,051,980.00
Squadron Leader Rs. 731,580.00 – (22x16020) = Rs. 1,084,020.00
Wing commander Rs. 751,140.00 -  (17x19560) = Rs. 1,083,660.00
  
(b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers :
Year 2020
(Annual)Grade
Preliminary Grade Rs. 651,480.00 (2x16,020-7x16,140-2x19,560- 16x26,040) = Rs. 1,252,260.00
Grade ii Rs. 699,660.00 (6x16140-2x19560-  16x26040)= Rs. 1,252,260.00
Grade i Rs. 861,660.00(15x26040) = Rs. 1,252,260.00
Specialist Grade Rs. 1,056,000.00 (12x32,400)= Rs. 1,444,800.00
  
(c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers   
Year 2020
(Annual)Grade
Grade ii Rs. 635,460.00 (3x16,020-7x16,140-2x19560-  16x26,040)= Rs. 1,252,260.00
Grade i Rs. 861,660.00 (15x26,040) = Rs. 1,252,260.00
Specialist Grade Rs. 1,056,000.00 (12x32400)= Rs. 1,444,800.00
(d) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental Officers
(1) Pensionable allowances 
 Preliminary Grade -  Rs.1,700.00 per month
 Grade ii -  Rs.1,700.00 per month 
 Grade i -  Rs.3,400.00 per month 
 Specialist Grade  -  Rs.3,400.00 per month
(2) Non Pensionable allowances 
 Preliminary Grade - Rs.2,125.00 per month
 Grade ii - Rs.1,700.00 per month 
 Grade i - Rs.   400.00 per month 
(3) dat  allowances  - Rs.35,000.00 per month

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
403
(4) Extra duty payments
 Preliminary Grade - Rs. 687.00 per hour
 Grade ii - Rs. 796.00 per hour
 Grade i - Rs. 1,101.00 per hour 
 Specialist Grade  - Rs. 1,302.00 per hour
(5) Language proficiency allowance
 Preliminary Grade - Rs.1485.00 per month
 Grade ii - Rs. 1495.00 per month
 Grade i - Rs.2320.00 per month
 Specialist Grade  - Rs.2850.00 per month
(6) Service allowances indicated in paragraph e (18) are to be calculated separately as applicable.
(e) Service Allowances :-
 (1) cost of living allowance Rs.7, 800.00 per month. 
 (2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per month after five years of service.
 (3) Hard allowance Rs. 620.00 per month.
 (4)  additional Hard allowance Rs. 4,380.00 per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special allowance Rs. 3,100.00 per month.
 (6) interim allowance Rs.1,000.00  per month. (the existing rate is amend as per the budget proposal in 
2019-amounted rate Rs.2500.00 per month).
 (7)  uniform upkeep allowance Rs.525.00 per month.
 
 (8)  batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
 (9)  Ration allowance Rs. 24005.47 per month (Rs.774.37 per day, if permitted to live out).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) A rent Allowance for married officers who do not occupy in the Government quarters. - Pilot Officer to 
Squadron Leader and above Rs.3,200.00 to Rs. 8,500.00 per month.
 (12) t elephone bill allowance. Wing commander to air Vice Marshal Rs.2,500.00 to Rs. 5,000.00 per 
month. 
 
 (13)  Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for officer, spouse and children).
 (14) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes to travel 
from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
 
 (15) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (16) free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
404
 (17) Married Officers permitted to live out are entitled to a free bus pass from the Sri Lanka Transport Board to 
travel from residence to place of work within 30 miles radius.
 (18) Service allowance Rs.300.00, Rs.400.00, Rs.500.00 as applicable (Payable to service Medical and dental 
Officers in consideration to the number of complete years of service)
 (19) Additional service allowance Rs.1, 500.00 per month (applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers 
only)
 (20) 1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x 3 days (Maximum) per month (applicable to service Medical and dental 
Officers only)
 (21) Extra Duty Payments 120 hrs (Maximum) per month (applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers 
only)
 (22) t elephone bill allowances - 
  Specialist doctors  : Rs. 8,000.00 per month   
  other doctors   : Rs. 4,000.00 per month
7. Pensions/Gratuities: - Payable in terms of the air force Pensions & Gratuities code 1981 and as amended from time 
to time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions 
are as per Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
8. Instructions to applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the application should 
be completed neatly with as much details as possible. applications should be addressed to "COmmAND 
RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, kOTuGODA" so 
as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 20
th mARCh 2020 under registered cover. the envelope enclosing the 
application should be marked   "APPLICATION fOR COmmISSION IN ThE ……………… bRANCh". 
Applications received after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and 
not in registered post mail will not be entertained. 
(b) candidates who are in Government Service /corporations /boards/ civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through their Heads of department/ corporations/boards/civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected. 
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals with certified photo copy of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth with a photo copy (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education code 
will not be accepted).
(2) National identity card and a photo copy.
(3) Original certificates in support of the educational and professional qualifications required for the branch 
applied and a photo copy.
(4) Certificates of trade / technical training and / or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution and 
a photo copy.

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
405
(5) Two recent certificates of character (within 06 months obtained). One of these should be from the Principal of 
the last school attended and the other from a responsible person who has knowledge of the applicant for more 
than two years or from the present employer (if employed).
 (6) Original certificates in support of sports activities and Extra Curricular activities and a photo copy.
 (7)  A plain folder with file tag.
 (8) Two colour photos of 2x2½ inches certified by the Grama Niladari.
(d) applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application 
form.
9. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the 
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection.
10. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates so 
selected from the Preliminary interview will be required to undergo a medical test as may be prescribed by the 
Commander of the Air Force. The final selection will then be made after an interview appointed by the Ministry 
of defence. 
(b) candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. No 
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he / she is to produce his / her National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final interviews will be required to present themselves before an 
air force Medical board.
(e) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his / her testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
    
 dLS 
diaS,     
 RWP, RSP and three bars, VSV , uSP, MSc (def & Strat Stu), ndc, psc
 air Marshal.
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po box 594,
colombo 02.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
406
Official use only 
aPPLicatioN foR coMMiSSioN iN tHE SRi LaNka REGuLaR VoLuNtEER / aiR foRcE iN tHE 
……………………………bRaNcH
01. Nationality :––––––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card) :––––––––––––––.
03. National identity card Number :––––––––––––––.
04. branch applied :––––––––––––––.
05. Post applied :––––––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :––––––––––––––.
07. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––––––––––.
08. School attended :––––––––––––––.
09.  Postal address :––––––––––––––.
10. E-mail address :––––––––––––––.
11. date of birth :––––––––––––––.
 (age as at 15th July 2020) : years :––––––––––––––.  Months :––––––––––––––.  days :––––––––––––––.
12. Height :- …………cm    (………..feet ……….inches )
13. district :––––––––––––––.
14. Electorate :––––––––––––––.
15. GN division and Number :––––––––––––––.
16. t elephone number :––––––––––––––.
17. civil status :––––––––––––––.
18. Particulars of School and /or University and qualifications obtained:-
Name of School Type of examination Year and Index number 
of the  examination
Subjects passed      
(including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level 
(to mention whether 
qualified or not to apply 
for university admission)
 yes            No 
General English
common General test
university/
other/Professional

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
407
19. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––––.
20. Particulars of employment since leaving School/university:- (if applicable) 
Name and Address of employer Nature of employment Period of Service
From To
      
21. Particulars of parents:-
Full Name Father’ s & 
Mother’ s NIC No. Occupation Present AddressPast Present
22. details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. 
and standards / levels achieved) :––––––––––––––.
23. Other achievements of note at School / University (Island ranking, Projects Completed, field of in-plant training and 
institution) or with outside organizations. (Give details with dates / years etc) :––––––––––––––.
24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or boy Scout organization :––––––––––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications :––––––––––––––.
26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––––.
27.  if earlier employed in a Government department or in the Public Sector / board / corporation (including the central 
bank, National bank, universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination 
of employment :––––––––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials:-
Name Designation Postal Address
29.  declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––––.
02–703

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
408
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, hOmE AffAIRS, PROvINCIAL COuNCILS AND 
LOCAL GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 3, Grade II of Class 3, Grade I of 
Class 3, Grade II of Class 2 and Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service - 2018(1) 2020
  
1.0  it is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in Grade III of Class 3, Grade II of Class 3, Grade 
i of class 3, Grade ii of class 2 and Grade i of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service - 
2018(1)2020 will be held in colombo during weekends from 28th March 2020 to 29th March 2020, by the director General 
of Sri Lanka institute of development administration, under the supervision of Ministry of Public administration, Home 
affairs, Provincial councils and Local Government.
2.0 (a) these examinations shall be held as per the provisions of the Minute of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology Service published in the Gazette extra Ordinary No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.
(b) If there are officers who have not passed the Efficiency Bar examination, because no prescription has been made 
either in the procedure of recruitment of the previous post or in the letter of appointment in respect of the Efficiency Bar, 
they shall pass the Efficiency Bar examination prescribed for the Grade of the relevant Class within a concessionary period 
of three years from the date on which above Service Minute has been published in the Gazette Notification.
3.0 Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services will be as 
follows:  
 
Serial
No. Name of the examination Code
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict 3iii
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict 3ii
3.
Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict 3i
4. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict 2ii
5. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict 2i
the candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of Sri Lanka institute 
of development administration with regard to this examination. candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by disciplinary authority for violation of these rules.
5.0 Applications for the examination can strictly be made online. It is possible to start the filling application by 
selecting Examination of the tiLE MENu at the right side of main interface www.slida.lk, the official web site of the                       
Sri Lanka institute of development administration.
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m on 28th february 2020 up to 12.00 
midnight on 16th March 2020.
 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
409
6.0 examination Fees.– The officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination 
fees. However, for subsequent sittings officers shall pay Rs. 500/- for more than 1 subjects and they are required to pay                  
Rs. 300 if they sit for only for one subject. Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the island (except sub 
post offices) or by using credit cards through the official web site of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration 
www.slida.lk. Payment should be credited to the “SLida” account and the number of the receipt issued shall be indicated 
in the relevant cages of the application. When filling the application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85) for 
payment of money to “SLida” account, “SLida” should be mentioned as the recipient. in the meantime, the code name of 
the relevant examination shall be indicated at the place for the recipient’s address. (the code names should be as mentioned 
in section 03)
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including the name of the applicant as 
the remitter and the N.i.c. number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter.
7.0 When the application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. candidates shall be able to get their admission card of the examination by way 
of following the instructions indicated in the web page to which the candidate shall have the access once the application duly 
perfected is sent online. The candidate shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the 
respective Head of the Department or a deputy officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card certified 
in this manner shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the examination.
8.0 Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the telephone 
number 011 - 5980236 of Sri Lanka institute of development administration. communication can be made through this 
line from 8.30 a.m. up to 4.30 p.m. during working days of the week from 28th february 2020 up to 16th March 2020.
9.0 Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number                            
011- 5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.
10.0 Identity of Candidates.– candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted 
to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a valid Passport
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration.
11.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The officers shall sit for this examination 
in the language medium in which they have sat for the examination for entering into the relevant service or in an official 
language. The officers who have joined the service without a competitive examination shall sit for this examination in the 
language medium of education or an official language. Candidates shall not be allowed change language medium applied 
initially.
12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.
13.0 the results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the Ministry of Public administration, 
Home affairs, Provincial councils and Local Government by the director General of combined Services once the results 
are issued by the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration. the relevant Heads of departments 
shall make recommendations for confirmation of service and promotions of the officers according to the results.

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
410
14.0 Scheme of examination: Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as 
follows.
 14.1  Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 8 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade 
iii of class 3 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to 
combined Service, to sit for this examination.
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Establishments code 01 100 01 hour 40
financial Regulation 02 100 01 hour 40
14.1.1  Establishments code (Subject No. 01)
 It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the public officer on the Establishments Code 
and Procedural Rules of Public Service commission. the question paper consists of questions for 
short answers and structured questions. all the questions shall be answered.
14.1.2 financial Regulations (Subject No. 02)
 It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the officer on Financial Regulations and Store 
management and the understanding on the activities related to cash control registers. the question 
paper consists of questions for short answers and structured questions. all the questions shall be 
answered.
 14.2 
Efficiency  Bar   Examinations   for  Officers in  Grade II of  Class 3 of   Sri  Lanka  Information and   Communication 
Technology   Service (Schedule 9 of the service minute). The  officers shall be in   Grade II  of    Class 3 of    
Sri Lanka  information and communication technology Service, which belongs to combined Service, to sit for 
this examination.
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
Prescribed for a pass
Office systems and procedure 03 100 02 hours 40
information and 
communication technology 04 100 03 hours 40
14.2.1 Office systems and procedure (Subject No. 03)
 It is expected to measure the knowledge of the candidates on the office systems applied in public 
offices and ability to apply them. The question paper consists of structured questions. All the 
questions shall be answered.
14.2.2 information and communication technology (Subject No. 04)
 it is expected to test the knowledge of the candidates on the wider application of ict  and the 
common concepts ICT in public offices. (The method of application of ICT in government 
organizations. the papers will be consisted following ict  areas such as adequate knowledge 
on computer Networks and data communication, knowledge on General Purpose Software and 
Specific Application Software, Knowledge on Data Security and Backing up SW, Basic measure 
to enhance availability of computer systems and data security)
 
 this paper consist of two parts.
   Part i - a multiple choice question paper. duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
   Part ii - Essay type question paper. duration 02 hours. (60 Marks)

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
411
 14.3 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 10 of the service minute). The officers shall be in 
Grade i of class 3 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to 
combined Service, to sit for this examination.
Subject Subject
No. Marks Duration Cut-off marks 
prescribed for a pass
information and communication 
technology (Written test) 05 50 01 hour 20
information and communication 
technology (Practical test) 06 50 01 hour 20
 14.3.1 information and communication technology - Written test (Subject No. 05)
 i. Application of software for office activities and knowledge in this regard
 ii. knowledge in computer networking
 iii. Knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer Software/ Hardware
  this question paper consists of questions for short answers and essay type questions. all the 
questions shall be answered.
 14.3.2 information and communication technology - Practical test (Subject No. 06)
 i. Practical knowledge in using software for office activities
 ii. Practical knowledge in computer networking
 iii. Practical knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer Software/ 
Hardware
 
 14.4 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 11 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade 
ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to 
combined Service, to sit for this examination.
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks pre-
scribed for a pass
Establishments code 07 100 02 hours 40
financial Regulations 08 100 02 hours 40
14.4.1 Establishments code (Subject No. 07)
 It is expected to test the general knowledge of the officer on provisions in Establishments 
code/ Procedural rules of the Public Service commission and his/her ability to apply his/ her 
knowledge practically. this paper shall be prepared based on chapters of V olume i and V olume 
ii of the Establishments code and Procedural rules of the Public Service commission. this 
question paper consists of questions for short answers and structured type questions. all the 
questions shall be answered.
14.4.2 financial Regulations (Subject No. 08)
 it is expected to test basic knowledge and understanding of the candidate on Government 
financial Regulations and the purposes of various registers and log books maintained in public 
office and basis knowledge of store keeping. This question paper consists of questions for short 
answers and structured type questions. all the questions shall be answered.

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
412
 14.5 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 12 of the service minute). The officers shall be in 
Grade i of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to 
combined Service, to sit for this examination.
Subject Subject
No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Office Systems and procedure 09 100 02 hours 40
information and communication
technology and e-government 10 100 03 hours 40
 14.5.1 Office Systems and procedure (Subject No. 09)
  It is expected to test the knowledge of the candidate on office systems applied in government offices 
and also to test the ability to apply the same. this question paper consist of multiple choice questions, 
questions for short answers and structured type questions. all the questions shall be answered.
 14.5.2 information and communication technology and e-government (Subject No. 10) 
  this question consists of two parts.
Part i -  a  multiple choice question paper. duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
Part ii -  a question paper consisting of structured essay type questions. duration is 02 hours. (60 marks)
 (all questions shall be answered)
This question paper shall be designed to cover the following subject fields.
 (a) information and communication part of the paper consists of basic elements of it project life cycle such 
as systems analysis, systems design, software development, testing user acceptance testing and related 
areas of algorithms, HtML, XtML, php, data and information Security, disaster Recovery, systems, 
intellectual Property Rights and Software licensing, free and open Source Software, and web 2.0.
 (b) e-Government part of the paper consist of system of application of ict  in government organizations, 
application of ICT to enhance the efficiency in delivery of public services, Technology requirements for 
e-Govemment systems, basic elements of ict and interoperability.
the time table for each subject of each examination is as follows :
Serial
No. Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
01
Efficiency Bar Examinations for 
Officers in Grade III of Class 3 
of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
Establishments
code 01 2020.03.29 9.00 a.m. - 10.00 a.m.
financial
Regulations 02 2020.03.29 10.30 a.m. - 11.30 a.m.
02
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade II of Class 
3 of Sri Lanka information and
communication tecnology 
Service
Office Systems and 
Procedure 03 2020.03.28 12.30 p.m. - 2.30 p.m.
information and  
communication 
technology
04 2020.03.28 9.00 a.m. - 12.00 p.m.

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
413
Serial
No. Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
03
Efficiency Bar Examinations   
for Officers in Grade I of Class 
3 of Sri Lanka information and
communication technology 
Service
information and
communication 
technology (Written 
test)
05 2020.03.28 9.00 a.m. - 10.00 a.m.
information
and communication 
technology 
(Practical test)
06 2020.03.28 10.30 a.m. - 11.30 a.m.
04
Efficiency Bar Examinations  
for Officers in Grade II of Class 
2 of Sri Lanka information  and
communication technology 
Service
Establishments code 07 2020.03.29 9.00 a.m. - 11.00 a.m.
financial
Regulations 08 2020.03.29 11.30 a.m. - 1.30 p.m.
05
Efficiency Bar Examinations  
for Officers in Grade I of Class 
2 of Sri Lanka information  and
communication technology 
Service
Office systems and 
procedure 09 2020.03.29 12.30 p.m. - 2.30 p.m.
information and 
communication 
technology and 
e-government
10 2020.03.29 9.00 a.m. - 12.00 p.m.
15.0 any matter not referred to herein will be decided by director General of combined Services.
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 S. alokabandara,
 director General of combined Services Ministry of Public 
 administration, Home affairs, Provincial councils and 
 Local Government.
Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
Provincial councils and Local Government,  
independence Square,
colombo 07,
14th of february 2020.  
02–670
––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  PubLIC  ADmINISTRATION,  hOmE  AffAIRS,  PROvINCIAL  COuNCILS  
AND  LOCAL  GOvERNmENT
Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 1, Grade II of Class 1 and Grade I of 
Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service- 2018(I) 2020
  
1.0  it is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in Grade III of Class 1, Grade II of Class 1 
and Grade i of class 1 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service - 2018(i) 2020 will be held in 
colombo during weekends on 28th of March 2020 to 29th of March 2020, by the director General of Sri Lanka institute of 

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
414
development administration under the supervision of Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs, Provincial councils 
and Local Government.
2.0 these examinations shall be held as per the provisions of the Minute of Sri Lanka information and communication 
technology Service published in the Gazette Extra ordinary No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.
3.0 Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services will be as follows:
  
Serial
No. Name of the examination Code
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict l(iii)
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict l(ii)
3. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service SLict 1(i)
4.0 the candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the director General of Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration with regard to this examination. candidates will be subjected to any punishment 
imposed by disciplinary authority for violation of these rules.
5.0 Applications for the examination can strictly be made online. It is possible to start the filling application by 
selecting Examination of the tiLE MENu at the right side of main interface www.slida.lk, the official web site of the Sri 
Lanka institute of development administration.
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 28th of february 2020 up to 12.00 
midnight on 16th of March 2020.
6.0 examination Fees.- The officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination 
fees. However, for subsequent sittings officers shall pay Rs. 500/- for more than 1 subjects and they are required to pay                  
Rs. 300/- if they sit for only for one subject. Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the island (except sub 
post offices) or by using credit cards through the official web site of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration 
www.slida.lk. Payment should be credited to the “SLida” account and the number of the receipt issued shall be indicated 
in the relevant cages of the application. When filling the application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85) for 
payment of money to “SLida” account, “SLida” should be mentioned as the recipient. in the meantime, the code name of 
the relevant examination shall be indicated at the place for the recipient’s address. (the code names should be as mentioned 
in section 03)
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including the name of the applicant as 
the remitter and the N.i.c. number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter.
7.0 When the application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. candidates shall be able to get their admission card of the examination by way 
of following the instructions indicated in the web page to which the candidate shall have the access once the application duly 
perfected is sent online. The candidate shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the 
respective Head of the Department or a deputy officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card certified 
in this manner shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the examination. 
8.0 Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the 
telephone number 011 - 5980236 of Sri Lanka institute of development administration.

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
415
communication can be made through this line from 8.30 a.m. up to 4.30 p.m. during working days of the week 
from 28th of february 2020 up to 16th of March 2020.
9.0 Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number                             
011- 5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.
10.0 Identity of Candidates.– candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted 
to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a valid Passport
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration.
11.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. The officers shall sit for this examination 
in the language medium in which they have sat for the examination for entering into the relevant service or in an official 
language. The officers who have joined the service without a competitive examination shall sit for this examination in the 
language medium of education or an official language. Candidates shall not be allowed change language medium applied 
initially.
12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.
13.0 the results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the Ministry of Public administration, 
Home affairs, Provincial councils and Local Government once the results are issued by the director General of Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration to the Secretary. the relevant Heads of departments shall make recommendations 
for confirmation of service and promotions of the officers according to the results.
14.0 Scheme of examination : Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as 
follows.
14.1 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 13 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade 
iii of class 1 of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to Public 
Service, to sit for this examination.
Subject Subject 
No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a pass
Establishments code and administration 01 100 03 hours 40
financial Regulations and Public Sector 
financial management 02 100 03 hours 40
Management and organization 03 100 03 hours 40
 14.1.1 Establishments code and administration (Subject No. 01)
   a  question paper based on the following.
 (i) Organizing office and field activities and methods of organization.
 (ii) the following chapters of the Establishments code i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, 
XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii.
 (iii) Procedural Rules of Public Service commission.
  this question paper consists of essay type questions. 

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
416
14.1.2 financial Regulations and Public Sector financial Management (Subject No. 02) one question 
paper based on the following :
 (a) fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka, constitutional Provisions Relating to Public financial 
Management, Parliamentary control over Public finance, Meaning of fund, consolidated 
fund and its operation, Meaning and Methods of appropriation, contingencies fund, other 
funds and their operation, Government Revenue, Powers and functions of the Minister 
of finance, Warrants and impress authority, auditor General, his Powers and functions, 
committee on Public Expenditure, committee on Public Enterprises. 
 (b) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting 
Officers and their powers and functions. 
 (c) internal audit.
 (d) Public Expenditure Planning and Management, Identification of Organizational Objectives 
and Functions, Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and the Programmes, 
Planning and appraisal of development Projects and Programmes and Prioritization of 
them, formulation and finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure. 
 (e) Variations of approval Estimates  of Expenditure, application of Virement Procedure, 
Management of Public Sector cadres and Salaries, total cost Estimates and Revisions, 
Supplementary Estimates.
 (f) Losses and Waivers of Government Properties. 
 (g) Miscellaneous accounting Matters.
 (h) delegation of functions for financial control. 
 (i) custody of Public Money and bank accounts Procedure. 
 (j) Government procurement procedure, procurement of Goods, Services and Works, 
composition, appointment, Powers and functions of Procurement boards and technical 
Evaluation committees, Procurement Evaluation Procedure, Management of donor 
funded Projects. this question paper shall consist of essay type questions. 
14.1.3 Management and organization (Subject No. 03)
 one question paper based on following :
 (a) the principles of management and organization. 
 (b) the application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector.
 (c) the modern tools and techniques of management. 
 this question paper shall consist of essay type questions. 
14.2 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class I of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology Service (Schedule 14 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade 
ii of class i of Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to Public 
Service, to sit for this examination.
Subject Subject 
No. Mark Duration Cut - off marks pre-
scribed for a pass
Office Management 04 100 01 hour 40
e-government concept 
and information 
technology 
Management
Question paper 
i-Multiple choice 
Questions 05-i 40 01 hour 16
Question paper ii-Essay 
type 05-ii 60 01 hour 24

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
417
14.2.1 Office Management (Subject No. 4)
 Providing answers based on a given case in relation to management of human and physical 
resources of an office in public sector. 
14.2.2 e-government concept and information technology Management (Subject No. 05) 
 this question paper shall consist of 02 parts. 
(a) Question paper i - Multiple choce Questions
 e-Government concepts will consist of evolution of the e-Government system, its’ stages, 
basic elements of e-Government, e-Services and e-Government projects, state information 
and communication technology infrastructure, critical success factors of e-Government, 
e-Government Management interoperability and Service oriented architecture. 
(b) Question paper ii - Essay type
 information technology Management will consist of life cycle of information technology 
Projects, Importance of each stage and requirement of specific resources, Basic principles 
of information technology management, information technology Resources management, 
Risks of information technology projects and minimizing them. 
14.3 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class of Sri Lanka Information and communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 15 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class I of                 
Sri Lanka information and communication technology Service, which belongs to Public Service, to sit 
for this examination. 
Subject Subject 
No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks pre-
scribed for a pass
information 
and 
communication 
technology 
Project
Project Report 06-i 60 – 30
Presentation of the 
Project Report 06-ii 40
30 minutes for the 
presentation 
including questions 
and answers session
20
14.3.1 Project Report (Subject No. 06-i)
 Preparation of a project report of not less than fifteen thousand (15,000) words related to the 
subject filed of information and Communication Technology, which can be practically applied to 
enhance the productivity of offices of public sector in Sri Lanka.
14.3.2 Presentation of Project Report (Subject No. 06-ii)
 Presentation to the panel of examiners and answering the questions raised by the panel of 
examiners. 
 the time table for each subject of each examination is as follows :
Serial
No. Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
01
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for Officers 
in Grade iii of class i of 
Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
Establishments code and 
administration 01 2020.03.28 9.00 a.m. - 12.00 p.m.
financial Regulations and 
financial Management in 
Public Sector
02 2020.03.28 12.30 p.m. - 3.30 p.m.
Management and organization 03 2020.03.29 9.00 a.m. - 12.00 p.m.

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
418
Serial
No. Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
02
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for Officers 
in Grade ii of class i of 
Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
Office Management 04 2020.03.29 9.00 a.m. - 10.00 a.m.
e-Government 
concept and 
information 
technology 
management
Question 
paper i - 
McQ
05-i
2020.03.29 10.30a.m.-12.30p. m.
Question 
paper ii - 
Essay type
05-ii
03
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations for Officers 
in Grade i of class i of 
Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology 
Service
information and 
communication 
technology 
Project
Project 
Report 06-i candidates will be informed the time 
schedule for the submission and the 
presentation of the project report 
after the closing date of application 
by the director General of Sri 
Lanka institute of development 
administration. 
N.B.– Since the class i grade i 
efficiency bar examination which 
called by the Gazette notification 
2,063 and 16th March 2018 has 
not yet been held, the officers who 
applied that examination are not 
necessary to apply again. 
Presentation 
of the Project 
Report
06-ii
15.0 any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public administration, Home 
affairs, Provincial councils and Local Government. 
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail.
 S. 
HettiaraCHCHi,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs, Provincial 
 councils and  Local Government.
Ministry of Public administration, Home affairs,
Provincial councils and Local Government  
independence Square,
colombo 07,
14th of february 2020.  
02–669

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
419
mINISTRy Of SPORTS AND yOuTh AffAIRS 
National Institute of Sports Science
diPLoMa couRSE iN SPoRtS 2020
aPPLicatioNS are invited from suitably qualified 
candidates to follow the diploma course in Sports 
conducted in Sinhala Medium by the National institute of 
Sports Science of the Ministry of Sports and youth affairs. 
the applicants should be between 18-35 years of age.                                                                                                            
(the upper age limit for those who are in government 
service should not exceed 45 years)
01. Educational and other Qualifications :
 1.1  Should have passed G. c. E. ordinary Level 
Examination in six(6) subjects with three (03) 
credits in not more than two sittings and two 
of the six subjects should be Sinhala or tamil 
Language and arithmetic or Mathematics.
  in addition to the above, the applicants should 
have obtained :-
 (a) Should have sucessfully, completed a 
course in Sports or physical Education 
which is not less than six(06) months from 
a recognized school.
or
 (b) Should have successfully completed a 
course in sports or physical Education in 
a training institute or school of the Police, 
armed forces or civil defence Service.
 or
 (c) Should have served as a teacher in 
sports or Ground instructor in a Local 
Government body or should have shown 
special performance in the field of sports 
with at least five (05) years experience.
 or
 (d) Should be a member of a National Sports 
team in any sports and should have 
participated in an international competition
or
 (e) Should have obtained first or second place 
of a district Level competition in National 
Sports festival conducted by the Ministry 
of Sports or first, second or third place in a 
National Level competition conducted by 
a National Sports association.
 1.2 application which do not conform to the 
specimen form will be rejected.
02. Preparation of Application :
 2.1 Candidates possessing the necessary qualifications 
mentioned above should submit their applications 
in a paper of 8” x 13 1/2” in size as per specimen 
application form appearing at the end of this 
notice. applications should be completed 
in applicant’s own handwriting and sent by 
registered post to reach the director, National 
institute of Sports Science, 100/7, independence 
avenue, colombo 07, on or before 27.03.2020.
 2.2 “application for the course of diploma in Sports 
2020” should be written at the top left corner of 
the envelope containing the application.
 2.3 applicants from the Government Service 
Provincial Government Service, corporations 
should sned their applications through the heads 
of their respective departments/insitutions. 
the applications which to not conform to this 
requirement will be rejected.
03. Selection of Candidates.– out of the applications 
received, all candidates who have fulfilled required 
qualifications will be called for a written examination. 
the candidates who are succesfull at the examination will 
be called for an interview and a physical fitness practical 
examination. those who are successful will be selected to 
follow the course. 
04. Details of the course :
 4.1 Syllabus contains five sections as follows :
 (a) General Theory of Training.– study of 
Physical Qualities, Skill development 
techniques and Strategies, training 
Methods, aspects of Planning, Principles 
of training Load and tests and a viva voce 
examination. 
 (b) theory and practical of at least ten major 
sports. 
 (c) Specialization in track and field athletics.

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
420
 (d) Within the duration of the diploma course, 
specialization is required in one of sports 
for male and female candidates depending 
on the situation in addition to track and 
field athletics.
 (e) knowledge of general subjects such as 
Sports Physiology, Sports Sociology, 
Sports administration Sports Statistics, 
organizing Methods of Sports festivals, 
Sports Medicine, Sports biochemistry, 
Sports Nutrition and Sports Psychology. 
 4.2 the duration of the course is 12 months. 
 4.3 those who are selected to follow the course 
should pay a course fee of Rs. 60,000 before 
commencement of the course which is not 
refundable by any means. in the event the course 
fee is paid by a cheque, it should be deposited 
in favour of the “Ministry of Sports and youth 
affairs”. Please note that only those who paid the 
course fee in full prior to the commencement of 
the course will be enrolled to follow the course. 
 4.4 the selected candidates are bound to follow the 
rules and regulations of the National institute of 
Sports Science. 
 4.5 candidates who complete the course successfully 
will be awarded with a certificate of “Diploma in 
Sports”. 
05. Other Conditions :
 5.1 the Ministry does not hold responsibility to 
provide employment to those who complete the 
course. 
 5.2 However if the Ministry requires, those who 
are following this course should enter into an 
agreement with the director of the National 
institute of Sports Science, they should do so 
accordingly. 
 5.3 Highest qualifications or required qualifications 
should be stated in the application and any 
data/details provided thereinafter will not be 
entertained. 
 5.4 Any matter which is not specified in this notice 
will be decided at the discretion of the director 
of the National institute of Sports Science. 
  director, 
  National institute of Sports Science. 
No. 100/7, independence avenue, 
colombo 07, 
18th february, 2020.
Specimen application Form
national inStitute oF SportS Science
DIPLOMA IN SPORTS - 2020
01. (i) full Name : Mr/Mrs/Miss :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
 (iii) full Name (in English block capitals) : 
 (iv) National indentity card No. :
02.  address :
 (i) Private :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Official :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Telephone Official :–––––––––––.  Telephone Private :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
421
03.  date of birth :  y ear :          Month :  date :
 age on 27.03.2020 : y ears :      Months  :  days :
04. State Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
 (by descent or by registration) :–––––––––––.
05.  (i) Sex :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Marital Status :–––––––––––.
06. Whether you are employed or not  : 
  (i) Post :–––––––––––.
  (ii) duration of the service :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Working Place :–––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
  (i) G. c. E. (ordinary Level) :
         year
   Exam No. :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
  (ii) G. c. E. (advanced Level) :
         year :
   Exam No. :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
 (iii)  Other Education Qualification (Highest Exam /Degree) :
         year :
   Exam No.  :–––––––––––.
Subjects Grade

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
422
08. Achievements in Sports : (Please include your Certificates of highest achievements and special abilities -Please attach 
the photo copies)
  1. Performance at National Sports festival district/Provincial/National
   .................................................................................................................................................................................... 
....................................................................................................................................................................................
  2. Performance at National competitions conducted by National Sports associations 
   .................................................................................................................................................................................... 
....................................................................................................................................................................................
  3. Participation in international Sports competitions
   .................................................................................................................................................................................... 
....................................................................................................................................................................................
09.  (i)  according to the Gazette notification, Please state, under which qualification category of 1.1 that you are eligible 
to apply for the course.
a b c d e
 (ii) Give details of qualifications relevant to the category stated above :–––––––––––.
   .....................................
 
10. any other special remarks :–––––––––––.
11. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs 60,000 if selected :–––––––––––.
i certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. i am aware that if the Particulars furnished by me are 
found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the course.
 –––––––––––––––,
 applicant’s Signature.
date  :––––––––––––.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation employees Only :
director,
National institute of Sports Science :
i recommend herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss..................................… employee of ..............................… 
working as.......................................... and  i also agree to release him/her from the post he/she hold for the period of the 
course in the event of being selected.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Certifying Officer.
 (Confirmation with the rubber frank)
address  :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Certifying Officer  :––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––.
02-686

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
423
mINISTRy Of hEALTh AND  INDIGENOuS mEDICAL SERvICES
Recruitment for the Student Nursing Training - year 2019
aPPLicatioNS are called from eligible Sri Lankan citizens to recruit for the Student Nursing training of the Ministry of 
Health and Indigenous Medical Services. Applications could be submitted only through the official web site of the Ministry  
of Health (www.health.gov.lk)
Service Name of the training course/ profession Training period The medium in which the training 
should be followed
Nursing Nursing officer 03 years English
tabLE 01 
02. Educational qualifications and other specific qualifications relevant to the posts :
G. C. E. (O/L) Qualifications G.C.E. (A/L) Qualifications Other specific Qualifications 
relevant for the Training Course
Should have passed 06 
subjects with credit passes 
for Sinhala/ tamil Language, 
Mathematics, Science and 
English in not more than two 
sittings at the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination.
Should have passed any 03 subjects from biology, 
chemistry, agriculture, Physics and Mathematics 
which belong to bio Science subject stream in one 
sitting at the G. c. E. (a/L) Examination either in 
2017 or in 2018 (Except common General test and 
General English)
or
Should have passed any 03 subjects from combined 
Mathematics, chemistry, Physics and advanced 
Mathematics which belong to Physical Science 
subject stream in one sitting at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination either in 2017 or in 2018 (Except 
common General test and General English)
* Should be not less than 18 
years and not more than 28 
years of age at 31.03.2020.
* Should not be less than 4’ 10” 
  (147.3 cm) in height.
* Should be unmarried
* both males and females can 
apply.
3.  Particulars relevant to student nursing training :
 31. Recruitments for the student Nurses’ Training is done from the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications 
in terms of the Sri Lanka Nursing Service Minute published in the extraordinary Gazette No. 1837/8 dated 
19.11.2013 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments made there to from time 
to time. (Male applicants will be recruited based on the service exigency of the institutions under the Ministry 
subject to the provisions of the Nursing Service Minute).
 3.2. the total number to be recruited for student Nurses’ training from the island will be divided in proportion to the 
population in each district and then the number recruited from each district will be determined.
 3.3. thereafter the number to be recruited from each district will be divided in  proportion to the number of applicants 
who apply from the respective District in each year and have satisfied the minimum educational qualifications, 
and then number of recruits in each year from the respective districts will be determined.
 3.4. thereafter, the number of recruits in each year will be divided in proportion to the number of applicants who 
apply and satisfied the minimum educational qualifications from the Bio Science and Physical Science subject 
streams in the respective year and then the number of recruits from the respective district in each year from each 
subject stream will be determined.

<!-- page 58 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
424
 3.5. the number of recruits from each subject stream 
in each year will be determined as such and 5% 
out of the total number will be male applicants 
and 95% will be for female applicants. 
Recruitments will be made from the applicants 
who have obtained the highest Z-score from 
each subject stream in the respective district in 
each year.
4.  General Information :
 4.1. Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
 4.2. Every candidate should be physically fit to serve 
in any part of Sri Lanka in every way.
 4.3. Should be physically fit to perform the duties of 
the post.
 4.4. Should be excellent in character.
 4.5. Should be fit physically and mentally.
 4.6. y ou should agree to serve at least 10 years if 
a permanent appointment is granted in the line 
ministry public service or provincial public 
service after the training.
 4.7. y ou should have been a permanent resident of the 
district for three consecutive years immediately 
prior to the closing date of applications i.e. 
31.03.2020. The certificate of residence issued 
by the Grama Niladhari and countersigned by 
the divisional Secretary, should be submitted to 
certify it. 
Note: Where any candidate is unable to prove 
the residence during the preceding 3 years 
due to employment of his/ her father or 
mother in a transferrable service of the 
Government or of Provincial Public 
Service or as a State corporation or due 
to any other unavoidable reason, if he/
she provides acceptable reasons, the final 
decision will be taken by the Secretary 
of Ministry of Health and indigenous 
Medical Services. 
 (a) Where the number of vacancies set for a 
particular District cannot be filled by the 
eligible applicants of the respective district, 
such vacancies will be redistributed among 
all other districts, in proportionate to the 
population of each district.
5.  Other Information :
 5.1. this course is a full-time course. therefore, 
students who follow any full time course 
conducted by a university, any other 
Government institute or under the Ministry of 
Health and indigenous Medical Services on 
week days and Saturday mornings shall not 
apply for this. if any does so and it is revealed 
subsequently the applicant will be withdrawn 
from the course/ dismissed from the post and 
all the expenses incurred by the Government 
until then will be recovered from him/ her. if 
any person who is following a full time course 
at a university wishes to apply for this, he/ she 
shall comply with the following conditions 
(5.2). 
 5.2. if you have registered for a full time course 
at any university for a full time course at any 
university or any other Government institute 
you shall get your registration cancelled as at 
the date you are registered for this course. if 
you have registered with a university you will 
be considered as a university student even 
though you are not attending the lectures or 
have not attended the lectures. So that such 
applicants should also get their registration 
cancelled. you should be able to provide 
evidence in writing  in proof of the cancellation 
of your registration when necessary.
 5.3. if you have completed a degree in any 
university, the effective date should be a date 
which is earlier than date of recruitment to the 
course.
 5.4. Even though you had not registered for a 
course conducted by a university or under the 
Ministry of Health and indigenous Medical 
Services  by 31.03.2020 if you have  registered 
for above courses subsequently, you shall get 
such registration cancelled before you register 
for the above training programme.
 5.5. in case a candidate who has already registered 
for a full time course under Ministry of Health 
and indigenous Medical Services is selected 
for the above course, such candidate will be 
registered only if he/she repays the sum of 
the agreement entered into in relation to the 
previous training, and all allowances he/ she 
received and leaves the training concerned.

<!-- page 59 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
425
 5.6. it should be strictly noted that no section 
contained in this Gazette notification implies 
to admit you compulsory to the course applied 
for even if all the above conditions have been 
fulfilled. It should also be noted even if you 
have satisfied the above conditions you are 
not eligible for above courses in any respect 
if you have not obtained a sufficient Z score 
to be eligible or if you have not fulfilled any 
other condition.
 5.7. Educational qualifications and other all 
qualifications should be fulfilled in all 
respects by the closing date of applications 
i.e. 31.03.2020.
6.  The method of application :
 6.1. candidates shall apply for the above training 
course via the official website of the Ministry 
of Health and indigenous Medical Services 
(www.health.gov.lk). they are required to 
fill and submit the online application on the 
website. Instructions for filling the application 
form are available on the online application 
form.
 6.2. applicants should pay an amount of Rs. 
500 at any branch of bank of ceylon so as 
to credit to the account “director General of 
Health Services, collection of Examination 
fee” thaprobane branch of bank of ceylon                        
No. 7041318. this fee will not be refunded 
under any circumstance. it is not allowed 
to transfer this examination fee to any other 
examination. the receipt number obtained 
by paying this examination fee should 
be mentioned in the relevant place of the 
application. 
 6.3. you do not need to send copies of the uploaded 
application to the Ministry by post. However, 
keep the code with the 5 digits received after 
uploading the application safely, for obtaining 
printed copies later. if you are called for the 
interview, you should bring a duly signed 
and signature attested copy of the application 
when you are atten ding the interview. (See 
Section 7).
 Note: if you have any questions on completing the 
application, instructions could be obtained by 
contacting the Human Resources Management 
and coordinating unit of the Ministry of 
Health and indigenous Medical Services 
during working days of the week from 8.30 
a. m. to 4.15 p. m. via telephone Number                                                          
0112-693955.
 7. The attestation of the applicant’ s signature :
 7.1. the signature of the applicant should 
be attested by an officer in Sri Lanka 
Administrative Service/ an officer in 
Educational administrative Service/ an 
officer in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service/ a 
Government Principal/ a Justice of the Peace/ 
An attorney at Law or an officer who hold a 
permanent and pensionable post and draws a 
salary not less than Rs. 512,148.00.
 7.2. applications of the employees who serve 
in the Public Service or Semi Government 
institutions should be sent through the 
respective Head of department. it should be 
noted that this is an external recruitment.
 7.3.  the applications that are not complying with 
the above terms and on which the bank receipt 
is not affixed will be rejected without any 
notice.
8.  If you are called for the interview you shall submit the 
following documents :
 8.1. Out of the applicants those who have satisfied 
the minimum educational qualifications, 
according to the successfully upoladed 
online application only a selected  number 
of applicants will be called for the interview 
based on a priority list prepared  according 
to the Z score. a general interview will be 
held by a board of interview appointed by 
the Secretary to the Ministry of Health and 
indigenous Medical Services. the interview 
board will check the qualifications and 
physical fitness prescribed for each post by the 
Service Minute and this Gazette notification. 
applicants shall submit the originals of the 
following documents at the interview.
 8.2. Printed copy of the uploaded application duly 
attested.

<!-- page 60 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
426
 8.3. Birth Certificate.
 8.4. the G. c. E. (a/L) result sheet with the Z 
score issued by the Examinations department.
 8.5. G. c. E. (o/L) results Sheet issued by the 
Examinations department.
 8.6. National identity card which is issued by 
department for Registration of Persons or 
valid passport or valid driving license.
 8.7. Receipt obtained for the payment to the bank.
 8.8. Certificate of proving residence issued by 
the Grama Niladari counter signed by the 
divisional Secretary.
 8.9. A formal affidavit signed over a stamp at the 
value of Rs. 50.00 in the presence of a Justice 
of the Peace to confirm that the applicant is 
not married.
 8.10. a solemn declaration of the candidate that 
he/ she has not registered for or attending 
any other full time course conducted by any 
university or Government institute/ Ministry 
of Health Nutrition and indigenous Medical 
Services.
Note:
 (a) in addition to the originals of the documents 
mentioned from (8.3) to (8.7) above true 
copies of the originals certified by the 
applicant himself/ herself should be brought 
to the interview.
 (b) Secretary to Ministry of Health and indigenous 
Medical Services shall decide the number 
of recruits and the number of applicants 
to be called for the interview based on the 
capacity of the training schools and service 
requirements.
 (c) any section herein does not mean that all who 
are called for the interview are recruited and it 
should not be understood so.
 (d) following the interview, information of the 
selected candidates will be published on the 
website http://www.health.gov.lk and the 
candidates are not informed personally.
9.  Scheme of training :
 9.1. applicants selected from the interview will 
be admitted to training schools to follow the 
nursing training course. Period of the course 
and the medium in which the course should be 
followed mentioned in the table 01.
 9.2. trainees who are admitted to the training 
schools will be subject to the rules and 
regulations which are effective in the training 
schools and the orders imposed by the 
Ministry of Health and indigenous Medical 
Services from time to time.
 9.3. training of those who fail the prescribed 
examinations, whose work and conduct 
are not satisfactory of who fail to adhere 
to relevant conditions of examination and 
conditions of leave of the training school or 
whose educational and other qualifications are 
found to be false, may be terminated at any 
time without any compensation.
 9.4. a monthly allowance will be paid to 
the  trainees during the training in terms 
of the provisions of Section V of Public 
administration circular 03/2016.
 9.5. at the time he/she is admitted to the training 
school, he/she should enter into an agreement 
and surety bond with the director General 
of Health Services that he/she will complete 
the training successfully, not abandon the 
training and service in the relevant post in the 
Public Service/Provincial Public Service for a 
minimum period of 10 years if appointment is 
granted after completing the said training. if 
he/she resigns from the training, abandon the 
training, or his/her training is terminated as 
per the terms in (9.3) above or fails to service 
in the relevant post for a period of 10 years 
after appointment he/ she should refund the 
Ministry of Health and indigenous Medical 
Services the allowance paid to, expenses 
incurred by the Government  and the amount 
of the agreement. if not, legal action will be 
taken to recover the said amount as per the 
agreement.
 9.6 applicants who apply for nursing training 
should be unmarried as at the closing date 
of applications and should remain unmarried 
during the period of training.

<!-- page 61 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'02'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.02.2020
427
10.  Terms of employment :
 10.1. Government is not bound to grant permanent 
appointments at the end of the training. 
However, the candidates will be considered 
for appointing to a post in class iii of the post 
concerned on the basis of the merit obtained 
at the final examination of the training to fill 
the vacancies remaining after making the 
transfers of Senior Officers, according to the 
priority list of vacancies prepared based on the 
vacancies exist as at the date of completion 
of the training. further selected applicants 
should serve in any part of the Sri Lanka, 
based on existing vacancies. 
 10.2 if permanent appointment is granted at the 
end of the training period, salaries will be 
paid in terms of the provisions of the Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016.
 10.3. applicants should carefully and accurately 
fill the particulars of Education and other 
qualifications in the application. If the 
above certificates are proved to be false 
after recruitment to the training or after 
appointment, action will be taken to refer 
the case to the criminal investigation 
department for taking legal action/ to cancel 
the appointment, to dismiss him/ her from the 
training/ post, and to enter his/ her name into 
the black list of those who are not permitted 
to be reemployed in the Public Service after 
taking disciplinary action against him/ her. 
action will be taken to recover the allowance 
paid to him/ her during the training period, 
expenses incurred by the Government, and the 
amount of the agreement and Surety bond.
 10.4. Selected applicants should submit themselves 
for a medical examination during the first 
month of the training to certify that the 
applicant is physically and mentally fit to 
follow the course and to serve in any part of 
the island and if an applicant is found to be 
unfit from the medical examination he/ she 
will be disqualified from the training.
 10.5. all persons selected as above will be 
subjected to provisions of the Establishment 
code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka rules, regulations and orders imposed 
by the Public Service commission regarding 
the Public Service, provisions of the service 
minutes, financial Regulations, circulars and 
instructions of the Government and orders 
imposed and amendments made thereto from 
time to time.
 10.6. this Ministry is not bound to provide hostel 
facilities in the training schools for the 
applicants recruited for the training. if such 
facilities provided, rent assessed for a housing 
room, water and electricity bills will be 
charged.
 10.7. you have no right to engage in trade union 
activities during the period of training. if it is 
found to have done so will be removed from 
training or take other appropriate action. 
 10.8. if any problem arises regarding recruitment 
to the training or any matter covered or not 
covered by this Gazette notification, the 
decision of the Secretary of Health and 
Indigenous Medical Services will be final. 
in case of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text, the text in 
Sinhala will prevail.
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Health and 
 indigenous Medical Services.
“Suwasiripaya”,
385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo - 10.
18th february, 2020.
02-693
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.