

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2261$57 - 2022 ckjdß ui 06 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'01'06
No.  2261/57  -   Thursd Ay,   jANuAry  06,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist  Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
L.d.B 3/2013 (ii)
MERChANT ShIPPING  ACT, No. 52 Of 1971
rEGuLATIONs made by the Minister of Ports and shipping under section 321 of the Merchant shipping Act, No. 52 of 
1971 read with section 139 of the said Act. 
Rohitha Abeygunawardena,
Minister of Ports and shipping.
Colombo,
29th december 2021.
Regulations
1. (1)  These regulations may be cited as the Merchant shipping (Management for the safe Operation of ships) regulations,  
No. 9 of 2021.
(2) The	purpose	of	these	regulations	shall	be	to	give	effect	to	Chapter	IX	of	the	International	Convention	for	the	Safety
of Life at sea 1974, Protocol of 1988 as amended from time to time and any subsequent amendment made to such
Protocol, and International safety Management Code (hereinafter referred to as the “IsM Code”).
1A-   G 35896 — 510  (01/2022)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
2A
PArT 1
Applicability of these regulations
2.  (1)  subject to the provisions of the sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, these regulations shall apply to the categories 
of	ships	referred	to	in	paragraphs	(a),	(b)	and	(c)which	are	entitled	to	fly	Sri	Lanka	flag	and	engaged	in	international	
voyages, and to any other foreign ships which are in sri Lanka waters: -
(a)  to the passenger ships including passenger high speed crafts, of any size; 
(b) to the oil tankers, chemical tankers, gas carriers, bulk carriers, and cargo high – speed crafts of 500 gross 
tonnage or more; and
(c)	to	other	cargo	ships	and	mobile	offshore	drilling	units	of	500	gross	tonnage	or	more.       
(2)    Except expressly provided otherwise in the Convention for the safety of Life at sea 1974, Protocol of 1988 (in 
these regulations referred to as the “Convention”), these regulations shall not apply to: -
   (a) ships of war and troopships;
   (b) ships not propelled by mechanical means;
   (c) wooden ships of primitive build;
   (d) pleasure yachts not engaged in trade;
		 	 (e)	fishing vessels; and
   (f) government operated ships used for non-commercial purposes.
3. (1)  A ship which is not normally engaged on international voyages but which, in exceptional circumstances, is required 
to undertake a single international voyage may be exempted by the director-General of Merchant shipping (in 
these regulations referred to as the “director-General”) from any of the requirements of these regulations:
   Provided that, such ship shall comply with safety management requirements which are adequate in the opinion of 
the director-General for the voyage which is to be undertaken by the ship.
  (2)  An exemption granted under this regulation shall be issued in accordance with the Merchant shipping (surveys 
and	Certificates)	Regulations,	2021	published	in	the	Gazette No. 2261/49 of 06.01.2022.
  (3)  The director-General may, on giving reasonable notice, alter or cancel any exemption granted under this regulation.
PArT II
Safety Management Requirements
4. (1)  The company and the ship shall comply with the requirements of the IsM Code. For the purpose of this regulation, 
the requirements of the IsM Code shall be treated as mandatory.
  (2)  A ship to which these regulations apply shall be operated by a company holding a valid document of Compliance 
or a valid Interim document of Compliance issued to it under regulations 5 and 6 respectively.
 5.  (1)  The director-General or an organisation  recognized by the director-General (hereinafter referred to as the “recognized 
organization”) shall issue a document of Compliance to every company which complies with the provisions of the 
IsM Code.
  (2)  A copy of the document of Compliance shall be kept on board the ship and shall be produced by the master of the 
ship	on	request.	The	copy	of	the	document	shall	not	be	required	to	be	authenticated	or	certified.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
3A
		 (3)		 	The	Director-General	or	a	recognised	organisation	shall	issue	a	Safety	Management	Certificate	to	every	Sri	Lanka	
ship	to	which	these	regulations	apply.	Before	issuing	the	Safety	Management	Certificate,	the	Director-General	or	
a recognized organisation shall verify that the company and its shipboard management operate in accordance with 
the safety-management system as prescribed in the IsM Code. 
		 (4)		 	Subject	to	regulation	10,	a	Document	of	Compliance	and	a	Safety	Management	Certificate	shall	be	valid	for	a	
period	not	exceeding	five	years	from	the	date	of	issue.
6.  (1)  An Interim document of Compliance may be issued by the director-General or a recognized organization to 
facilitate	initial	implementation	of	the	ISM	code	upon	being	satisfied	that	-	a	company	is	newly	established	or	new	
ship	types	are	to	be	added	to	an	existing	Document	of	Compliance	following	verification,	provided	the	company	
shall demonstrate plans to implement a safety management system meeting the full requirements of the IsM code 
within the period of validity of the Interim document of Compliance.
  (2)  subject to regulation 10, an Interim document of Compliance shall be valid for twelve months. 
  (3)  A copy of the Interim document of Compliance shall be kept on board the ship and shall be produced by the master 
of	the	ship	on	request.	The	copy	of	the	document	shall	not	be	required	to	be	authenticated	or	certified.
		 (4)		 An	Interim	Safety	Management	Certificate	may	be	issued	by	the	Director-General	or	a	recognised	organisation;
   (a) to new ships on delivery or major conversions ; 
   (b) to ships the responsibility for the management of which has been newly undertaken by the company; or
		 	 (c)	to	ships	accepted	for	first	registry	under	the	 Act.
		 (5)		 An	Interim	Safety	Management	Certificate	referred	in	sub-regulation	(4)	of	this	regulation	shall	be	issued	following	
verification	that:-
(a) the document of Compliance, or the Interim document of Compliance, is relevant to the ship concerned;
(b) the safety management system provided by the Company for the ship concerned includes key elements of the 
IsM Code and has been assessed during the audit for issuance of the document of Compliance or demonstrated 
for issuance of the Interim document of Compliance;
(c) the company has planned the internal audit of the ship within three months; 
(d)		the	master	and	officers	are	familiar	with	the	safety	management	system	and	the	planned	arrangements	for	its	
implementation;
(e)	 instructions,	which	have	been	identified	as	being	essential,	are	provided	prior	to	sailing;	and	
(f)  relevant information on the safety management system has been given in the English language.
		 (6)		 Subject	to	regulation	10,	an	Interim	Safety	Management	Certificate	shall	be	valid	for	six	months.	In	special	cases,	
the director-General or, with the permission of the director-General, a recognized organisation, may extend the 
validity	of	such	Certificate	for	a	further	six	months	upon	submission	of	justifiable	reasons.
		 (7)				The	Document	of	Compliance	and	the	Safety	Management	Certificate	referred	in	regulation	5,	and	Interim	Document	
of	Compliance	and	Interim	Safety	Management	Certificate	referred	to	in	regulation	6	shall	be	drawn	up	in	the	form	
corresponding to the models given in the IsM Code and they shall be on board in the working language and in 
English language.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
4A
7.	 	 	In	case	of	a	foreign	ship,	the	Document	of	Compliance	and	the	Safety	Management	Certificate	referred	to	in	
regulation	5,	and	Interim	Document	of	Compliance	and	Interim	Safety	Management	Certificate	referred	in	regulation	
6	shall	be	issued	by	the	State	whose	flag	the	ship	flying	or	the	recognized	organization	acting	on	behalf	of	it.
8.	 	 All	 verifications	required	by	the	ISM	Code	in	respect	of	the	Document	of	Compliance	and	the	Safety	Management	
Certificate	referred	in	regulation	5,	shall	be	carried	out	in	the	period	required	by	the	ISM	Code	taking	into	account	
the	guidelines	developed	by	the	organization.	Such	verifications	shall	include	an	audit	of	the	safety	management	
system.
9.  (1)  The director-General may inspect any company, or ship, to which these regulations apply.
  (2)  In such cases where – 
   (a) a passenger or crew member complains, or 
		 	 (b)			(i)	there	are	findings	from	a	Survey	or	general	inspection;	or	
		 	 		 (ii)	accidents	or	serious	machinery	failures	indicate	possible	deficiencies	in	the	safety	management	system,	
follow-up	additional	verification	of	the	ship	or	company	may	be	conducted	by	the	Director-General	or	a	recognized	organisation.
10.  (1)  In any of the circumstances listed in sub-regulation (2), the director-General may by notice in writing suspend or 
cancel any relevant document issued under the IsM Code with the reasons assigned thereafter.
  (2)  The circumstances referred to in sub-regulation (1) are—
(a)  the document was issued on the basis of incorrect information;
(b)  an audit required by Part B of the IsM Code in respect of the document has not taken place in the period 
required by the IsM Code;
(c)  the management structure of the company or the ship has changed since the most recent audit; or
(d)  where upon audit the ship or company is found to be no longer in compliance with the IsM Code.
		 (3)				Any	 associated	Safety	Management	Certificates	or	Interim	Safety	Management	Certificates	shall	become	invalid	
if a notice given under sub-regulation (1) in respect of a document of compliance.
  (4)   A notice under sub-regulation (1) is valid, only if—
(a)  the holder of the relevant document was given the opportunity to make representations before the notice was 
given; or
(b)  the director-General considers that urgent safety or pollution prevention considerations require the notice to 
be given immediately.
11.   (1)    (a)   The director-General may, at the request of a government of a state to which the Convention applies, audit 
the safety management system of a ship registered in that country; and the company.
(b)		Where,	having	carried	out	an	audit	in	response	to	such	a	request,	the	Director-General	is	satisfied	that	the	
requirements of the IsM Code are met, the director-General may issue to the company a document of 
Compliance	or	a	Safety	Management	Certificate,	or,	where	appropriate,	endorse	such	a	document	in	accordance	
with	the	requirements	of	the	Convention	after	applicable	verifications	as	specified	in	the	ISM	Code.	Any	

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
5A
certificate	so	issued	or	endorsed	shall	contain	a	statement	to	the	effect	that	it	has	been	issued	at	the	request	of	
the	government	of	the	State	whose	flag	the	ship	is	flying	and	it	shall	have	the	same	force	and	receive	the	same	
recognition	as	a	certificate	issued	by	the	governments	which	made	the	request.
(2)  (a)  The director-General may request the government of a state to which the Convention applies, to audit the safety 
management system of a ship registered in sri Lanka and the company.
		 (b)		 Where,	such	state	having	carried	out	an	audit	in	response	to	such	a	request	and,	is	satisfied	that	the	requirements	of	
the	ISM	Code	are	met,	shall	issue	to	the	company	a	Document	of	Compliance	or	a	Safety	Management	Certificate,	
or, where appropriate, endorse such document in accordance with the requirements of the Convention after applicable 
verifications	as	specified	in	the	ISM	Code.	Any	certificate	so	issued	or	endorsed	shall	contain	a	statement	to	the	
effect	that	it	has	been	issued	at	the	request	of	the	Government	of	Sri	Lanka	and	it	shall	have	the	same	force	and	
receive	the	same	recognition	as	a	certificate	issued	by	the	Director-General.
12. (1)  Every Company shall designate one or more persons ashore having direct access to the highest level of the 
management to ensure the safe operation of each ship and to provide a link between the company and those on-
board ships of the company.
  (2)  The responsibility and authority of the designated person shall be in accordance with the IsM Code.
  (3) In pursuant to sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, person undertaking the role of the designated Person under the 
provisions	of	the	International	Safety	Management	(ISM)	Code	shall	possess	necessary	qualifications,	training	and	
experience as prescribed in the guidelines developed by the Organsiation.
  (4)  Every company that designates such persons pursuant to sub-regulation (1) shall notify the director-General about 
their	designation	along	with	their	qualification,	training	and	experience	soon	after	the	designation.
13.   The safety management system shall be maintained in accordance with the provisions of the IsM Code.
14.			 A 	ship	required	to	hold	a	certificate	issued	pursuant	to	the	provisions	of	regulation	5	(3)	shall	be	subjected	to	control	
in	accordance	with	the	provisions	of	regulation	4	of	the	Chapter	XI-I	of	the	Convention.	For	this	purpose,such	
certificate	shall	be	treated	as	a	certificate	issued	under	regulations	12	or13	of	Chapter	I	of	the	Convention.
PArT III
General Provisions
15.  Where any ship, being in any port or place in sri Lanka, is found to be an unsafe ship, is, by reason of the defective 
condition of such ship’s hull, equipment, machinery, under manning, overloading or improper loading or any other 
condition	that	is	not	consistent	with	the	Convention,	unfit	to	proceed	to	sea	without	serious	damage	to	human	life	
having regard to the nature of the service for which such ship is intended, such ship may be provisionally detained 
for the purpose of being surveyed or rectifying the defective condition.
16.	 	 The	footnotes	in	Chapter	IX	of	the	Convention	and	the	resolutions,	circulars	or	documents	referred	by	such	footnotes	
shall be deemed to be a part of these regulations.
17.  The director-General may, with the concurrence of the Minister issue such implementing standards for the compliance 
with the minimum technical standards of the provisions of the Convention or Protocol 1988 as may be required for 
the implementation of the provisions of these regulations.
18.  In these regulations –
   “act” means Merchant shipping Act No.52 of 1971

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'01'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 06.01.2022
6A
   “audit” means a systematic and independent examination to determine whether the safety Management system 
complies	with	the	planned	arrangements	and	such	arrangements	are	implemented	effectively	and	are	sufficient	to	
achieve the desired objectives;
   “bulk carrier” means a ship which is constructed generally with single deck, top-side tanks and hopper side tanks 
in cargo spaces, and is intended primarily to carry dry cargo in bulk, and includes such types as ore carriers and 
combination carriers;
   “chemical tanker” means a cargo ship constructed or adapted and used for the carriage in bulk of any liquid product 
listed in Chapter 17 of the International Bulk Chemical Code;
   “company” means the owner of the ship or any other organization or person such as the manager, or the bareboat 
charterer, who has assumed the responsibility for operation of the ship from the owner of the ship and who on 
assuming such responsibility has agreed to take over all the duties and responsibilities imposed by the International 
safety Management Code;
		 	 “gas	 carrier”	means	a	cargo	ship	constructed	or	adapted	and	used	for	the	carriage	in	bulk	of	any	liquefied	gas	or	
other product listed in Chapter 19 of the International Gas Carrier Code;
   “high-speed craft” means a craft capable of a maximum speed, in metres per second (m/s), equal to or exceeding: 
   3.7 ∇
0.1667
   where:  ∇ = volume of displacement corresponding to the design waterline (m3) excluding craft the hull of which 
is supported completely clear above the water surface in non-displacement mode by aerodynamic forces generated 
by	ground	effect;
   “international safety Management (IsM) Code” means the International Management Code for the safe Operation 
of ships and for Pollution Prevention adopted by the Organization by resolution A.741(18), as may be amended by 
the Organization;
		 	 “mobile	 offshore	drilling	unit”	means	a	vessel	capable	of	engaging	in	drilling	operations	for	the	exploration	for	or	
exploitation of resources beneath the sea-bed such as liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons, sulphur or salt;
		 	 “oil	 tanker”means	the	oil	tanker	defined	in	regulation	1	of	Annex	I	of	the	Protocol	of	1978	to	the	International	
Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from ships, 1973;
   “organisation” means International Maritime Organisation;
   “safety management  system” means a structured and documented system enabling Company personnel to implement 
effectively	the	Company	safety	and	environmental	protection	policy.
EOG 01- 0249
PrINTEd AT ThE dEPArTMENT OF GOVErNMENT PrINTING,  srI LANKA.