

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2346$42 - 2023 wf.daia;= ui 23 jeks nodod - 2023.08.23
No. 2346/42  -  WedNesday,   august  23 ,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 6459 - 21 (08/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
ThE  uRbAN   DEvELOPmENT   AuThORITY   LAw  No. 41  Of 1978
Order under Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 3 of the Urban Development Authority Law No. 41, 1978 as amended, 
I, Prasanna Ranathunga, the Minister of Urban Development and Housing being of the opinion that the area specified in 
Column I of the Schedule hereto and having the metes and bounds specified in the corresponding entry in column II of that 
Schedule is suitable for development, do by this Order, declare such area to be an Urban Development Area for the purpose 
of that Section. 
 Prasanna Ranathunga (M.P),
 Minister of Urban Development and Housing.
Ministry of Urban Development and Housing,
17th and 18th Floor,
“Suhurupaya”, Subhuthipura Road,
Battaramulla,
08th August, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2023
2a
Column I
All the areas of lands falling within the Grama Niladari 
Divisions No. 396 Siyambalawewa, No. 343 Saliyagama,  
No.395 Hakwatunawa, No. 365 Koruwawa, No. 374 
Rambe, No. 372 Maeliya South, No. 354 Polpithigama, 
No. 352 Bogolla, No. 369 Raawa Ela, No. 368 Balagolla, 
No. 366 Galtangwewa, No. 355 Amunakole, No. 348 
Kiribamunegama, No. 347 Madagalla, No. 371 Maelya North, 
No. 373 Agare, No.370 Dagama, No. 353 Kubukulawa,  
No. 346 Pathirannegama within the Polpithigama Pradeshiya 
Sabaha in Polpithigama Divisional Secretarieat Division 
area in Kurunegala District in North Western Province and 
having the metes and bounds specified in corresponding 
entry in Column II of this schedule.
SCHEDULE  I
Diclaration of Polpithigama Pradeshiya Sabha Area as an urban Development Area
Column II
North:
Starting from the intersection point of Northern and Western 
Boundaries of No. 346 Pathirannegama Grama Niladhari 
Division, a line drawn Southeast wards along the Northern 
boundary of the said divisions until it meets the Northern 
boundary of the No. 343 Saliyagama Grama Niladhari 
Division, Thence a line drawn North East wards, North 
wards, Southeast wards, South wards, again South East 
wards and North East wards (intersecting Galgamuwa - 
Nikawewa road and Madagalla - Moragollagama road) 
along the said boundary until it meets the Eastern boundary 
of said division.
East:
From the last mentioned point a line drawn South wards, 
South wards,  South Eastwards and again South wards 
along the Eastern boundary of No. 343 Saliyagama Grama 
Niladari Division until it meets the Northern boundary 
of No. 348 Kiribamunegama Grama Niladhari Division, 
Thence a line drawn South East wards, South wards, East 
wards and again South East wards and south wards along 
the said boundary until it meets the Southern boundary 
of said divisions, Thence a line drawn West wards of said 
boundary until it meets the Eastern boundary of No. 353 
Kumbukulawa Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line 
drawn South wards, South East wards and South wards 
along the said boundary until it meets the Eastern boundary 
of No. 352 Bogolla Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line 
drawn South west wards South wards, South, South East 
wards along the said boundary until it meets the Northern 
boundary No. 396 Siyambalawewa Grama Niladhari 
Division, Thence a line drawn South East wards along the 
said boundary until it meets the Eastern boundary of the said 
division, Thence a line drawn South West wards along the 
said boundary until it meets Eastern boundary of No. 368 
Balagolla Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn 
South East wards and South wards along the said boundary 
until it meets the Eastern boundary of No. 395 Hakwatunawa 
Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn South 
wards and East wards along the said boundary until it 
meets the Southern boundary of the said division. Thence 
a line drawn West wards, Southwards and again West wards 
along the Said boundary until it meets Eastern Boundary of  
No. 373 Agare Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line 
drawn Southwards, Eastwards, again South wards, Southeast 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2023
3a
wards and South wards along the said boundary until it meets 
Southern boundary of the said division. Thence a line drawn 
West wards, South wards, Northwest wards, again South 
wards and Northwest wards along the said boundary until 
it meets the Eastern Boundary of No 371 Maeliya North 
Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn South wards 
and Southwest wards along the said boundary until it meets 
the Eastern Boundary of No. 372 Maeliya South Grama 
Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn Southwest wards 
and South wards along the said boundary until it meets the 
Northern boundary of No. 374 Rambe Grama Niladhari 
Division, Thence a line drawn Southeast wards East wards 
along the said boundary until it meets the Eastern boundary 
of said division, Thence a line drawn South wards, East 
wards and again South Wards along the said boundary until 
it meets the Southern Boundary of said division.
South: 
From the last mentioned point a line drawn West wards along 
the Southern boundary of No. 374 Rambe Grama Niladhari 
Division, and intersecting the Ibbagmauwa - Kumbukgate 
road until it meets western boundary of said division, Thence 
a line drawn North wards  along the said boundary until it 
meets the Southern boundary of No. 372 Maelya South 
Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn Northwest 
wards and Westwards along the said boundary until it meets 
the Western boundary of said division.
West:
From the last mentioned point a line drawn Northwards, 
Northwest wards, Southwest wards along the Western 
boundary of the No. 372 Maeliya South Grama Niladhari 
Division until it meets Western boundary of No. 371 
Maeliya North Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line 
drawn Northwest wards and Northeast wards  along the said 
boundary until it meets the Western boundary of No. 370 
Dagama Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn 
Northeast wards North west wards and again Northwards 
along the said boundary, until meets the Southern boundary 
of the No. 365 Koruwawa Grama Niladhari Division Thence, 
a line drawn Southwest wards  along the said boundary 
until it meets the Southern Boundary of the said Division, 
Thence line drawn Westwards along the said boundary and 
intersecting the Mudangalle Moragollagama road until it 
meets the Western boundary of the said division. Thence 
a line drawn North wards and Northeast wards along the 
said boundary until it meets  the Western boundary of the 
No. 366 Galtanwewa Grama Niladhari Division, Thence, a 
line drawn Northeast wards and Northwards  along the said 
Column I Column II

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.08.2023
4a
boundary until it meets the Western boundary of No. 354 
Polpithigma Grama Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn 
Northwards  along the said of No. 355 Amunakole Grama 
Niladhari Division, Thence a line drawn North west wards  
along the said boundary until it meets the Western boundary 
of the said Division. Thence a line drawn Northwards and 
North west wards, along the said boundary until it meets 
the Northern boundary of the said division. (until it meets 
the center line of the Maho-Madagalla road) Thence a line 
drawn East wards along the said boundary until it meets 
the Western Boundary of No. 346 Pathirannegama Grama 
Niladari Division, Thence a line drawn North wards, North 
west wards and North east wards along the said boundary 
until it meets the starting point.
EOG 08 - 0259
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
Column I Column II