

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
477
477
¡â¤ 1 ,444 _ 2006  ˜æ˘œ 05  Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.05.05
No. 1,444 – FRIDAY,  MAY   05  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 480
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 485
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th May, 2006 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 28th April, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.– Part II of the Gazette No. 1,443 of 28.04.2006 was not published.
Note.—(i) Ceylon Electricity Board (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 07, 2006.
(ii)  Electricity Reform (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 07, 2006.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
478
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
479
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B2—B 079209

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
480
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages Kandy District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Regisration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 6th June 2006.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11,
10th April, 2006.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s applications are called applications should
Division be sent
Kandy P asbage Post of Registrar of  Muslim District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
marriages in Malwahinna General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
area in Harispattuwa
Division.
Kandy Udadumbara Post of Registrar of  marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
in Udadumbara Division. General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of  Muslim District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
marriages in Watadeniya General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
area in Udunuwara &
Yatinuwara Division.
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of  Muslim District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
marriages in Welamboda General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
area in Udunuwara and
Yatinuwara Division.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
481
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of  Muslim District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
marriages in Elamaldeniya General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
area in Udunuwara and
Yatinuwara Division.
Kandy Gangawata Post of Registrar of  Muslim District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
  Korale marriages in Katugastota General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
area in Four Gravets &
Gangawata Korale.
Kandy Thumpane Post of Registrar of  Muslim District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
marriages in Dehideniya General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
Madine area in Thumpane
Division.
05-12
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s applications are called applications should
be sent
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births, and Deaths Anuradhapura District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 6th June 2006.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11,
10th April, 2006.
B 4 – B 079259

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
482
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s applications are called applications should
Division be sent
Anuradhapura Horrowpathana Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(Kandyan/General) in Hurulu General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
Palatha and births and deaths in
Mahapothana South Division.
Anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(Kandyan/General) in Kalagam General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
Palatha Division and births and
deaths in Maminiya Korale  Division.
Anuradhapura Nochchiyagama Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(Kandyan/General) in Nuwaragam General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
Palatha Division and births and deaths
in Dunumadalawa Division.
Anuradhapura Nochchiyagama Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(Kandyan/General) in Nuwaragam General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
Palatha Division and births and deaths
in Gala Divulwewa Division.
Anuradhapura Thirippane Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(Kandyan/General) in Hurulu General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
Palatha Division and births and
deaths  in Ulagalla South Division.
Anuradhapura Galen Bindunu Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
Wewa (Kandyan/General) in Hurulu General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
Palatha Division and births and deaths
in Seevalipura Division.
Anuradhapura Nuwaragam Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
Palatha East (Kandyan/General) in Nuwaragam General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
Palatha Division and births and deaths
in Vijayapura Division.
Anuradhapura Nuwaragam Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
Palatha East (Kandyan/General) in Madawachchiya General, District Secretariat, Anuradhapura.
area of Nuwaragam Palatha
Division.
05-13
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births, and Deaths Matara District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriage Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both male and female can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
483
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 6th June 2006.
L. K. R
ATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11,
10th April, 2006.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s applications are called applications should
Division be sent
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(General) in Weligam Korale General, Matara.
and births and deaths in
Midigama Division.
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar of marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(General) in Weligam Korale General, Matara.
and births and deaths in
Kotawila Division.
05-14
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births, and Deaths Polonnaruwa District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriage Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 60 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as district Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
484
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 6th June 2006.
L. K. RATHNASIRI ,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11,
10th April, 2006.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’ s applications are called applications should
Division be sent
Polonnaruwa Thamankaduwa Post of Registrar of Marriages District Secretary/ Addl. Registrar
(Kandyan/and General) in General, District Secretariat,
Thamankaduwa Division and Polonnaruwa.
births and deaths in Meda
Pattu South Division.
05-15
THE GOVERNMENT OFFICERS’ BENEFIT ASSOCIATION
Post of Secretary and Accountant
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of  “Secretary and Accountant” of this Association from Officers (Male or Female) those who
have following qualifications.
(i) Class I officers in service of the Public Management Assistant Service.
(ii)Applicant should be a permanent resident within 30 miles from Colombo.
(iii)Applicant should be below 53 years of age on 01.07.2006.
(iv) Applicant should have minimum 15 years Government Service experience.
(v) Applicant should be able to  work in Sinhala and English languages.
(vi) Prefarenee will be given to Applicant who are members of the Association and to those who process Accounting and
Administration Qualifications and experience and knowledge in Tamil Language.
Salary scale applicable to this post is as follows:
Consolidated Salary and additional Allowance of 50% of same.
The selected candidate will be seconded for service in the Association  for a period of 02 years He will be required to furnish
security in sum o f Rs. 10,000 through a  Guarantee Bond of the Insurance Corporation.
Applications in the Applicants own handwriting giving full details should be sent through the Head of Department to reach the
undersigned on or before 31.05.2006 under Registered Cover.
W. L. T. S
UMATHIRATHNA ,
President,
Government Officers’ Benefits Association.
No. 65/1,
Sir Chittampalam A. Gardinar Mawatha,
Colombo 02.
21st April, 2006.
05-72

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
485
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority Institute of Engineering Technology (Former TTI) - Katunayake
RECRUITMENT OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR NATIONAL DIPLOMA
 IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE 2006 BA TCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit Special Apprentices in Engineering for the 2006 batch in respect of the
above course  of studies at Institute of Engineering Technology, (former Technician Training Institute) Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for entry :
Candidates with qualifications mentioned below are eligible to apply.
1.1 A Pass at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in one sitting including a minimum of 03 credit passes including
Mathamatics, Sciences and Language.
and
1.2 (a) Passes at the G.C.E. (A/L - Old Syllabi) in Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics and Physics in one sitting
or
(b) Passes at the G.C.E. (A/L - Old Syllabi) in Pure Mathematics, Applied Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry in two
sittings.
or
(c) Passes at the G.C.E. (A/L- New Syllabi) in Combined Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry in one sitting.
2. Age : Between 18 and 25 years as at 01.12.2006.
3. Duration and Course Schedule :
This is a four year course, wherein a 73 week (approximately) academic instruction Programme is sandwiched with a 135 week
(approximately) Industrial Trainning as given below.
Basic Instruction Programme at IET
(Including English Intensive) - - 27 Weeks
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 39 Weeks
General Instruction Programme at IET - 23 Weeks
General Industrial Training in Industry - 52 Weeks
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 23 Weeks
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 44 Weeks
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical Instructions and course works conducted at Institute of Engineering Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized Industrial Establishments.
4. Courses are conducted in IET as follow :
1. Civil Building and Structural Engineering
2. Civil Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Civil Water and Environmental Engineering
4. Electronics Engineering
5. Electrical Power Engineering
6. Telecommunication Engineering
7. Mechanical Automotive Engineering
8. Mechanical General Engineering
9. Marine Engineering

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
486
(a.) “The Quality Management System of Marine Engineering (No. 09) Division of IET is in accordance with the requirements
of ISO 9001-2000
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course the Institute is engaged in providing academic instructions and industrial training
Programmes to meet the mandatory requirements for knowledge, understanding and proficiency in Marine Engineering at
the operational level related with STCW 95 inculding its amendments and model course 7.04 of International Maritime
Organization (IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction : English
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a contract with the training establishment, which casts, mutual obligations on
both the training establishment and the Apprentic. At the time of registration an apprentice should deposit a sum of Rs. 5000,
refundable at the completion of the course (This is not applicable for Samurdhi beneficiaries.) Those who will be leaving the
programme during  course duration, the deposit will not be refunded.
6.2 In the event of industrial training the apprentices are required to enter in to a contract with the training establishment.
6.3 There is no guarantee of employment at the end of the training period.
6.4 All the students registered for the above courses should maintain a minimum requirement of 80% attendance during the course
period. Those who fail to obtain this requirement are not allowed to sit for the examinations and they have to leave the present
batch and continue with the subsequent batch.
7 Award of Certificates :
National Diploma in Engineering Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of the course.
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry qualifications as stated in para 1 within the age limit mentioned in para 2 above
would be eligible. Selections will be done as given below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible as per 8.1 will be required to sit for a written apitude test in English medium. (Eligible
candidates will be informed in advance)
8.3 An interview will be held to select the candidates for different fields/specializations (as mentioned in 4.0) based on preferences
in respect of fields/specializations and order of merit at the atitude test.
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course will have to apper for a medical test at their own expense prior to
registration.
9. Applications :
9.1 Applications and additional information can be obtained from NDES web site (www. ndes.lk)
9.2 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar, Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake on
payment of Rs. 50 in cash, or by post by sending a money order for Rs. 50 with a self - addressed stamped envelope size
9" x 4" to Registrar, Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake (011- 2252833 ; 011-2252834) up to 20th
June 2006.
9.3 Application forms could be obtained from NAITA head office, national institutes and provincial Offices too up to 20th June
2006 on payment of Rs. 50 in cash.
(i)  National Apprentice and Industrial Traning Authority, 971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya.
011-2863680 ; 011-2867435
(ii)Apprentice Training Institute, 581, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa.
011- 2647393 ; 011-2641092
(iii)Automobile Engineering Training Institute 07, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha, Orugodawatta, Wellampitiya.
 011-2572977 ; 011-2532182

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
487
(iv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, Uva Province, 288, Kumarasinghe Mawatha, Passara Road,
Badulla. 055-2222608
(v) National Apprentice and Industrial Traning Authority, Sabaragamuwa Province, New Colombo Road, School Lane,
New Town, Ratnapura.    045-2228667
(vi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, Southern Province, 27A, Open University Road, Nupe, Matara,
041-2226958
(vii)National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, Central Province, No. 108/2B, Thiwanka Bodhi Mawatha,
Mulgampola, Kandy 081-2201918
(viii)National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, North Central Province, Second Stage, 522/2, Maithripala
Senanayake Mawatha, Anuradhapura. 025-2225504
(ix)National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, North Western Province, Near National Youth Services Council,
Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala. 037-2223789
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Traning Authority, Northern Province 07, Kovil Road, Jaffana. 021-2222383
(ix)National Apprentice and Industrial Traning Authority, Eastern Province, 161/A, Yaseen Building, Main Street, Kalmunai
067-2229357
(xii)National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, Western Province, 242, Havelock Road, Colombo 05.
 011-2597671 -2 ; 011-2587258
9.4 The applicant who obtained the application form from the said institutions, should pay Rs. 200 as per the details (9.6) to any
branch of people’s Bank and paying slip need to be attached to the application. When forwarding the application.
9.5 The applicant who obtained the application form from the web site should pay Rs. 250 as per the details (9.6)
9.6 The Pay - In - Slip needs to be duly perfected with the following :
(i) Branch Code and Account No. : 0174 - 1010089204
(ii)Credit Instruction : To the credit of National Apprentice and Industrial Traning Authority collection account
No. 0174- 1010089204 at People’s Bank, Nugegoda.
(iii)Name and the Address of the Applicant.
9.7 Duly filled application forms, should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director/Principal, Institute of Engineering
Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake along with the copy of the Pay-In- Slip and the paying voucher signed by the
Authorized Officer of the Bank, on or before 22nd June 2006. Late application or application forwarded by, by hand will not
be accepted.
9.8 Those who have followed or are following Diploma  or Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government Technical
Institution or University are not eligible to apply.
9.9 Originals or copies of certificates should not be sent along with the application.
9.10 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
9.11 Money Orders in respect of para 9.2 above should be drawn in favour of the Accountant, Institute of Engineering Technology,
payable at Katunayake Post Office.
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology (IET) will not consider or be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in the mail.
Threfore, the candidates are requested to post their applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman.
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority,
No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
05-16

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
488
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION – HIGHER EDUCATION  DIVISION
Japanese (Mobukagakusho) Undergraduate Scholarships – 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible Sri Lankan students for the award of Undergraduate Scholarships offered by the Government of
japan for the academic year commencing in 2007.
General eligibility requirements :
Every Candidate –
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Age : should between 17-22 years of age as at 01.04.2007.
(c) Applicants should have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) examination conducted by the Department of Examination, Sri Lanka with
relevant subjects related to the fields applicant intends to apply.
(d) Applicants should possess a proficiency in English.
(e) Applicants should be in good health.
(f) Applicants should not be employees of any Government or State Sector institution.
(g) Applicants should not be students already selected or following a course of study at any university in Sri Lanka or abroad.
(h) Applicants who have registered to follow a course of in a local university at the time of calling for interview, will not be
considered for nominations.
Note : Knowledge in Japanese Language is not a requirement except for those who wish to follow the Japanese Language Course.
01. Japan (Mobukagakusho) – Undergraduate
1.1 Field of Study
(a) Social Sciences & Humanities : Law, Politics, Pedagogy, Economics, Business Administration, Education, Sociology,
Literature, History, Japanese Language.
(b) Natural Sciences A – Science (Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry) Electric & Electronic Studies, Mechanical Studies, Civil
Engineering and Architecture, Chemistry etc.
Natural Sciences B – Agricultural Studies
Natural Sciences C – Medicine
Applicants should be prepared to follow the course in Japanese Language. Knowledge of Japanese Language will be
provided during the first year.
1.2 Selection
Selection of candidates will be done on the results of the competitive examination, which is conducted by the Japanese
Embassy in Sri Lanka. This examination will be held in July/August, 2006. 20 Candidates will be nominated through an
interview by the Ministry of Education, after short listing of applications on the basis of merit according to the results of the
G. C. E. (A/L) Examination, to sit for the competitive examination.
1.3 Subjects for the Test
(a) Applicants who apply for Social Sciences and Humanities should sit for four subjects. Viz. Mathematics, English, World
history, Japanese Language.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
489
(b) Applicants who apply for Natural Science A, B & C should sit for five subjects. Viz. Mathematics, English, Japanese
Language and two subjects chosen from among Physics, Chemistry & Biology.
Choosing of two subjects out of Physics, Chemistry & Biology should be as follows :
Natural Sciences A – Physics, Chemistry
Natural Sciences B & C – Chemistry, Biology
Note : The Mathematics paper is equivalent to the G. C. E. Advance Level Combined Maths Paper.
1.2 Benefits
(a) Air travel to Japan and back
(b) A monthly stipend
(c) An arrival allowance
(d) Exemption from fees for the entrance examination, tuition fees etc.
(e) Accommodation facilities
(a) to (e) will be covered by the Government of Japan. Student would have to be borne approximately US $ 1,500 to cover
immediate needs after arriaval in Japan.
02. Japan (Monbukagakusho) – College of Technology
2.1 Field of Study
Category I  - Mechanical Engineering
Category II  - Electrical & Electronics Engineering
Category III  - Information, Communication & Network Engineering
Category IV  - Materials Engineering
Category V - Architecture & Civil Engineering
Category VI - Maritime Engineering
Applicants should be prepared to follow the course in Japanese Language. Knowledge of Japanese Language will be provided
during the first year.
2.3 Selections :
The applicants will be short listed for an interview held by Ministry of Education on merit basis at the G. C. E. Advance Level
Examination and only 35 candidates will be nominated by the interview, to appear for a written test in two subjects in
Mathematics and Physics or Chemistry conducted in July/August, 2006 by the Japanese Embassy in Colombo.
Note : The Mathematics paper is equivalent to the G. C. E. Advance Level Combined Maths Paper.
2.4 Benefits :
(a) Air travel to Japan and back.
(b) A monthly stipend.
(c) An arrival allowance.
(d) Exemption from fees for the entrance examination, tuition fees etc.
(e) Accommodation facilities.
(a) to (e) will be covered by the Government of Japan. Student would have to be borne approximately US $ 1,500 to cover
immediate needs after arrival in Japan.
3.  Applications :
(a) Every application should conform to the specimen given here in A4 size papers only.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
490
(b) In the application your choice of subjects should indicate in descending order.
(c) G. C. E. (A/L) results should be indicated in the application according to the number of attempts made, separately. Candidates
are required to indicate Z Score gained by them at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination and the grading obtained for each subject.
Applicants, who have done their A/Ls at 2005, Should mention the Rescrutinized Z Score.
(d) A stamp or stamps, value to Rs. 10/- Should be affixed in the cage provided for this purpose in the application and cancelled
by the applicant’s signature.
(e) Closing date :
Applications for the scholarships will be accepted only up to 31.05.2006.
(f) The conditions laid down in this Gazette notification are subject to variations in terms of criteria imposed by the awarding
country without prior notice.
(g) Selected candidates, who declined to accept the award after nomination, will not be considered for any other subsequent
placement.
(h) Applicants Should state name of the scholarship on the top left-hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
eg. : Japanese (Monbukagakusho) Scholarships 2007  Undergraduate
Japanese (Monbukagakusho) Scholarships 2007 – College of Technology
(j) Applications Should be sent to the following address only by registered post to reach before the closing date.
Secretary,
Ministry of Education,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Higher Education Division,
No. 18, Ward Place,
Colombo – 07.
Cage for Stamp
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION – HIGHER EDUCATION DIVISION
Application form for Japanese (Monbukagakusho) Scholarships — 2007
01. Name in full : Rev./Mr./Miss : ——.
(in block capitals) : ——.
Name with initials : ——.
02. Address : ——.
Telephone No. : ——. District : ——.
(Essential) NIC No. : ——.
03. Date of Birth :
Year : ——, Month : ——, Date : ——.
04. Exact Age as at 01.04.2007 :
Years : ——, Months : ——, Days : ——.
Name of the Scholarship
...........................................
(Please indicate the name of the Schol ;
as ‘UG’ or ‘COT’)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
491
05. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ? : ——.
06. Whether Married/Single? : ——.
07. Place of Birth : ——.
08.  Desired Course/ Courses/ Field of Study : ——.
09. Particulars of scholarship award received by members of the family of the applicant if any :
Nature  Country Date of award Relationship of the Scholar
to the applicant
10. Academic Qualifications :
Name of Year & School/College Index No. Subjects Grade Pass
Examination Month
G. C. E. (O/L) 1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
G. C. E. (A/L) 1.
2.
3.
4.
Z Score obtained :
11. Highest Examination passed in English :
12. Have you already selected/Registered or following a course of study in any University in Sri Lanka? if ‘Yes’, please give details.
I hereby certify that particulars furnished by me in this application are true & accurate and that I have not suppressed any
essential information. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification
if the inaccuracy is discovered before selection and to withdrawal of award if discovered after selection.
...................,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——.
05-25

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
492
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan for Postgraduate Studies in New Zealand in 2007
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible persons for the award of Postgraduate Scholarships offered under the Commonwealth Scholarships
and Fellowships Plan tenable in New Zealand for the academic year commencing from February, 2007.
Number of Scholarships to be awarded is 04.
02. These scholarships will provide apportunities to Sri Lankan students to pursue advanced courses of study and to undertake
research. These scholarships are intended for persons of good intellectual promise who may be expected to make a significant contribution
to the country on their return upon successful completion of studies/research.
03. Field of study :
There is no restriction as to the field of study. But the priority will be given to following sectors :
* Sustainable rural livelihoods (inculding livestock, forestry and fisheries and horticulture)
* Education (including early childhood education, bilingual education, education management)
* Primary health
* Governance (Including public administration, public sector management)
* Trade and Development
* Conflict  prevention and reconstruction
* Environmental studies
* Biosecurity, quarantine, sanitary and phytosanitary standards, plant and animal health)
* Food safety, food quality and food technology
* Tourism management, eco-tourism
* Agribusiness development (Income generation, market chain interventions, production processes and rural services)
04. Termination :
Any scholarship may, at the discretion of the appropriate authority, be terminated at any time owing to misconduct, irregularity
of attendance, absence from class or hostel without prior approval of the authorities concerned, unsatisfactory progress in studies or failure
at examinations of the holder of such scholarship. When any scholarship has been terminated, the scholar may be required to return to Sri
Lanka at his/her own expenses.
05. Terms of award :
Each scholarship will carry the following benefits :
(a) Student concessionary or other approved air fares to New Zealand and back on completion of studies. The cost of journeys
made before receipt of award will not normally be reimbursed nor can fares be paid for scholar’s dependents;
(b) a personal maintenance, allowance ;
(c) approved tuition and examination fees ;
(d) a grant for books and apparatus where applicable and
(e)  a grant for expense of approved study travel within the country of award.
06. General eligibility requirements :
(a) All candidates should be citizens of Sri Lanka
(b) Age : Should be less than 45 years on 21.05.2006
(c) Should possess Special Degree with Second Class (Upper Division) in the relevant field of study, from a recognized
university.
(d) Should possess high proficiency in English. To prove this, the candidate must have sat either IELTS or TOEFL examination

<!-- page 17 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
493
and obtained high marks.  Test results must be not more than 24 months old at the time the applicant would commence
study.
(e) Should be employed in a Ministry/Department, a University or in a State Sector Institution (Note (2) and (3)below.)
(f) Applicants cannot :
* Concurrently hold another scholarship ;
* be studying full - time at post - secondary level ;
* have completed a qualification in a similar field of study at the same level of study or another qualification at the same
level, that is, there can be no duplication of qualifications. The proposed level of study should be at a higher level than
qualifications already received ; and
* have been terminated from a New Zealand or Australian Government scholarship previously.
Notes :
(1) The requirements at 6(c) above should also have to be satisfied by candidates possessing Postgraduate qualifications.
(2) No application will be entertained from a person holdings temporary or casual or contractual appointment or from a person
who is unemployed.
(3) An employee on probation may apply provided that his/her confirmation is conditional upon acquiring a specified
Postgraduate qualification. In such a case a statement to that effect should be included in cage 15 of the application.
07. Applications :
(a) Every application should conform to specimen form given  here.
(b) The words “Commonwealth Postgraduate Scholarships - New Zealand” - 2007 should be clearly hand or type-written on the
top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
(c) Each applicant should submit only one application per course of study.
(d) A non -refundable stamp fee of Rs.10 is payable in respect of each application. A stamp or stamps to this value should be
affixed in the cage provided for this purpose in the application and cancelled by the applicant’s signature.
(e) No application from the employees will be entertained unless channeled through the Head of the Institution concerned. They
should, in forwarding the application, appropriately complete the certificate in cage 15 of the application.
(f) No application will be entertained from persons who have entered into an agreement or bond to serve the Republic of Sri Lanka
or State Sector Institution for a specified period unless they shall have completed the bond by 21.05.2006 the full period
specified in such agreement or bond and shall have discharged fully all the other obligations under such agreement or bond.
(g) Any statement in the application, which is found to be incorrect, will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the
inaccuracy is discovered before selection and to the withdrawal of the award; if discovered after selection.
(h) Closing date :
Applications will be accepted only up to 4.00 p. m. on 21.05.2006.
(i) Applications should be sent to the following address by registered post to reach before the closing date.
Secretary,
Ministry of Education,
Higher Education Division,
18, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.
(j) Any application, which has not been sent through the proper channel, which is incomplete in any respect, and which has been
received late, will be rejected.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
494
08. Interview :
Every eligible candidate will be required to present himself/herself at an interview to be held in Colombo at an appointed time and
place. He/She should produce at the interview original certificates of qualifications, certificate of birth, National Identity Card, any other
documentary evidence in support of his/her candidature. No travelling or other expenses incurred in connection with this interview will be
reimbursed.
Important : No need for nominees to obtain Education Credential Evaluation (ECE) certificate
09. Medical examination :
Selected candidates will be required to pass a medical examination conducted by a special Medical Board appointed by the
Immigration Service of New Zealand, as to their physical and mental fitness to undertake a course of studies in the awarding country.
10. Nomination for scholarship :
No candidate should treat his/her nomination for a scholarship as he/she is being accepted for an award. Acceptance is a matter
entirely within the discretion of the awarding agency.
Selected candidates who decline to be nominated or decline to accept awards after nomination will not be considered for any other
award in future.
11. Leave :
The grant of leave to Public Officers to accept awards will be governed by the provisions  of the Establishment Code, and
Department Rules and Regulations in force at the time when applications for leave is made.
12. Agreement :
Every selected candidate should, before his/her departure on scholarship, enter into an agreement with the Republic of Sri Lanka
undertaking among other things:
(a) to pursue faithfully and diligently and to successfully complete the prescribed course of studies ;
(b) to serve the Republic of Sri Lanka if so required for a specified period (to be determined by the Republic of Sri Lanka) after
completion of the course of studies;
(c) to repay the Republic of Sri Lanka the full cost of the scholarship (i. e. all expenses incurred by the Republic of Sri Lanka
and the awarding agency in connection with the entire scholarship including in case of a Public Officer, salary allowances,
fees etc. in the event of his/her failure to comply with the terms and conditions of agreement.
Any form of canvassing or attempting to influence the selection of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
Secretary,
Ministry of Education,
(Higher Education Division)
18, Ward Place,
Colombo 07.
Cage for affixing
stamp in the value
of Rs. 10
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
(Form of Application)
COMMONWEALTH POSTGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPS
TENABLE IN NEW ZEALAND - 2007
1. (a) Name with the initials (Mr/Mrs/Miss) :————
(in block letters)
(b) Names denoted by initials :————
2. Address :————
Telephone No :————
No...................................
(for office use only)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
495
3. Date of Birth :
Year :................................ Month:................................ Date :................................
Exact age on 21.05.2006
Years :................................ Months:................................ Days :................................
4. Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka?
5. Whether married/single/widowed:
6. Academic/Professional/Technical qualifications :
Name of Examination Year and Month Institution Subjects Grade or pass
Certification
7. Present employment :
Name of the Institution Department Designation Date of the 1st appointment
8. If you are in Government/Corporation service :
(a) Is your appointment Permanent or Temporary?.............................................
(b) If permanent, have you been confirmed in the appointment ? ............................................
(c) No. and date of letter of confirmation and the authority who issued it :............................................
9. (a) Desired course of field of study : ............................................
(b) Whether Master Degree or Ph. D : ............................................
10. Particulars of any bonds and/or agreements entered into with the Republic of Sri Lanka or with any Government aided or sponsored
institution, with date of discharge of obligations under them :
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
11. If you have been abroad earlier on a scholarship, study tour, training and ect. state full particulars : ...................................................
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
12. Highest examination passed in English :................................................................................................................................................
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
13. Evidence of research and publications if any :......................................................................................................................................
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
14. Any other particulars :..........................................................................................................................................................................
..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate, and that I have not suppressed any
essential information. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification
if the inaccuracy is discovered before selection and withdrawal of the award if discovered after selection.
..................................,
Signature of applicant.
Date : .............................

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
496
15. (When the applicant is an employee of state institution aided by Government funds);
Certificate of the Head of the Institution.
(i)  I certify that the –
(a) training provided under this scholarship is essential/not essential for this institution.
(b) details declared by the applicant in cages 7, 8, and 10 of the application were verified by me with the personal record of the
officer and are correct*/ should be as corrected.
(c) The applicant is confimed in the appointment/* will be confirmed in the appointment on ....................................................
(d) the applicant will*/Will not be released to take up this scholarship if selected.
(e) the applicant will*/will not be granted leave on full pay/* on no pay.
(ii)  Full name of the applicant :...........................................................................................................................................................
(iii)  Any other special reasons :...........................................................................................................................................................
Name of the Instituion : ..........................................................
................................,
Signature of Head of the Institution
with the official frank.
(This certificate should be signed personally by the Head of the Institution)
*Delete words inapplicable.
05-88
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS II GRADE II OF
 THE SRI LANKA PLANNING SERVICE - 2006
IT is hereby notified that the first Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service will be held
in Colombo in August 2006  by the Commissioner General of Examinations and that the closing date for applications will be 05th June 2006.
02. Scheme of Examination :
This Efficiency Bar Examination will comprise the following subjects :
(i) Planning Concepts and Methodology, Planning Institutions and Finance and Administration
Duration Marks
3 Hours 100
(ii)Economic Analysis and Statistics do.
(iii)Project Planning do.
(iv)English Language do.
Note.-
(a) An officer may sit all subjects in one attempt or several attempts
(b) A candidate should obtain 40% or above, of the marks in each paper for a pass

<!-- page 21 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
497
03. Subjects
(i)Planning Concepts and Methodology, Planning Institutions and Administration
PART  I
(a) Planning goals and priorities as well as policy frame work and programmes for their achievement.
(b) Methodology for national planning, major problem areas in planning, public participation, mobilization of resources and
their allocation role of NGO’s
(c) Nature and sources of data for national planning, their collection, processing, presentation and analysis, field surveys and
investigations, demographic concepts, economic perspectives and policy analysis.
PART  II
(a) Government Financial Regulations, Part I (Excluding Chapter X)
(b) Current year estimates e. g. their presentation under Heads and Programmes, financial sistemes and Appropriation Acts
and Supplimentary Estimates
(c) Office and field organization and systems
(d) Chapters I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XII, XV , XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII,
XXXIII, XLVII, XLVIII of the Establishment Code
(ii)Economic Analysis and Statistics
(a) Principles of economics with particular emphasis on theories of production and distribution ;
(b) Monetary and banking systems, international finance and trade ;
(c) Analysis of fiscal, monetary, trade and tariff policies and other policies ;
(d) Economic structure of Sri Lanka ;
(e) Review of the economy ;
(f) Assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower and other resources including foreign aid and assistance and their
utilization ;
(g) Economic, scientific and social forecasting ;
(h) Basic statistical concept and techniques used in economic analysis and planning ;
(i) Elements of benefit/cost analysis ;
(j) Elements of benefit/cost analysis.
(iii)Project Planning :
(a) Planning.— identification and definition of projects and principles of projects formulation ; criteria and choice of location
and techniques ; estimation of cost and benefits ; technical, financial and economic analysis ;
(b) Implementation of projects.— Proper and timely implementation of projects and programmes ; preparation of detailed
work plans and implementation schedules ; monitoring and progress control and charts. Co-ordination and follow up.
(iv)English Language. - This question paper is meant to test the knowledge of English required for an officer of the Sri Lanka
Planning Service to carry out his duties.
04. A specimen of form of application for this examination is given at the end of this notification. Candidates are requested to prepare
their own application forms strictly in accordance with the specimen form. The application form should be prepared on an A-4 size
paper, not on paper of any other size. The form may be prepared on  both sides of the paper but should be filled in by the candidate’s
own handwriting. From Column one to ten to be in first page and the rest should be in second page.
B 5 – B 079259

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
498
05. Applications should be sent through the Head of Department  (through the Divisional Secretary, if the officer is attached to a
Divisional Secretariat) by registered post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations. Organization of Foreign Examinations
Branch, Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, Battaramulla, Pelawatta not later than 05th June, 2006. The name of the
examination should be marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application addressed to the Commissioner
General of Examinations. Any application received after the closing date or application which are not perfected will be rejected.
Officers who are deemed to be “New Entrants” for the purpose of the Official Language Policy, may prepare their application forms
and fill them up in either the official Language of Tamil/English Language, the medium of their recruitment.
06. The Commissioner General of Examination will issue an Admission Card together with the copy of the Time Table to all candidates
whose applications have been accepted. In the mean time a press notice notifying the date of examination will also be published. If
a candidate does not receive his Admission Card at least 7 days before the day of the examination he should communicate without
delay with Commissioner General of Examinations. Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations of
Sri Lanka, Battaramulla, Pelawatta (Telegraphic Address “Exams Battaramulla”), informing him that he has not received the
Admission Card and giving the following information.
(i) Name of Examinations ;
(ii)Full Name of Applicant ;
(iii)Full Postal Address ;
(iv) The Post Office from which the application was posted, registration number and date.
07.  Identity Cards. - Candidates will be required to prove their identity (in respect of each subject) in the examination hall to the incharge
of the Examination hall satisfaction of the supervisor. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted.
(i) A valid Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations has the power to cancel or reject the candidature of any applicant who is unable
to provide any one of the above mentioned documents.
08. Examination Fees. - Fees will be levied from the candidates who sit this examination  on the following basis :
Examination Fees
Rs. Cts.
(a) No fees will be levied from candidates who sit the examination for the first time —
(b) For each subsequent sitting for the whole examination 115 0
(c) Single subject 75 0
The examination fee should be paid in revenue stamps and duly cancelled with the candidate’s signature.
09. The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Candidates are bound by the rules and regulations
prescribed by him for the conduct of examination. “Rules and Instructions for Candidates” published at the beginning of Part I :
Section (IIA) of this Gazette will apply for this examination too.
10. Head of Departments/Offices are requested to grant duty leave to officers of their Department/Offices who have been issued with
Admission Cards by the Commissioner General of Examination to present themselves at the Examinations.
11. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with at the discretion of the Sri Lanka Planning Service Board.
M. M
ADANAYAKE ,
Secretary,
Sri Lanka Planning Service Board.
Sri Lanka Planning Service Board,
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
20th of April, 2006.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
499
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS II GRADE II OF THE
SRI LANKA PLANNING SERVICE - 2006
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination
Sinhala : 2
Tamil : 3
English : 4
(write the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials :
Mr./Mrs./Miss :—————
(in block capitals)  Ex : Mr./Mrs./Miss SILV A, B. A.
1.2 Name in Full :—————
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No.:
02. Official Address :—————
(in block capitals)
2.1 Official Address :—————
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards to be sent :—————
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Sex :
3.1 Female - 1, Male - 0  (write the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth : Year Month Date
3.3 Age as at the Closing Date of Applications :
Years Months Dates
04. Date of entry to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Planning Service :—————
(The correct date on which the duties were assumed should be stated).
05. Are you an “Old Entrant” or “New Entrant” for the purpose of the official Language policy ? :—————
06. Name of Department (If a Divisional Secretariat. State the Name of Office).:—————
07. Subjects applied for under para. 2 of the Gazette Notification ::—————
(i) …………………………………
(ii)…………………………………
(iii)…………………………………
(iv) …………………………………
08. Are your sitting the examination for the first time ?:—————

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
500
09. If not for the first sitting examination fees paid :
Cage for Stamps - affix stamps to the value of Rs. 115 for the
whole examination. Rs. 75 for a single subject.
And cancel by placing the signature.
10. I hereby certify the stamps affixed to the application were valid and unused before cancellation by me and the particulars furnished
by me are  correct and also that I am entitled to sit the examination in the language medium indicated in above.
………………………………
 Signature of Candidate.
Date : ……………………
Note:  The candidates should sign in the presence of his/her head of Department or an officer authorized to sign on behalf of such Head
of Dept. or his/her Divisional Head.
Attestation
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss…………………………….who is an officer in my office and who is known to me personally placed
his/her signature in my presence this……………………..day of ……………………2006.
Name :………………………………
Designation : :……………………….
Address : :………………………….
……………………………
……………………………
Signature of Attestor.
Certificate of  the Head of Department.
I certify-
(i) that the particulars furnished above have been checked and found to be correct ;
(ii)that the candidate is eligible to sit this examination.
Signature of the Head of Department.
(Official seal should be placed).
Designation : ………………………………
Date : ………………………………
05-97

<!-- page 25 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
501
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.05
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.05.2006
502
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2006
MAY 05.05.2006 Friday — 21.04.2006 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2006 Thursday –– 28.04.2006 Friday 12 noon
19.05.2006 Friday –– 05.05.2006 Friday 12 noon
26.05.2006 Friday –– 11.05.2006 Thursday 12 noon
JUNE 02.06.2006 Friday — 19.05.2006 Friday 12 noon
09.06.2006 Friday –– 26.05.2006 Friday 12 noon
16.06.2006 Friday –– 02.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
23.06.2006 Friday –– 09.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
30.06.2006 Friday –– 16.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
JULY 07.07.2006 Friday — 23.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
14.07.2006 Friday –– 30.06.2006 Friday 12 noon
21.07.2006 Friday –– 07.07.2006 Friday 12 noon
28.07.2006 Friday –– 14.07.2006 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.