

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results  of  Examinations &c. … 2382
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"413 – 2024 fkdjeïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'11'29
No. 2,413 –  fRiday, NoVEmbER, 29, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th december, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th december, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2379 - b 082631 - 5,403 (11/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2380
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2381
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2382
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
LEGAL   DRAfTSmAN ' S  DEPARTmENT
Open competitive examination for the filling of vacancies in the Post of Editor Grade III and 
Documentation Assistant Grade III of the Management Assistant Non Technical Category 2 in the Legal 
Draftsman's Department - 2024
tHE  Gazette notification is published in addition to the notification of calling for applications which was published in the 
Gazette dated 01.04.2022 under the above heading.
 The candidates who submitted the applications for the aforementioned posts in terms of such notification are not 
required to resubmit the applications.
the examination will be held in february 2025 in colombo for the candidates who submitted the applications in 
accordance with the Gazette dated 01.04.2022 and for the candidates who submitted the application in accordance with this 
Gazette. The date of the examination will be notified later.
Applications are called from the eligible Sri Lanka citizens for the competitive examination to select qualified 
personnel to fill the vacancies of the post of Editor Grade III and post of Documentation Assistant Grade III of the Legal 
draftsman's department.
Candidates who have fulfilled the required qualifications will be selected to be appointed to the post of Editor Grade 
iii and documentation assistant Grade iii, according to the results of a written examination held by the Sri Lanka institute 
of development administration, on behalf of the Legal draftsman's department.
01. Conditions of Employment:
1.1 these posts are permanent and pensionable, contributions should be made to the Widows/ Widowers and orphans 
Pension Funds and appointees shall be subject to the policy decisions with respect to the pension scheme, made 
by the Government from time to time.
1.2 Officers appointed to theses posts are subject to a probation period of three (03) years.
1.3 The applicants should acquire proficiency in the prescribed official language/ languages within 03 years from the 
recruitment to the post as per the Public administration circular No. 18/2020.
1.4 This appointment is subject to the procedure rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishment Code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the Government and other departmental 
Regulations.
1.5 the appointment of applicants who fail and/or refuse or avoid to assume the duties of the post on the relevant date 
may be cancelled.
02. Salary Scale : 
this post carries a monthly salary scale of (mN 1-2016) Rs. 29,140-10x300-11x350-10x495-10x660-45,540/- in terms 
of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016.
03. Qualifications/ Experience: 
Every applicant should have fulfilled all the qualifications pertaining to the relevant post on or before the closing date 
of applications.
3.1 Educational Qualifications :
(a) Should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects with credits in at least four (04) subjects 
including mathematics and Sinhala/ t amil/ English language at one sitting,
and
(b) Should have obtained at least a credit pass in Sinhala language or t amil language or English language at the 
G.c.E. (advanced Level) Examination.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2383
NotE  
(i) the applicant should have completed the qualifications for the language subjects relevant to the medium applied, at 
the G.c.E. (o/L) and G.c.E. (a/L).
(ii) In the absence of a sufficient number of applicants who have obtained a credit pass in English language at the G.C.E. 
(a/L) examination, having obtained a credit pass in Sinhala/ tamil language at the G.c.E. (a/L) examination and 
a pass in English or credit pass in General English at the G.C.E.(A/L) will be considered as a qualification.
3.2 Experience:
only the applicants for the Post of documentation assistant should have at least one year experience in a 
Government recognized establishment in computer related work ( eg. Open Office Microsoft-Word-Excel etc.)
Experience is not relevant to the applications for the post of Editor.
3.3 Physical qualifications:
Every applicant should possess sufficient physical and mental suitability or serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to 
perform the duties of the post (selected applications will be subject to a medical investigation).
3.4 Other qualifications:
 (i) applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka
 (ii) applicants should be of unblemished character.
3.5 Age Limit :
Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
04. Written Examination :
4.1 Written Examination : Editor
Question Paper Time Total Marks Pass mark
test the knowledge on 
Sinhala/ t amil/ English 
language and spelling.
1 ½ hours 100 40
4.1.1 Syllabus :
Name of the question Paper Syllabus
test the knowledge on Sinhala/ 
tamil/ English languages and 
spelling
a paper consisting of three questions with two parts 
to evaluate the proof reading skills, specially the 
proof reading skills relating to the publications of this 
department and a question to test the correct Sinhala/ 
tamil/ English spelling.
NotE: marks will be deducted for illegible 
handwriting and spelling mistakes.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2384
4.2 Written examination : Documentation Assistant
Question paper Time Total marks Pass mark
intelligence test
Language Proficiency
one hour
one hour
100
100
40
40
4.2.1. Syllabus :
Name of the question 
paper
Syllabus
intelligence test a question paper to test the general intelligence, logical skill, expression 
of ideas, statistical skill and comprehension skill.
Language proficiency a question paper to test the spelling, grammar, expression of precise and 
clear ideas, knowledge of expressions of the language, summarizing 
and essay writing.
4.3 method of recruitment :
applicants who have obtained the highest marks (equal to the number of vacancies) from the applicants who 
have obtained marks more than 40% for each of the above papers will be interviewed by a panel of interviewers 
appointed by the Legal Draftsman in order to test the qualifications mentioned in the notification and the physical 
qualifications of the applicants. Marks will not be given for the interview.
05. Conditions for the examination :
5.1 an applicant applying for both posts shall submit separate applications.
5.2 the examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English media. an applicant will not be permitted to 
change the medium mentioned in his application later.
5.3  furnishing false information :
 If it is disclosed that an applicant does not possess the required qualifications, his/ her candidature may be cancelled 
at any time before the examination or in the course of the examination or after the examination.
 He/She may be dismissed from the public service if it is revealed that any information provided by a candidate has 
been knowingly providing as false, or if he/she has deliberately surpressed any important fact.
5.4 the examination fee is Rs. 1000/-
 the applicants shall pay a non-refundable examination fee of Rs. 1,000/- at any branch of bank of ceylon to the 
credit of current account No. 7041488 maintained at the " Hulftsdorp branch of bank of ceylon", in favour of 
"Legal Draftsman" and shall have the receipt thereof properly affixed at the relevant place in the application. 
retaining a photocopy thereof will be of use. the name of the applicant and his/her National identity card number 
must be entered in the cash deposit form.
5.5 the applicant shall provide the relevant information in his/her own handwriting. any loss incurred as a result of 
failure to duly fill the applications shall be borne by the applicants. Retaining a photocopy of the application will 
be of use and the applicant shall check whether the application that is filled is consistent with that set out in the 
notice of examination. If not,the application will be rejected without any notice.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2385
NOTE :
An admission card will be sent by post to all the applicants who have been qualified for the exam candidacy by the Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration. No applicant will be allowed to enter the examination hall without an admission 
card and the applicant shall get his signature attested by a qualified person in advance and should produce it to the supervisor 
of the examination hall on the date of the examination.
5.6 the applications shall be prepared using the both sides of a4 paper of size 24x29cm, in accordance with the 
specimen application form herein, and
(a) heading numbers from 1 to 7 should set out to be appeared on the first page;
(b) heading numbers from 8 to 13 should set out to be appeared on the second page; and
(c) heading numbers from 14 to 15 should set out to be appeared on the third page
of the application.
5.7 the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration will issue admission cards to 
applicants falling within the required age limits as stated in the notice and who have paid the relevant examination 
fee on or before the closing date and have submitted duly filled applications along with the relevant receipt. The 
receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. Upon the issue of admission cards, you will be notified to the 
effect by sending and SMS to the mobile number given by you in the application. Inquiries regarding issues 
pertaining to admission cards can be made by calling on 011-5980225 of the examination branch of the Sri Lanka 
institute of development administration. it will be useful to keep the copy of the application, the copy of the 
receipt of the payment of the examination fee and also the registration receipt received in order to substantiate 
any information when making inquiries.
5.8 the Legal draftsman shall have the power to postpone or to cancel the examination. 
5.9 The applicants are subject to the rules stipulated by the Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
administration regarding the holding of the examination.
5.10 The words "Open Competitive Examination for the filling of vacancies in the post of Editor Grade III and 
documentation assistant Grade iii in the Legal draftsman's department - 2024" should be indicated on the top 
left hand corner of the envelop.
5.11 identity of the applicant :
 Every applicant shall prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the 
Examination hall. for such purpose only one of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) the National identity card issued by the department for Registration of Person.
(b) a  valid passport.
5.12 NotE
 (a) No document or copy thereof should be annexed to the application.
 (b)  applications of applicants who fail to submit the originals of the relevant documents when requested will 
not be taken into consideration.
06. Duly filled applications must be sent by registered post to reach "Legal Draftsman, Legal Draftsman's Department,  
No. 80, adhikarana mawatha, colombo 12" on or before 30
th  of december 2024.
07.  Issuance of result :
7.1 Sri Lanka Institute of Development administration will submit the final result sheet prepared in accordance with 
the total merit score of the written examination to the Legal draftsman.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2386
7.2 Upon the notification by the Legal Draftsman that the appointments related to the posts are final, the results 
will be notified by post to all the candidates by the Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
administration,
08. The number of persons appointed and date on which the appointment comes into effect will be determined by the Legal 
draftsman. The final decision with respect to filling, not filling or partly filling the vacancies shall be vested with the 
Legal draftsman.
09. in the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy among the Sinhala, tamil, and English texts of this Gazette Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
10. Decision regarding any matter not stated in this notification will be made by the Legal Draftsman.
 Dilrukshi Samaraweera,
 Legal draftsman, 
 Legal draftsman's department,
 No. 80, adhikarana mawatha,
 colombo 12.
Specimen application
oPEN  comPEtitiVE   ExamiNatioN   foR  fiLLiNG   of  V acaNciES   iN  tHE  PoStS   of  EditoR  
GRadE   iii  aNd  docUmENtatioN   aSSiStaNt  GRadE   iii  of  tHE   maNaGEmENt  aSSiStaNt 
NoN  tEcHNicaL   catEGoRy  2  iN   tHE  LEGaL   dRaftSmaN ' S  dEPaRtmENt  -  2024
In application filled in either Sinhala or Tamil language, the name of the examination appearing in the heading of the 
specimen application must also be included in English language in addition to Sinhala or tamil respectively.
01. the post applied 
 Sinhala Editor - 1 Sinhala documentation assistant - 4
 t amil Editor    - 2 tamil documentation assistant    - 5
 English Editor - 3 English documentation assistant - 6
 (write the relevant number in the box)
02. the language medium in which the applicant intends to sit the examination 
 Sinhala - 1 t amil - 2 English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the box)
03. Last name with the initials as at the end:
i. in the English capital letters : 
 (eg. GUNa W aRdHaNa, m.G.b.S.K.)
ii. in Sinhala/ tamil :
04. Name denoted by initials 
i. in English capital letters:
ii. in Sinhala/ tamil :
05. Permanent address
i. in English capital letters :
ii. in Sinhala/ tamil :
06. address to which the admission card should be sent :
 (in English capital letters)

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2387
07. Gender : 
 male : 0       female : 1
 (Write the relevant number in the box)
08. mobile phone number : …………………………………………….
09. National identity card No. :
10. are you a citizen of Sri Lanka :
 y es - 1  No - 2
 (Write the relevant number in the box)
11. date of birth : y ears : ……………………. months : …………………… days :……………………
12. age as at ………………. y ears : ……………….. months :……………… days:………………………..
13. Educational Qualifications :
i. G.c.E. (o.L) 
(i) y ear : ………………………
(ii) index Number : ………………………..
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
ii. G.c.E. (a/L) 
(i) year : ………………………………
(ii) index Number : ………………………….
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 3.
2. 4.
III. Mention any other relevant educational/ professional qualifications :-……………….
iV . Professional experience : ………………………………
14. i. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law?
   y es   No
if yes, State the particulars ………………………………….
ii. Examination fee :
Receipt No. :
date of Payment :
bank and branch where the payment was made :

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2388
firmly Paste the receipt here
15. applicant's declaration :
(a) I respectfully declare/ affirm that the foregoing particulars are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
(b) i am aware that i am liable to be found ineligible where it is proved before being appointed, that this 
declaration made by me is false or incorrect or to be dismissed from service without any compensation, 
subject to the relevant procedure, where it is proved after being appointed that this declaration made by me 
is false or incorrect. furthermore, i declare that i am bound by the rules stipulated by the director General 
of Sri Lanka institute of development administration regarding the holding of the examination and that i 
have paid the examination fee and have affixed the receipt here.
 ……………………………. …………………………………………
 date  Signature of the applicant
16. attestation of the applicant's signature :
i do hereby certify that mr./mrs./ms. ……………………………………. (full name) who submits this application 
is personally known to me, that he/she placed his/her signature before me on date of ………….., 2024, and that the 
required examination fee has been paid and that the receipt thereof has been affixed.
 ……………………………………………
 Signature of the attester.
full name of the attester :
designation :
address :
date :
(Affix the official seal)
17. attestation of the Head of the department:
i do hereby certify that i have examined the aforesaid particulars furnished by the applicant, that they are correct 
and that his/her performance, attendance and conduct are satisfactory. if the applicant is selected for this post,  
he/she may be released from service/ may not be released from service.
 …………………………………………………
 Signature of the Head of the department.
designation :
date :
(Affix the official seal)
11-377

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2389
amENdmENt
mINISTR y Of hEALTh
"Recruitment (Open) to the Post of Orthopaedic Workshop Technician belonging to the Supervisory 
Management Assistant Non-Technical/ Technical Service Category (MN-03-2006-A) of the Sri Lanka 
Technological Service of Ministry of Health - 2024"
cLoSiNG  date of applications mentioned in the above notification of recruitment published in the Government Gazette  
No. 2375 dated 07th march 2024 shall be revised as following.
1. closing date of applications is extended up to 10.12.2024 and all the facts stated in the aforesaid Gazette Notification 
shall prevail without any change.
 Dr. P. G. Mahipala,
 Secretary, 
 ministry of Health.
16th November, 2024,
ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10.
11-300
ThE  PARLIAmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the 
Post of Parliamentary Officer in Parliament of Sri Lanka - 2024
01. It is hereby announced that the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the post of Parliamentary Officer in 
Parliament of Sri Lanka will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations on, march 2025 in colombo.
(a) the closing date for applications is 30th December, 2024
(b) the details on this advertisement are also available on the website www.parliament.lk  
02. as per the aggregate marks obtained at the written test conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations and 
the structured interview, the selection for 20 vacant posts will be made on the merit order among the candidates who 
scored highest marks. 
 the general duties of the post are to assist the management in the duties of the administrative, Legislative Services 
and finance & Supplies departments of Parliament and perform any other duties assigned by the Secretary General of 
Parliament.   
03. monthly Salary Scale: - the salary scale entitled to this post is Rs. 34,605-9x660/3x755-42,810/- as per Schedule i 
of the management Services circular No. 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016. the salaries will be paid in compliance with the 
provisions of the said circular as indicated in Schedule ii thereto. (the minimum gross initial monthly salary applicable 
to this post will be approximately Rs. 90,000/- inclusive of all additional allowances). 
04. Qualifications for Recruitment
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should not be less than 21 and not more than 35 years of age as at closing date of the applications. accordingly, 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2390
only those whose birthdays fall on or before 30th december 2003 or on or after 30th december 1989 can 
apply for this post.
 (the upper age limit is not applicable to the applicants in the Public/ Provincial Public service or Government 
corporations/Statutory boards ) 
(c) all the applicants should be of excellent and moral character.
(d) Should have completed the following educational qualifications.  
(i). a  degree awarded by a university recognized by the University Grants commission.
and
(ii). Having passed 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination with credit passes for Sinhala or Tamil,  
English or English Literature and mathematics, in not more than two sittings.
N.B: Having completed the qualifications relevant to the post on or before 30th December 2024 is compulsory 
for each applicant. if any candidates with special needs appear, they should mentioned in the application 
about it and to submit the copies of relevant medical certificates.
05.  method of recruitment:-
through a written test and a structured interview.  
06.  Examination Procedure:- 
(a) Written Test 
 This test will contain two question papers to assess the proficiency in English Language, Translation skills, 
General Knowledge and iQ and both question papers will be in English medium. However, since the question 
paper on language proficiency contains a paragraph for translation, the candidates should make sure that they 
indicate in their applications the medium in which they expect to sit the test. 
Subject marks Duration minimum pass mark
Language Proficiency and 
translation skills 
100 2 hours 50%
General knowledge and iQ 100 2 hours 50%
(1) Language proficiency - this question paper contains the questions on comprehension, an essay, 
summarizing, translation from Sinhala/t amil into English and English into Sinhala/t amil which are 
designed to asses English language proficiency of the candidates. All questions should be answered.  
(2) General knowledge and IQ - each question paper is 1 hour duration and contains two parts and  
questions that test the knowledge of the candidates on local and foreign affairs and the general 
understanding on the constitution, independent commissions, Parliament ary practices and 
procedures, administration of Justice and Principles of Good governance. all questions should be 
answered. 
(b)    Structured interview:-
a Structured interview will be conducted by an interview panel appointed by the Secretary General of Parliament 
to assess and examine the communication Skills and additional Language Skills, additional Educational 
Qualifications, Computer Literacy, Working Experience and Knowledge in the field, Leadership Qualities and 
competency of the candidates at the interview, in accordance with the criteria given in the table below. the 
maximum marks is hundred (100): -
Serial 
Number 
Scope maximum marks
1 communication Skills and additional Language Skills 20
2 Additional Educational Qualifications 20

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2391
Serial 
Number 
Scope maximum marks
3 computer Literacy 20
4 Working Experience and Knowledge in the field 20
5 Leadership Qualities and competency at the interview 20
Total 100
Note- Special attention should be paid on legible hand writing and orthography of all written answer scripts. 
07.  Terms and Conditions of Employment:- 
(a)  this post is permanent. However, pension entitlement pertaining to this post will be determined according to 
policy decisions taken by the Government in future.  Appointment will be made initially subject to a three-year 
(03) probation period. If a person who has been confirmed in a permanent post in the Public/Provincial Public 
service or an internal candidate of Parliament is selected, he/she will be appointed subject to an acting period 
of one year. 
(b) The number of appointments and the effective date of such appointments shall be determined by the Secretary 
General of Parliament. The Secretary General of Parliament is reserved the right to fill all/certain vacancies or 
not.
(c) The selected candidates will be required to enhance computer literacy within the first year of the probation/
acting period and should acquire the skills to draft an English letter of not less than 250 words and a Sinhalese/
t amil letter of not less than 150 words within 25 minutes for each by using the microsoft Word Package.
(d) The selected candidates will be subject to the Financial and Departmental Regulations applicable to the staff  
of the Secretary General of Parliament.
(e) the selected candidates should contribute to the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension 
fund from his/her salary with a percentage determined by the Government.
  
(f) The selected candidates will be subject to a medical examination.
(g) Security  clearance Reports in respect of the selected candidates will be obtained prior to theirs appointments.
   
(h) the applicants in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Government corporations/Statutory boards 
shall forward their applications through the respective Heads of departments/institutions.
08.  Penalty for submission of false information
 The applications shall be filled carefully with accurate information. The candidacy of any applicant will be cancelled 
at the examination or prior or subsequent to the examination or at any moment if any applicant is found disqualified as 
per the rules and regulations of the examination.    
09.  Examination fees
 The examination fee is Rs.600/- This fee shall only be credited from any Post Office/Sub Post Office of the Island or 
district Secretariat/divisional Secretariate to the government revenue under the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt obtained in the name of the applicant shall be securely pasted 
on the space provided on the application form so that only one margin sticks on it (it is advised to retain a copy of the 
receipt for future reference.) the examination fees are not refundable and non-transferable under any circumstances. 
further, money orders and stamps shall not be accepted.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2392
10.  method of Application 
(a). the application should be prepared in accordance with the specimen given in this notice by using both sides of 
two a4 papers (8 1/2" x 12"). the application should be prepared in the paper where items 01-03, 04-06 and 07-
10 appear in first, second, third and fourth pages respectively. The title of the examination should be indicated on 
the application in English Language in addition to Sinhala/t amil languages.
 The applications inconsistent with the specimen, not duly filled and examination fees not paid prior to the date 
specified shall be rejected without any notice. The applicant shall bear any losses incurred due to any application 
that is not filled duly and accurately. Keeping a photocopy of the application will be useful and the applicants 
shall ensure that the completed application is consistent with the specimen given in this notification. 
 
(b). all the applicants who have paid the examination fees and applied on or before the closing date, shall be allowed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations to sit for the competitive examination, on the assumption that 
only the applicants who are qualified and eligible as per the Gazette Notification have applied for the post. The 
issuance of an admission card to sit for the competitive examination shall not be considered that the applicant 
has met the qualifications required for the post. The candidacy of the applicants shall be cancelled if found not 
qualified during the interview, where the qualifications are mismatched as per the Gazette Notification.
(c). “Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Parliament Officer of the Parliament of Sri Lanka 
– (2024)” shall be indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
(d). The duly filled applications shall be sent under the registered post to the following address on or before  
30
th  December, 2024. The complaints regarding applications lost in the mail or submitted late will not be accepted.
commissioner General of Examinations
Establishments Examinations  organization branch
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka
Po box 1503
colombo.
11.  Sitting for the examination
(a).  Receipt of the application shall not be acknowledged. a  notice shall be published in the department’s web site and 
the applicant will be informed via SMS by the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, once the admissions are 
issued to the applicants. in case of non-receipt of the admission after a lapse of 2 or 3 days from the newspaper 
notice to the effect, it should be informed to the Department of Examinations, as per the notice. The title of the 
examination, full name of the candidate, National identity card number and the address should be communicated 
during such inquiry. for the applicants residing out of colombo, it would be advantageous to make such inquiry 
by sending a fax to the fax number given in the advertisement, in the form of a request including the relevant 
details and a fax number to reach the applicant so that a copy of the admission can be sent through a fax. further, 
retaining copies of the application, receipt of payment of examination fees, and the receipt for Registered Post, 
would be advantageous for the applicant to confirm any detail required by the Department of Examinations.
(b).  the applicants shall be required to get their signatures attested in the application and the admission card. this 
attestation should done by the respective Heads of the Departments or any other officer authorized by him in 
case of applicants who apply through a government institution and by a Principal of a school/ Retired  officer, 
Grama Niladhari of the d ivision, Justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, 
a chief  incumbent of a buddhist temple or a member of clergy  in charge of any other religious institution in 
case of applicants who do not apply through the institution. the applicants shall sit for the examination in the 
center specified for them and produce to the chief invigilator the admission card with attested signature at the 
examination center at the first instance. The applicants who fail to produce the admission card shall not be allowed 
to sit the examination.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2393
 (c)  Examination Results
 The list of results, arranged in sequential order by index number, will be prepared with twice the number of 
vacancies based on merit, according to the aggregate marks obtained by candidates in the written exam held as 
per paragraph 06 of this notice and the structured interview. after submission of the final results to the Secretary 
General of Parliament, the department of Examinations will inform the results to all the applicants individually 
who sat for the written examination or to publish such results in its website www.results.exams.gov.lk. 
12.  All candidates who sit every subject at the examination should surrender one of the following documents which prove 
their identity, to the chief invigilator.
(i)  National identity card
(ii)  a  valid Passport
(iii)  a  valid Sri Lanka driving License
 
candidates are kindly advised to appear at the examination not covering their face and ears while entering in to and 
during the time of exam. in case, if any candidates refuse to do so, such candidates will not be allowed to enter in to 
the exam hall.   
13.   Candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations regarding 
the examination and the release of results. in case of any violation of examination rules and regulations, candidates shall 
be liable to be penalized by the commissioner General of Examinations.
14.  The Secretary General of Parliament shall decide on any matters not mentioned in this notification. All the candidates 
are required to abide by the general rules and regulations of examination that have been indicated in this Gazette 
Notification.  
15.  in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English versions of this Gazette Notification the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
 Kushani Rohanadeera,
 Secretary- General of the Parliament. 
Parliament of Sri Lanka, 
Sri Jayawardenapura Kotte, 
26th November, 2024.
Specimen Application form
    For Office Use Only
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of 
Parliamentary Officer – 2024
medium of examination applied for translation Skills paper:
 English/Sinhala  - 2
 English/t amil     -3 
(Write the relevant number in the box)
1.0   
 1.1) full Name :  
  (in block capitals)   
      1.2) full Name :   
  (in Sinhala / tamil)   

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2394
2.0   
 1.1) Permanent address :  
(in block capitals)   
 1.2) Official Address (if any) :  
(in block capitals)  
 1.3) address to which the admission card should be sent :  
(in block capitals)   
3.0   
3.1) Gender   : male – 0    female – 1
(Write the relevant number in the box)
      3.2) National identity card No:  
 3.3) contact Number: 
 3.4) Whatsapp Number:
                      
   3.5) E-mail :……………………………………………………….. 
   
3.6) date of birth :   y ear:                                      month:                        date:  
3.7) Age as at the date on which the qualifications are fulfilled: 
  y ears:                                      months:                        days:
4.0 Educational Qualifications:
 
4.1)  G.C.E. (O/L) Qualifications:
 i. y ear of Examination and month :   
 ii. index No. :  
 iii. Results: 
                     Subject   Grade                    Subject    Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2)  G.C.E. (A/L) Qualifications:
 i. y ear of Examination and month: …………………………………..
 ii. index No:……………………………………………………………
 iii. Results:
 
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2395
4.3) details of the degree:
 i. Effective date of the Degree:……………………………………. 
 ii. index No.: ……………………………………………………….
 iii. Name of the degree: …………………………………………….
 iv. Subjects: ………………………………………………………..
 
5.0 Other Qualifications:  
 
 
6.0 Have you ever been convicted by a court of law? (Put a tick ( ü) in the relevant box)      
  (if yes, give details)
                                
        ……………………………….……………………………….……………………………….…………………………
       ……………………………….……………………………….……………………………….…………………………                                 
7.0 details of the receipt of payment of examination fee:
 i. Paid office  : ……………………………….
 ii. Receipt No. and date :………………………….
 iii. Paid amount : ……………………………….
8.0 Certificate of the Applicant:
a) i declare that the details furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. i 
agree to bear up the loss that would be caused to me in case any part of this application has not been filled in and/or 
has been filled in inaccurately.  
 
b) any information in the application found to be false disclosed before selection will render the applicant liable for 
disqualification, and to dismissal, if discovered after appointment. 
c) i further declare that i will be abide by the rules and regulations that will be imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations in connection with conducting of the examination.
d) i will not change any information later that i have furnished in this application.   
date:………………….. …………………………..
 Signature of the applicant
9.0 Attestation of the signature of applicant 
i certify that mr/mrs/miss ............................................. who submits this application is personally known to me and that 
he/ she placed his/ her signature in my presence on ..............................., and that he/she has paid the due examination 
fees and has pasted the relevant receipt of such payment on this application form. 
date:………………….. …………………………..
                     Signature 
Stick the receipt here so that it will not be detached.
(Keeping a copy of the receipt with you would be useful.)
yes No

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'29
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.11.2024
2396
full name of the attester : ......................................................................................
designation : .........................................................................................
address : ..........................................................................................
(Official stamp)
10.0 Certification of Head of Department / Institution
 (Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Government Corporations/
Statutory boards)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
I recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /Miss ............................... who has been confirmed/not 
confirmed in the post of ....................................................... in this Institution. I certify that his/her work and conduct 
are satisfactory and that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is no intention to make such 
inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot be released from the service if selected for this post. (please cut off irrelevant 
words.)  
 
date: .......................... …………………………....                               
               
 Signature of Head of department/institution 
 (Official Stamp)  
                    
11-379             
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.