

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"073 - 2018 uehs ui 25 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'05'25
No. 2,073 -  FRIday , May  25, 2018
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...
appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 672
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         Page 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
671-
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
aTTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  14th June, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st June,  2018.
 electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81285 - 5,403 (05/2018)
Note.–    Mutual assistance in Criminal Matters (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 18th May, 2018.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05.25
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 25.05.2018
672
PRINTEd  aT  ThE  dEPaRTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LaNka.
Provincial Council Notifications
noRTh  WeSTeRn  PRoVIncIAL  councIL
Notification made under Section 5(1) of Chapter II of Public and Private Cemetery 
Ordinance No. 57 of 1946
By Virtue of powers vested in me under  Paragraph (b) of Sub Section II of Section 02 of Provincial Council (Consequential 
Provisions) act, No. 12 of 1989 to be read with Section 5(1) of Chapter II of Public and Private Cemetery Ordinance No. 57 
of 1946, I, Dassanayaka Gunarathna Basnayaka Mudiyanselage Dharmasiri Dassanayake, Chief Minister and the Minister 
in charge of the Subject of Local Government in the North Western Province, do hereby declare that the cemetery located 
with in the area of authority of Pradeshiya Sabha alawwa in kurunegala district of the North Western Province set out in 
the following Schedule shall be used as a Public Cemetery for burying or cremation of dead bodies.
 
Dassanayaka gunarathna Basnayaka MuDiyanselage 
 DharMasiri Dassanayake,
 Chief Minister in the North Western Province and the Minister of 
 Finance and Planning, Engineering Services, 
 Law and Order, Education,
  Local Government and Local administration, Economic development,  
 Environment affairs, Water Supply  and drainage and tourism.
 North Western Province.
Chief Minister’s Office,
kurunegala.
11th april, 2018.
SChEduLE
(1)  The land called Dawatagolla Kerakoppuwa, in extent of 01 Rood and 39 Perches, situated in Alawwa Town of Grama 
Niladhari division of alawwa South in the divisional Secretariat alawwa of kurunegala district in the North Western 
Province bounded as follows ; on the North - Lot No. 96F.V .P. 463, On the East - the said Lot No. 96 d and 96 d, on 
the South - the said Lot No. 96 d and on the West - Paramaulla.
05-753