

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.07.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1924$44 - 2015 cQ,s ui 23 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'07'23
No. 1924/44  -  THURSDAY   JULY  23,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Re-issued to valid for the Parliamentary General Election 2015
CODE  OF  CONDUCT  FOR  CONTESTING  POLITICAL  PARTIES / INDEPENDENT  GROUPS  AND
CANDIDATES OF  THE  ELECTIONS
THIS Code of Conduct is issued in terms of Section 8(8) of the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981 as amended
by the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 58 of 2009. The Code is applicable to the period commencing from the date of
notice of nomination and to the date of  declaration of the result of the election.
 Before the enactment of laws on recognition of political parties, there were socially accepted  political parties which
date back to 1931. Laws regarding the recognition of political parties have been amended at different times since 1959.
Political parties have a greater responsibility in creating a conducive environment to conduct free and fair elections as rules
and regulations  can do little in making the role of political parties more meanful towards the advancement of the contemporary
society.
In the light of the responsibility mentioned above the Code of Conduct for political parties and candidates was
issued by the Department of Elections for the first time with the Provincial Councils Elections held in 2012. As candidates
outside the political parties are represented through independent groups, this Code is issued to be applicable to independent
groups as well. It should be noted that this Code is applicable to the leaders, secretaries, all those holding leading positions,
candidates, activists and supporters of all political parties contesting at the General Election 2015.
All the elections held since 2012, secretaries of political parties, party representatives and representatives of
observer organizations have agreed with this Code at the Committee for Investigation of Election Complaints since it
correlated codes preferred by them.
It is therefore, informed that all those concerned, are now able to abide by this Code of Conduct.
A. Rule of law
01. Uphold the citizens’ rights and freedom guaranteed by the Constitution and other laws of Sri Lanka
assist and encourage the voter to exercise his· franchise to elect people’s representatives at elections
and vote at referenda freely and without any obstruction.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.07.2015
2A
02. Safeguard the equal rights entitled to contesting candidates of all political parties and independent
groups at all times in the election process.
03. Respect the rights of all political parties and candidates and their right to educate the voter, while
safeguarding the right of those with opposing views to hold their views and their right to carry out
lawful propaganda/promotional activities.
04. Refrain from obstructing or interfering in any form of the government, semi -government, private or
other institutions from carrying out their legitimate activities or responsibilities.
05. Refrain from obstructing or influencing legitimate duties of statutory bodies and personnel entrusted
to maintain law and order in the country.
06. Ensure that election propaganda is carried out without violating the existing laws and without interfering
with the ordinary life of the citizen.
07. Educate all the candidates and activists about the laws (particular sections of the Acts) related to election
and advise them to refrain from offences, corrupt practices and illegal activities.
08. Refrain from touching and removing of the materials, equipment and documents assigned to
be used at the conduct of the poll or counting of votes, without obtaining approval from the
relevant authority.
B. General Conduct
01. Refrain from any activity, expression or behaviour which could aggravate differences, hatred and tension
between different religions, languages, races, customs and castes of the Sri Lankans.
02. Limit criticisms of other political parties, to their policies, programs and their past activities and
refrain from criticizing personal life of candidates or making statements on allegations that are not
proved and unsubstantiated against rivals of own party or rival candidates.
03. Select candidates who can devote themselves to the future well-being of the citizens of Sri Lanka by
fulfilling the objectives of the constitutional bodies to which they are to be elected and conduct them
at the campaign in a disciplined and decent manner.
04. In the selection of candidates, their conduct and good behavior, respect for the law, non-conviction
before courts, dedication to serve the society etc. need to be considered by the leaders of political
parties and independent groups. Avoid persons who use their wealth or social status to the detriment of
the society.
05. Submit the statements of assets and liabilities of candidates at the time of nominations or before the
expiry of 30 days after nominations.
06. Educate the candidates/ agents not to use liquor or intoxicants at polling stations and counting centers
and not to enter such places under the influence of liquor.
07. Adhere to the instruction that only those who are permitted shall enter into the nomination centres or
polling stations or counting centers or results declaration centers as well as their premises and act in
accordance with the directives given not to take weapons to such places.
08. Abstain from engaging in prohibited election related activities and prevent his/her supporters in engaging
in such activities.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.07.2015
3A
C. Election Propaganda Activities
01. Political parties and independent groups to hold propaganda meetings without causing any disruption
to the law and order and to lawful election propaganda activities of rivals and maintain election offices
according to election laws.
02. Follow election laws in printing election material and distributing hand bills, among voters.
I. Refrain from distributing anonymous handbills without information of the printer/ publisher
and from printing of illegal notices, etc.
II. Prevent candidates or the closest relations of the candidate (spouses, children and others of the
family) from door to door canvassing or door to door distribution of handbills and prevent them
from using large crowds, music or displaying posters at the time of door to door distribution of
hand bills.
03. Prevent displaying any election propaganda notices, posters, photographs or paintings with the objective
of promoting the election of a party or an independent group or a candidate or preventing the election
of a rival party or candidate in a state or private building, residence premises or a vacant land belonging
to the government or a private person or in a public place or road to which the public have access. They
are permitted to be exhibited only at the notified offices and within the premises of a rally on the day
of conducting such rally.
04. Refrain from using lands, buildings or any property owned by the State or Semi-State institutions for
election propaganda/promotion, except the assembly halls or play grounds, which are hired under ordinary
circumstances without prejudice to any party/ candidate.
05. Refrain from using places of religious worship or land or premises belonging to any religious
organization for election propaganda/promotion.
06. Display posters or flags related to the election or the name and number of the candidate only in the
vehicle in which the candidate travels.
07. Restrict any decorations or exhibition of propaganda materials to the particular place of propaganda
meeting, and such decorations should not harm the environment. All such decorations should be removed
without delay after the meeting.
08. Refrain from holding processions, public rallies, motorcades and bicycle rallies as   propaganda/promotion
activities during the election period as they are violations of election laws.
09. Use loudspeakers only at the places permitted, restrict the use of loudspeakers to the time allowed and
refrain from using loudspeakers in moving vehicles.
10. Stop all propaganda activities according to the Elections Acts and refrain from holding musical shows,
advertisements in print/electronic media, during the silent period before 48 hours of the date of poll.
11. Refrain from using vehicles, or other State owned property or any powers and privileges available to
Member of Parliament, Provincial Council or of a Local Authority representing a party or independent
group, to promote the election of a party, independent group or a candidate.
12. Refrain from using any security personnel, weapons and other security equipment legally provided to
a people’s representative for protection and refrain from using them for any illegal activity, they should
not be used for any purpose other than his own security.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.07.2015
4A
13. The services of Sri Lanka Rupavahini Corporation or the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation provided,
by election law, to a party or an independent group for election propaganda, should be used according
to the guidelines and conditions imposed by the Commissioner of Elections and the Heads of the
respective Corporations. (Not applicable for Provincial Councils and Local Authorities elections. )
14. Use free postal facility provided by election law to send a publication, by political parties and independent
groups, to every household according to the provisions of the relevant Act and according to the
instructions issued by the Post Master General. (This situation is not applicable for Provincial Councils
and Local Authorities elections. )
15. Refrain from election propaganda activities which will disturb the conduct of public examinations
including the General Certificates of Education (Ordinary and Advanced Level) and Grade 5 Scholarship
Examination at examination centers and at their evaluation centers at schools.
16. Refrain from using a previous statements/ views of a candidate about another party or of a candidate to
promote or demote a party or a candidate, unless it is agreed or approved by the declarant.
D. Poll Day
01. Refrain from engaging in any prohibited activity, especially, canvassing of votes etc., mentioned in the
election law, within a radius 500 meters of a polling station on the poll day.
02. Refrain from obstructing the voters who come to the polling station and voters casting their votes at
the polling station and influencing their vote and from preventing the voters from casting vote freely
and in secret.
03. Refrain from intimidating, causing bodily harm to voters, polling agents, candidates and election
observers and their families or cause damage to their houses or properties, from interrupting voters at
their arrival to, or departure from, the polling station and also from driving away polling agents from
the polling station.
04. Ensure that only those permitted (Secretary of contesting political party, candidates and polling agents)
enter the polling station and they prove their identity. Refrain  from bringing security personnel or
journalists, photographers into the polling station.
05. Refrain from doing or inducing any corrupt practice or offence (stuffing of ballot boxes at the polling
station, raiding polling stations, impersonation or other corrupt practices or offences).
06. Refrain from illegal transport of voters to polling stations.
07. Ensure that polling agents co-operate with the poll staff at the polling station and that the agents do
not create any disturbances at the polling station.
08. Refrain from interfering election observers approved by the Commissioner of Elections in engaging
in observations and provide support to their activities.
09. Refrain from prohibited actions videoing, using mobile phones, etc,. in the premises of the polling
stations.
Please note that these codes are valid for the postal voting day as well.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.07.2015
5A
E. Count of Votes and Preferences (including Postal Votes) and Declaration of Results
01. Make the agents aware of the procedure regarding the count of votes and preferences (including the
count of postal votes) and also the procedure regarding making of complaints.
02. Ensure that the Agents at the Centers for Counting V otes and at Center for Declaration of Results
observe and follow the administrative arrangement at the centre provided by the Commissioner of
Elections and the Returning Officer.
03. Ensure that Government Ministers, Ministers of Provincial Councils, Members of Provincial Councils
and Local Authorities and other politicians are prevented from entering Counting Centers/ halls unless
they are formally appointed as Counting Agents.
04. Prevent politicians appointed as counting agents or declaration centre agents from accompanying
security personnel of any politician, with or without weapons, into the counting halls or the Centre for
Results Declaration and refrain from bringing unauthorized persons to the premises of the counting
halls/ Centre for Results Declaration.
F. Other Special Matters
01. Recognized political parties contesting an election should present to the voters the Statement of Policies
(Manifesto) of their party and the manner in which it would be implemented within a specified period
and submit copies of same to the Commissioner of Elections and through him to the Department of
Archives.
02. Abstain from using State property, official vehicles or offices not to be used for election prapaganda
and refrain from propaganda activities like canvassing, distribution of handbills, exhibition of display
boards or notices in the government offices, schools etc. or within the premises of such institutions.
03. People’s representatives should not engage in election propaganda making use of their official
duties.
04. Refrain from using government owned aircraft or other vehicles without any payment.
05. Ensure that public buildings, play grounds, government circuit bungalows are used after payment of
fees and charges and allow others also to use them in the same manner.
06. During the period of the election, refrain from publishing political newsletters, articles or advertizing
supplements etc., at the expense of the government or government institutions.
07. Refrain from inviting voters or state officers individually or in groups to private or official
residences and entertaining them during the period of the election.
08. Refrain from making promises of financial assistance, laying of foundation stones for projects or
proposals, promising to supply roads, water and electricity services, sudden appointments to posts
outside the approved schemes of recruitment with the aim of attracting votes.
09. Refrain from obstructing investigations carried out by law enforcement authorities, in regard to violation
of election laws, obstructions to inquiries, corrupt practices and election offences.
10. Refrain from making use of the print or electronic media during the period of the election to make
false and unsubstantiated allegations about rival parties and their activists and denying the aggrieved
parties the right to reply.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 15'07'23
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 23.07.2015
6A
11. Respond to criticism or allegations made about parties and politicians by non-aggressive and lawful
means and abstain from using force in retaliation.
12. Refrain from utilizing security personnel provided for personal security unofficially for political
propaganda work and engage them to harm the rivals and condemn such activities openly.
13. Openly condemn any political party or political organization illegally using armed personnel and inform
such instances to relevant authorities in respective security forces.
14. Candidates or leading activists of the political parties shall not participate at State ceremonies
held during the period of election and shall refrain from using such ceremonies for the party/
candidate promotion.
15. Refrain from involving directly or indirectly in politically motivated appointments,
promotions and transfers.
16. Ensure that the political parties and candidates do not gain any political advantage from processions,
carnivals or exhibitions or sports competitions, etc. organized by government or organized with
government’s patronage.
17. Abstain from using educational seminars, conducted for public examinations and the scholarship
examination to promote parties/ candidates.
Other Matters
* National Anthem, National Flag, religious symbols, religious flags, paintings or photographs of founders
of religions or religious leaders shall not be published or broadcast to promote or demote the candidature
of a candidate or parties / groups. In addition, they shall not be exhibited at promotional rallies, meetings
of parties/ groups or candidates or on the notices and display boards. Further, they shall not make use
of photographs or paintings of public Officers, in any manner, to promote parties/ candidates.
* Government owned places which are ordinarily given for propaganda activities of political parties/
independent groups should not be reserved exclusively for propaganda activities of one single party or
a candidate. Equal opportunity should be given to other parties/ groups/ candidates to reserve such
places.
* To minimize the problems arising with regard to the reservation of playgrounds or halls owned by Local
Authorities, all politicians and supporters should follow instructions of the District Committee headed by
the Returning Officer.
It is expected that candidates contesting at the Parliamentary Election and Secretaries of their respective political
parties, agents and supporters of candidates, as applicable, act in accordance with the aforesaid code. It is also expected that
the candidates and, as relevant, Secretaries of Political Parties will make suitable arrangements to ensure that their
agents, party members, followers and supporters earnestly observe this Code of Conduct.
M
AHINDA D ESHAPRIY A
Commissioner of Elections
Elections Secretariat,
Sarana Mawatha,
Rajagiriya.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.