

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1651
1651
wxl 1"928 - 2015 wf.daia;= ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'08'14
No. 1,928 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 14, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1654
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1655
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th September, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st
August,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1652
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1653
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1654
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MONARAGALA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 07th of September,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd of July, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Monaragala Madagama Post of Muslim Registrar of Marriages District Se cretary/Additional Registrar
of Bakinigahawela Division General, District Secretariat,
Monaragala.
08–357
––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages,  Births and Deaths
COLOMBO   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1655
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 07th Sep tember,
2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
22nd of July, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Colombo Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) D istrict Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Colombo Division in Panchikawatta General, District Secretariat,
Area Colombo 05.
08–356
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH  AND  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE
Recruitment (Open/Limited) to the Post of Perfusionist in
Grade II of Infield/In Office, Officer Segment 02 Service
Category (MN 05-2006A)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the Sri Lankan citizens
who have fulfilled the following qualifications to recruit to the post
of Perfusionist Grade II on the basis of open and limited to fill the
vacancies exist in hospitals under the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine.
01. Method of Recruitment. – From the applicants who have
satisfied the qualifications mentioned in the notification, those who
will obtain highest marks at the examination conducted by the Ministry
of Health and Indigenous Medicine will be recruited after an interview
for checking physical and mental fitness considering the number of
existing vacancies (The number of officers recruited will be decided
by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine
considering the number of vacancies existing in the Ministry).
02. Required Qualifications (For open recruitment) :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Should have obtained a Bsc
Degree including Physics as a subject together with a
class from a University recognized by the University
Grants Commission ;
(ii) Physical fitness.– Should be fit mentally and physically
to serve in any part of the Island ;
(iii) Other :
* Applicants should have fulfilled all qualifications
mentioned in the notification as at the closing date of
applications.
* Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens.
* Applicants should be excellent in character.
03. Required Qualifications (For limited recruitment) :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Should have obtained a Bsc
Degree obtained from a University recognized by the
University Grant Commission.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1656
(ii) Experience.– Should be a Nursing Officer who have minimum 05 years work experiences.
(iii) Physical Fitness.– Should be fit mentally and physically to serve in any part of the Island.
(iv) Other.– Should have fulfilled all the qualifications required for the recruitment to the post in all tenpects as at the closing
date.
04. Terms of Engagement Conditions of Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable and you should contribute to the Widow's/Widower's and Orphan's Pension
Scheme.
(ii) This appointment is subjected to probationary period of 03 years. (only recruitments limited are subject to an acting
period of one year).
(iii) Officers who have not entered the service in the official language should obtain the proficiency in official language within
the period of probation.
(iv) Relevant level fo langauge proficiency should be obtained in terms of P. S. C. 07/2007 and circulars incidental there to.
(v) This appointment is subjected to the provisions of Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission, Financial Regulations
and Provisions of Establishments Code.
05. Age Limit.– Applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age by the closing date. (The upper age
limit is not applicable for the limited recruitments).
06. Salary Scale.– Salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 16,720 -10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450 - Rs. 30,685.
07. Written Test will be conducted on the following subjects :
Name of the Syllabus T ime Maximum Pass
question paper Marks Marks
(1) It is expected to test the candidate's ability of understanding of meaning and 1  1/2 hrs 100 40%
Intelligence co-relation between the time and the space through the conclusions and
Test responses of candidates to the problems given as numbers and pictures
(2) It is expected to test awareness and knowledge of the candidate on the 03 hrs 100 40%
Common General Knowledge on social, cultural, educational, political, economical
Test and other relevant factors national and international level and within
different organizational environments over the world
08. Identity of candidates.– Candidates who have completed the application in all respects will only be called for the written
examination :
Following  documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination :
01. National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons,
02. Valid Pass Port.
09. (a) Applications should be sent to reach the following address by registered post on or before 11.09.2015. Applications
received after the closing date will be rejected :
Secretary,
(Director (Admin.) 07 Branch),
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
No. 385, V en. Baddegama Wimalawansha Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
(b) A specimen of the application which should be submitted is given at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared using a paper of size A4 and cages from 01 to 07 should appear on the first side of the page and cages from 08
to 11 should appear on the second side. The application should be perfected in hand writing of the candidate.
(c) The words application for the post of Perfusionist (limited/open) should be written on the top-left hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1657
(d) Candidate's signature in the applicant should be attested
by Principal of government school/Justice of the Peace/
Commissioner of Oath/an Attorney-at-law/a Notary
Public/Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/an
officer holding a Gazetted Post in the police service or
an officer holding a permanent post in the public service
who gets an annual consolidated salary more than
Rs. 273,060.
(e) Every applicant should pay the examination fee of
Rs. 500 by a money order addressed to the Secretary,
Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
"Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa
Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, which is payable from
the General Post Office, Colombo. Examination fee will
not be refunded for any reason.
(f) Officers who are already in the Public Service or
Provincial Public Service should send their applications
through the respective Head of the Department.
(g) Applications which are not in accordance with the
specimen form of application will be rejected. No
complain on misplace or delay of application will be
accepted.
10.  Providing False Information.– If any information provided
in the application sent by you found to be false or inaccurate before
the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled.
If so found after the recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss
from the service, subject to the relevant procedures.
* In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, the
Sinhala text prevails.
* Any question with regard to the contents in the Gazette
notification, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry
of Health and Indigenous Medicine will be final.
V . B. P . K. W
EERASINGHE,
Acting Secretary,
Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine.
Suwasiripaya,
No. 385,
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
27th May, 2015.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND INDIGENOUS MEDICINE
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT (OPEN AND LIMITED) TO THE POST OF PERFUSIONIST
The basis on which you apply : Open/Limited
District of Residence : Medium of Examination :
(Sinhala - 01/Tamil 02/English - 03)
Write the relevant number in the cage.
01. 1.1 Name of the Applicant with initials Mr/Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) E.g. : SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (Private) :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Address (Private)  :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address (Official)  :–––––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.4 Address (Official) :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(An Officer who is employed in Public Service/Provincial Service/Corporation should mention his/her official address. Change of
address should be informed immediately).
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at closing date :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'08'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.08.2015
1658
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
05. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
06. Gender :–––––––––––––.
07. Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
(Qualifications under paragraph 02 of the notification)
Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
Experience :–––––––––––––.
08. Particulars relevant to the receipt of the payment of examination fee :
(i) The office to which the examination fee was paid :––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and Date :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :–––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt obtained by paying the Examination fee here as not to be detached.
09. Certification of the Applicant :
I solemnly declare that the particulars given herein are true and correct. I agree that if any particulars herein is found to be incorrect
or false prior to the selection, my application will be cancelled and if so found so after selection I am liable to be dismisse d from service
without any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on
......................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attestor.
(Authenticate with Rubber Stamp)
Name in full :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
11. Certificate of Head of the Department/Institute (only for the applicants in Public Service/Provincial Public Service) :
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ has been serving in this Department/Provincial Council/Institute
since ....................... and holds a pensionable/temporary post and he/she has earned all the increments during the past .................. years and
has not been subjected to a disciplinary punishment of any kind (except being advised) and all the particulars given above were  checked
referring to the records at this office and found correct. Furthermore, I hereby state that he/she can/cannot be released from service if selected
and that he/she placed the signature in my presence.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/Institute.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Department :–––––––––––––.
(Authenticate with Rubber Stamp)
08–304
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.