

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
901
901
wxl 1"608 - 2009 cqks 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'06'26
No. 1,608 – FRIDAY , JUNE 26, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 904
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 914
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd July, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th June,
2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,607 of 19.06.2009 was not published.
Note.- (i) Deshamanya Ravindra Wanigasekara Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 20th February, 2009.
(ii) Lanka Nature Loving Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 24th April, 2009.
(iii) Association of International Co-operation Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 30th April, 2009.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
902
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
903
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
904
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERALS'  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths Puttalam District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the sch edule
hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said  Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places su ch
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural
Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th July,2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar Generals' Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
27th May, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretariat Division applications are called applications should be sent
Puttalam Chillaw Post of Medical Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Births & deaths of Chillaw General, District Secretariat,
Town Division Puttalam.
06-476
REGISTRAR   GENERALS'   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths Matara District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of  Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female  can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
905
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places su ch
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural
Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th July,2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
18th May, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Matara Kotapola Post of Registrar of  Marriage (General) District Secretary/
in Morawak Korale West and births and Addi. Registrar General, Matara.
deaths in Pallegama Division.
Matara Kirinda Post of Registrar of  Marriage (General) District Secretary/
Puhulwella in Gangabodapattu Division and births Addi. Registrar General, Matara.
and deaths in Kirinda East Division.
Matara Dickwella Post of Registrar of  Marriage (General) District Secretary/
in Wellabodapattu Division and births and Addi. Registrar General, Matara.
deaths in Dickwella Division.
Matara Mulatiyana Post of Registrar of  Marriage (General) in District Secretary/
Kandabodapattu and births and deaths in Addi. Registrar General, Matara.
Ranchagoda Division.
Matara Akuressa Post of Registrar of  Marriage (General) in District Secretary/
Akuressa Division of Weligam Korale. Addi. Registrar General, Matara.
06-470
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages Kandy District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
906
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places su ch
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural
Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th July,2009.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar for Geli District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
Oya New Elpitiya area of Udunuwara General District Secretariat
and Yatinuwara Division. Kandy.
06-471
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts  of Registrars – Muslim  Marriages  Ampara   District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out  in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said marriage registration, Divisions  and should be entitled to properties
and have  acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim males  only   can  apply for these  posts.
04. Applicants should  be not  less  than  21 years and not more   than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding  educational and other  Qualifications etc. could  be obtained  from the  notices exhibited in public places
such   as District Secretariats, Land  and District Registries Divisional Secretaries Offices,  Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development
Societies and Co – operative Societies  in the Division.
07. Application  forms are  obtainable  from  the offices  of District  Secretaries  (Government  Agents) and  Land  and  District
Registries.  Applications  should  be sent  by  registered post  to the  address given in the  Schedule on or before 27th of Ju ly, 2009.
E. M.  G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
 Registrar  General's  Department,
No. 234/A3,  Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
02nd June, 2009.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
907
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ampara Kalmunai P ost of Muslim Marriage  Registrar  for District Secretary/
Naipattimuna area of Karawahupattu Addi.  Registrar General
Division District Secretariat  Ampara
06-474
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts  of Registrars – Muslim  Marriages
BADULLA    DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out  in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said marriage registration divisions  and should be entitled to properties
and have  acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim males  only   can  apply for these  posts.
04. Applicants should  be not  less  than  21 years and not more   than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding  educational and other  Qualifications etc. could  be obtained  from the  notices exhibited in public places
such   as District Secretariats, Land  and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices,  Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development
Societies and Co – operative Societies  in the Division.
07. Application  forms are  obtainable  from  the offices  of District  Secretaries  (Government  Agents) and Land and District
Registries.  Applications  should  be sent  by  registered post  to the  address given in the  Schedule on or before 27th July,  2009.
E. M.  G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar  General's  Department,
No. 234/A3,  Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
02nd June, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be sent
Badulla Haldummulla Post of Muslim Marriage  Registrar  of District Secretary/ Addi.  Registrar
Haldummulla  Division General  District Secretariat
Badulla
06-475

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
908
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts  of Registrars – Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out  in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have  acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both  Male  and Female can  apply for these  posts.
04. Applicants should  be not  less  than  21 years and not more   than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding  educational and other  Qualifications etc. could  be obtained  from the  notices exhibited in public places
such   as District Secretariats, Land  and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices,  Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development
Societies and Co – operative Societies  in the Division.
07. Application  forms are  obtainable  from  the offices  of District  Secretaries  (Government  Agents) and  Land  and  District
Registries.  Applications  should  be sent  by  registered post  to the  address given in the  Schedule on or before 24th July,  2009.
E. M.  G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar  General's  Department,
No. 234/A3,  Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
18th  May,  2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Kundasale Post  of Registrar of Marriage (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/
in  Pathadumbara Division and  births Addi.  Registrar General Kandy.
and deaths in Udagampaha  East  Division
Kandy Harispattuwa Post  of Registrar of Marriage (General/Kandyan) District Secretary/
in  Harispattuwa  Division and  births and Addi.  Registrar General Kandy.
deaths in Kulugammana Siyapattu – 01  Division
Kandy Udunuwara Post  of Additional Marriage Registrar (General/ District Secretary/
Kandyan) in Meewathura area of Udunuwara Addi.  Registrar General  Kandy.
Yatinuwara Divisions
06-472
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts  of Registrars – Marriages, Births and Deaths
AMPARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out  in the schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
909
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions  and should be
entitled to properties and have  acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both  Male  and Female can  apply for these  posts.
04. Applicants should  be not  less  than  21 years and not more   than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should  be married.
06. Details regarding  educational and other  Qualifications etc. could  be obtained  from the  notices exhibited in public places
such   as District Secretariats, Land  and District Registries Divisional Secretaries Offices,  Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development
Societies and Co – operative Societies  in the Division.
07. Application  forms are  obtainable  from  the offices  of District  Secretaries  (Government  Agents) and  Land  and  District
Registries.  Applications  should  be sent  by  registered post  to the  address given in the  Schedule on or before 27th July,  2009.
E. M.  G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar  General's  Department,
No. 234/A3,  Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
02nd June, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ampara Adidalachchena Post  of Registrar Births and District Secretary/ Addi.  Registrar
Deaths of Adidalachchena  Division General District Secretariat Ampara.
Ampara Sammanthura Post  of Registrar Births and District Secretary/ Addi.  Registrar
Deaths of Sammanthura West Division General District Secretariat Ampara.
06-473
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05. Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places su ch
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural
Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
910
06. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th July,2009.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division applications are called applications should be sent
Matara Hakmana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for District Secretary/
Mee Ella Division. Addi. Registrar General, Matara
Matara Matara Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for District Secretary/
Kotuwegoda Division. Addi. Registrar General, Matara.
Matara Dickwella Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages for District Secretary/
Dickwella Division. Addi. Registrar General, Matara.
06-469
MINISTRY  OF  FISHERIES  AND  AQUATIC  RESOURCES
Department of Coast Conservation
APPOINTMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the Sri Lankan citizens who possess the necessary qualifications mentioned in this gazette
notification for the Post of Legal Officer which has fallen vacant in the Department of Coast Conservation coming under the pur view of
the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources. Applications prepared in terms of the following specimen application form shou ld be
sent by registered post to reach "Director, Department of Coast Conservation, 4th floor, New Secretariat, Maligawatta, Colombo 10" on
or before 17.07.2009. The words "Appointment to the Post of Legal Officer" should be indicated on top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the applications.
(i) The applications and relevant documents should only be sent to the official address of the Director of Coast Conservation,
not to the personal address of any officer.
(ii) Applications that are not in conformity with the specimen application and the gazette notification will be rejected without
any notification.
(iii) Complaints regarding the loss or delay of applications and related documents in post will not be acknowledged.
(iv) The officers who are already in Public/Provincial Public Service should send their applications through the Head of the
Institution along with his/her recommendation.
02. Salary Scale .– In terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006, initial step of SLI - 2006 which is
Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
2.1 The salary applicable to the recruitment grade is Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - Rs. 29,385.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
911
Note.– The Salary applicable to the recruitment grade will be paid until a promotion scheme is prepared by obtaining the
observations of the salary and cadre commission and the officer is given promotions accordingly.
03. Age Limit.– Should not be below 22 years of age and over 45 years of age.  (This age limit is not applicable to those who are
already in Public Service).
04. Educational and other qualifications .– Should have obtained a LLB degree or a pass at the final examination of the
Law College.
05. Professional and Other Qualifications .– Should be an Attorney-at-Law with 03 years experience.
06. Scheme of Recruitment.– The applications will be called through Government Gazette press notice and the candidates who
have the basic qualifications will be selected to this post by a structured interview conducted by an interview panel in accord ance with
a marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission.
The marking scheme of the structured interview is given below :-
Maximum Marked
1. Educational Qualifications 30
Marks
(i) Have obtained a Merit Pass at the final examination of the
Law College 05
(ii) (a) Have obtained a Degree of Bachelor of Law with a Second
class (Lower Division) 05
(b) Have obtained a Degree of Bachelor of Law with a Second
class (Upper Division) 08
(c) Have obtained a Degree of Bachelor of Law with a First class 10
(iii) Postgraduate Diploma related to Law 12
(iv) Postgraduate Degree related to Law 15
2. Experience gained in the field of Law 25
05 marks will be given for each year additionally served as an Attorney-at-Law in excess of 03 years.
External applicants should submit a service certificates at the interview and those certificates should be given by a Judicial
Officer or a Senior Lawyer who has more than 10 years experience in the service.
3. Service experience obtained as a Legal Officer in the Public Service 10
The relevant Head of Department/Institution should be certified.
4. Awareness and knowledge on the Coast Conservation Act 10
(i) Administration 01
(ii) Management of Coastal Zones 01
(iii) Permit Procedure 01
(iv) General Provisions 01
(v) Definitions 01
(vi) Knowledge in the procedure for filing cases in the Court of
Appeal under Coast Conservation Act 05
5. Language proficiency in English 10
(The marks should be given for the highest qualification obtained)
(i) If the officer has passed a degree or a post graduate
Degree or a post graudate diploma in English medium 10
(ii) Having followed a certificate course in English
which is not less than 06 months from recognized institute 08
(iii) Passed English as a subject at G. C. E. (A/L) examination 07

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
912
6. Computer knowledge 10
(The marks should be given for the highest qualification obtained)
(i) Having followed Computer Science as a main subject of the Degree 10
(ii) Having followed a Diploma Course which is not less than
One year 08
(iii) Having followed a Certificate Course not less than 06 months 05
7. Personality and skills shown at the interview 05
(i) Leadership/Personality 02
(ii) Communication skills 02
(iii) Skills shown at the interview 01 –––
100
07. Terms and conditions of service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The appointee should contribute to the widows/widower and orphans
pension scheme.
(ii) Those who are recruited to the post will be subject to the sections 10-12 of Chapter II of the Establishment Code.
(iii) Appointee should pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years from the date of appointment to the post.
The Legal Officers of Class III should pass the second Efficiency Bar Examination within 05 years from the appointment
to  the Class III. Those are written tests and conducted by the Department of Coast Conservation.
The first Efficiency Bar Examination is comprised of a paper or two hours duration on office administration and
Establishment Code and one paper of two hours duration on Financial Regulations and Government Tender guidelines
issued in year 2006.
The appointee should obtain at least 40% marks for each paper in order to obtain a pass.
The second Efficiency Bar Examination is comprised of a paper of two hours duration on Coast Conservation Act and
the relevant regulations and a paper of two hours duration on coastal zone management planning.
The appointee should obtain at least 40% marks for each paper in order to obtain a pass.
(iv) The selected new officers will be subject to a probationary period of three years and if an officer confirmed in a post
of public service is selected to this post his/her appointment is subject to a one year supervisory period. If the work
and conduct of the officer is appeared to be satisfactory during this period he/she will be confirmed in the post.
(v) The appointee should be willing to serve in any area of the island.
08. The candidates should attach the following documents (not originals) to their applications :
(i) Certificate of Birth (Baptismal certificate or the certificate issued for the purposes of code of Regulations for assisted
Schools will not be accepted).
(ii) Educational certificates.
(iii) Professional certificates/Certificate of Experience and Training.
(iv) Two certificates of character and suitability to this post, obtained recently (candidates already in the Public Service/
Provincial Pubilc Service need not submit this certificate).
09. Your attention is invited to the general conditions applicable to the appointment to the posts in Public Services set out a t
the beginning of paragraph IIA of Part I of this gazette.
By Order of the Public Services Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources.
Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources,
New Secretariat, Maligawatta,
Colombo 10.
2009.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
913
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(Should be prepared in 8" x 13" papers)
MINISTRY OF FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES
POST OF LEGAL OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COAST CONSERVATION
For office use only
01. Full Name :––––––––––.
02. Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
03. Official Address :––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––.
04. Private Address :––––––––––.
Telephone Number :––––––––––.
05. (a) Whether a citizen of Sri Lankan :––––––––––.
(b) If so by descent or Registration :––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
Age on the closing date of applications :–
07. National Identity Card Number :
08. Sex :––––––––––.
09. Whether Married/Unmarried or Widow/Widower :––––––––––.
10. Particulars of the post holding if the candidate is employed in the Public/Provincial Public Government Service :
(a) Post :––––––––––.
(b) Whether Permanent or Temporary :––––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non pensionable :––––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in service :––––––––––.
(e) Department :––––––––––.
(f) Present place of work :––––––––––.
(g) Monthly salary in terms of the current salary circular :––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications :
Examination Year Subject Grade
12. Particulars of Professional/Technical Qualifications :
Certificate Institute Year Subject
13. Posts Previously held (in order) :
Department/ Post Whether permanent or Duration
Institute T emporary From       To
(Year)     (Year)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
914
14. Other Additional Qualifications :
Department/ Type of Duty Duration
Institute From       To
(Year)     (Year)
15. Whether the candidates have been convicted of an offence ? If so give details :–––––––––.
16. Whether the candidate have been dismissed from Government service/If so give details :
I hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application are true and correct. I am aware that should any of t he
information furnished by me in this application are found to be incorrect or false, I am liable to disqualification before sele ction and
dismissal without any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
(i) That I hereby certify Mr./Mrs./Miss............................... Employed as a permanent/temporary/casual employee in this
Department that his/her work and conduct are satisfactory. He/She has not been subjected to any disciplinary action (except
warning) ; and
(ii) That I have verified the information he/she has given in his/her application and have found them to be accurate.
(iii) If he/she is selected for appointment he/she can be released/cannot be released from service.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––;
Name :––––––––;
Designation :––––––––;
Place :––––––––.
06–654
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  I  OF
THE  TRANSLATORS’  SERVICE- 2009
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified persons for recruitment to Class I of the Translators’ Service.
1.1 In this notice "Secretary" means the Secretary to the Ministry to which the subject of Public Administration is assigned
and the "Service" means the Translators’ Service of the Combined Services.
1.2 This examination will be held in Colombo by the Commissioner-General of Examinations. The Secretary reserves the right
to postpone or cancel this examination subject to the instructions given by the Public Services Commission. Number of
persons to be appointed on the results of the examination and the effective date of appointments will be determined by the
Public Services Commission. The Public Services Commission reserves the right to refrain from filling all or some of the
vacancies. The number of vacancies to be filled will be determined by the Public Services Commission depending on the
national requirement.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
915
2.0 Recruitment will be made for the following media:
(i) Sinhala/Tamil - Tamil/Sinhala
(ii) Sinhala/English - English/Sinhala
(iii) Tamil/English - English/Tamil
3.0 Structure and Salary Scale.– As per Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 (iv) dated 24.08.2007, Salary Code Number
of Class I of Translator’s Service is MN-6-2006 A and accordingly, monthly salary scale of Class I of Translators’ Service is Rs. 21,245-
10x365-15x45-Rs. 31,645. Officers are required to pass first efficiency bar before reaching 4th Salary Step.
No examption will be made from the requirement of passing efficiency bar on completion of 45 years of age. (As per P A Circular
20/2001 dated 12.09.2001).
4.0 Conditions of Service .- Selected candidates will be appointed to Class I of the Translators’ Service subject to the General
conditions Governing the appointments to the Public Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the minute of Translators' Service
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 829/7 of 26.07.1994, and any amendments
already made and would be made thereto in future.
5.0 Selected candidates will be required to submit themselves to a medical examination by a Government Medical Officer before
asuming duties and if it is found that the candidate is not physically fit to serve in any part of the Island the appoinment wi ll not take
effect.
6.0 Qualifications: The candidate should-
(i) be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) have a credit pass in the first language at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination or at an equivalent examination ; and
a credit pass in the second language at the G . . C. E. (O/L) examination or at an equivalent examination OR any acceptable
higher qualification in the second language; and
(iii) (a) be a graduate of a recognized university or;
(b) an Attorney-at-Law or;
(c) a holder of Advanced Diploma in Commerce of a recognized technical college or polytechnic college or;
(d) a holder of Advanced National Diploma in Management of the Open University or;
(e) a holder of National Dipoma in Technology of the University of Moratuwa.
Note I: The effective date of the above degree or certificates should be on or before 26.06.2009.
(iv) Be not below 21 years and not above 40 years of age on the last day of the month preceding the month in which the
closing date for applications falls i. e. 30.06.2009 (The upper age limits will not apply to the officers who are holding
permanent posts in the Public or Provincial Public Service).
Note 2: A candidate who has passed in any two subjects viz Sinhala, Tamil and English at the Degree Examination, will be
placed two steps above the initial salary of the scale.
7.0 Examination Fees.– The fee for the examination is Rs. 300. Fees should be paid to any District/Divisional Secretariat to be
credited to Revenue Head 4000-20-03-20-13 before the closing date of the applications. The receipt received should be affixed i n the
relevant cage of the application. Fees are not refundable. It is advisable to keep a photo copy of the cash receipt with the ca ndidate.
8.0 Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate him/herself on A-4 size papers using both sides of the papers. It should be specially noted that the application
forms should be so prepared that cages 1 to 7 appear on the first side of the paper, 8 to 11 appear on the other side of
the paper and 12 to 13 on the 3rd page.
(b) The application should be prepared in the language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) Candidates’ signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice
of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, an

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
916
Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose
annual salary is more than Rs. 230,700.
(d) The completed applications should be sent by registered post to the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Department
of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla so as to reach him on or before 27.07.2009. Applications received after that
date will not be accepted. The top-left hand corner of the envelope containing the application should clearly bear the
words "Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Translators’ Service - 2009."
(e) The candidates who are in the Public Service at present should submit their applications through the Head of the
Department under whom they serve. A candidate who fails to do so, will be considered as disqualified. Candidates are
requested to submit their applications to the Head of the Department as early as possible to enable him to forward them
to the Commissioner-General of Examinations on or before 27.07.2009.
(f) Any application which is not complete in every respect is liable to be rejected without notice. Complaints on applications
getting lost or delayed in the post will not be considered.
(g) Applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be published in the newspapers as soon as admission cards are
issued to applicants. Applicants are advised to be on the look out for such a notice. Any candidate who has not received
his/her admission card at least seven days before the day of the Examination should immediately notify the Commissioner-
General of Examinations, Department of Examination, Battaramulla. (Telegraphic Address "Exams" Colombo) with the
following particulars :
(i) Name of the Examinations;
(ii) Full Name of the Candidate;
(iii) Address;
(iv) Date of posting the application, Registration Number and Post Office;
(v) Number, District/Divisional Secretariat and Date of the Receipt;
9.0 Admission to the Examination:
(a) On the assumption that only those who possess the qualifications will send in applications, the Commissioner General
of Examinations will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been received. A candidate presenting
for the examination must produce his/her admission card to the supervisor of the examination  centre. A candidate who
fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) The candidate must sit the examination at the examination hall which has been assigned to him/her. Every candidate
should get his/her signature attested in advance and admission card shall be surrendered to the supervisor of the hall on
the first day he/she presents him/herself for the examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published
in this Gazette.
Note: The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the required qualifications to sit the
examination.
10.0 Identification of Candidates: A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor for each subject offered. For this purpose any of the following documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid Passport.
11.0 Penalry for furnishing false information:- If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false wi thin his
knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal from the Public Service.
12.0 Method of Examination:-It consists of two parts. i. e. written examination and an interview.
12.1 Written Examination:- Question papers on the following subjects :
(a) Translation - 100 marks - 3 hour duration
(b) English Language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour duration
(c) Sinhala Language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour duration
(d) Tamil Language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour duration
(e) Comprehension - 100 marks - 1 1/2 hour duration

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
917
12.1.1 Syllabus:
1. Translation: Translation of difficult passages taken from official, scientific, legal and technical documents and
classical literature including extracts from an official document, report or newspaper article either (i) OR (ii) OR
(iii) OR of the following
(i) From Sinhala to Tamil and Tamil to Sinhala
(ii) From Sinhala to English and English to Sinhala
(iii) From Tamil to English and English to Tamil
(A high standard of competence is expected in Translation)
Note: English/Sinhala/Tamil Language Paper: For this purpose question papers will be designed in three languages and the
candidate should sit for the relevant papers in two languages.
2. English Languages:- A candidate will be required to write an essay, to make a precis, to summarize a given passage
in candidate’s own words, to construct sentences using words to bring out their meaning to correct grammatical
errors in sentences and to explain the meaning of idioms.
3. Sinhala Language:- A candidate will be required to write an essay, to make a precis, to summarize a given passage
in candidate’s own words, to construct sentences using words to bring out their meaning, to correct grammatical
errors in sentences and to explain the meaning of idioms.
4. Tamil Language:- A candidate will be required to write an essay, to make a precis, to summarize a given passage
in candidates own words, to construct sentences using words to bring out their meaning, to correct grammatical
errors in sentences and to explain the meaning of idioms.
5. Comprehension:- The comprehension paper will be prepared in Sinhala/Tamil/English Language and the candidates
are allowed to answer the question papers in one of the languages according to their choice.
Candidates will be given a set of passages, and also candidates will be presented with a set of alternative
statements one of which fits the content of the passage best. He would be required to pick the most appropriate
statement. In case of other passages questions will be set to test the extent to which the candidate is able to grasp
the meaning of the passage.
N.B.– Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and spelling mistakes. A candidate whose handwriting is illegible is liable
to be disqualified.
12.1.2 A candidate will be required to obtain a minimum of 40 percent in each paper and candidates will be selected for
appointments in the merit order of the aggregate marks depending on the number of existing vacancies.
12.2 Interview:- An interview will be held to examine the eligibility, educational certificates and the physical fitness of the
candidates. No marks shall be awarded for this purpose.
13. All applicants should read the Gazette Notification  carefully before the application form is completed. Relevant
codes should be written correctly and no appeals will be considered regarding any corrections due to mistakes or
inadvertence. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application and the cash receipt with the candidate.
14. The matters not provided for in these regulations will be decided by the "Public Services Commission".
On the order of the Public Services Commission.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
09th June, 2009.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
918
Specimen Form of Application
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS I OF THE TRANSLATORS’ SERVICE-2009
(For office use only)
01. (i) Name with Initials :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) eg. SILV A, A. B.
(ii) Name in Full (i) In English :––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––––.
(iii) Number of the N. I. C. :
02. (i) Address to which the application should be sent (in English block Capitals) :––––––––––.
(ii) Address to which the application should be sent (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
(iii) Of ficial Address (in English block Capitals) :––––––––––.
03. (i) Sex: Female: 1 Male: 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(ii) Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
(iii) Ethnicity:
Sinhala 01 Muslim 04
Lanka Tamil 02 Other 05
Indian Tamil 03
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. Indicate below the post, which you complete for in the Translators’ Service
(i) Sinhala/Tamil Translator 01
(ii) Sinhala/English Translator 02
(iii) T amil/English Translator 03
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Language Medium of Examination:
Sinhala/Tamil-1,       Sinhala/English-2,      Tamil/English-3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. Whether married or single:
Married-1,    Single-2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
07. (i) Date of Birth:
Year: Month:           Date:
(ii) Age as at 30.06.2009:
Years:              Months: Days:
08. Particulars of educational qualifications you possess to appear for this examination as per para 6.0 of this Gazette Notification .
(a) (i) Name of the Degree  OR  the Certificate which qualifies you to apply :––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the establishment from which the said certificate was obtained :––––––––––.
(iii) The effective date of the degree or certificate :––––––––––.
(iv) Language medium of the degree :–––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'06'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.06.2009
919
(v) Other languages passed at the degree:
(1) ––––––––––.
(2) ––––––––––.
(b) (i) The G . C. E. (O/L) Examination OR the similar examination from which a credit pass was obtained for the first language:
Year :––––––––––.
(ii) The G . C. E. (O/L) Examination from which a credit pass was obtained for the 2nd language OR the Examination from which
a similar qualifications were obtained.
Exam :––––––––––.   Year :––––––––––.
09. Whether you are holding a permanent post in Public or Provincial Public Service at present: Yes/No
Name of the Post :––––––––––.
Present Institution :––––––––––.             Date of Appointment :––––––––––.
10. Affix the receipt so as not be detached:
11.  I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information given in this form is true and that I have affixed th e receipt
No. ...........   dated ............. being payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examination and
any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ine ligible
according to the regulations of this examination.
I have carefully read the Gazette Notification and understood the contents thereof before completing this application form, and in case
of any error in code numbers, or in the information supplied due to any mistake or inadvertence on my part, I promise to bear t he
loss caused thereby, and not to lodge any appeal in that connection.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date:––––––––––.
12. Attestation of the Applicant’s Signature:
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................................... residing at  ..........................  is personally known to me and
that he/she signed before me on ....................
Signature of the person attesting :––––––––––.
Name and Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
Note - The signatures of the persons in public service should be certified by the relevant Head of the Department or by an officer
authorized to do so on behalf of him.
13. Certificate of the Head of the Department:
I certify that the particulars given by this applicant in paras 07, 08 and 09 are correct, his/her work and conduct are satisfa ctory and
that he/she has satisfied the qualifications as per Gazette Notification  to appear for this examination.
He/she can be released from service if selected.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and Official Stamp.
Designation :––––––––––,
Date :––––––––––.
06-507
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.