

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1842
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 1838
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"079 – 2018 cQ,s ui 06 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'07'06
No. 2,079  –  FRIDAY ,  JULY 06, 2018
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th July, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th July, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1835 - B 81427- 5,403 (07/2018)
Note.–  (i) New Villages Development Authority for Plantation Region Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2018.
 (ii) Of ﬁ ce for Reparations Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of June 22, 2018.
 (iii) Carriage by Air Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka of June 29, 2018.
N. B.–   Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2,078 of 29.06.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1836
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro
ﬁ ciency in one of the 
ofﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1837
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disquali ﬁ cation from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certi ﬁ cate for a speciﬁ ed period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed ﬁ nal.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identi ﬁ ed only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difﬁ cult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any ﬁ le 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is suf ﬁ cient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identiﬁ cation documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and ﬁ gures should be 
accurate and sufﬁ ciently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1838
Posts – Vacant
AMENDMENT OF DIVISION AND CLOSING DATE OF APPLICATIONS FOR WHICH 
APPLICATIONS ARE CALLED FOR RECRUITMENT OF REGISTRAR OF ADDITIONAL 
MARRIAGE OF THE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTMENT 
Gampaha District 
IT is kindly noti ﬁ ed that the division for which applications are called for recruitment for the post of additional marriage 
registrar, for the division appearing in the following Schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2064 of 
23.03.2018 is amended as Post of Registrar of Additional marriage in Udugampola Division and closing date for which 
applications are called is amended as 06.08.2018.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notiﬁ cation remain unchanged. 
 N
EIL DE ALWIS,
 Registrar General. 
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which Application are called
Gampaha Minuwangoda Post of Registrar of Additional marriage in Udugampola Division
07–190
–––––––––––––––
AMENDMENT OF DIVISIONAL SECRETARIAT DIVISION AND CLOSING DATE OF 
APPLICATIONS FOR WHICH APPLICATIONS ARE CALLED FOR RECRUITMENT OF 
REGISTRAR OF MARRIAGE, BIRTH AND DEATH OF THE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S 
DEPARTMENT 
Galle District 
IT is kindly noti ﬁ ed that the Divisional Secretariat Division for which applications are called for recruitment for the post 
of Muslim Marriage Registrar, for the Division appearing in the following Schedule which was published by me in the 
Gazette No. 2074 of 01.06.2018 is amended as Bope Poddala and closing date for which applications are called is amended 
as 06.08.2018.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notiﬁ cation remain unchanged. 
 N
EIL DE ALWIS,
 Registrar General. 
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which 
Applications are called
Address to which applications 
should be sent
Galle Bope Poddala Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar 
of Galle District Division of 
Uluwitake - Nawinna Area 
District Secretary/Additional 
Registrar General, District 
Secretariat, Galle
07–189

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1839
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
Post of Assistant Serjeant – At- Arms
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka who are physically sound and of excellent moral character for the 
post of “Assistant Serjeant – At - Arms” on the Staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament.
Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before 24 th July 2018. 
The term of “Assistant Serjeant – At – Arms” should be indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. (This notice 
is accessible via www.parliament.lk)
1. Salary Scale.– According to the Schedule I of the Management Services Circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
salary scale speciﬁ ed for this post is Rs. 58,295 – 3 x 1,335 / 8 x 1,630 / 2 x 2,170  – 79,680. (The minimum initial gross 
monthly remuneration together with all the allowances will be approximately Rs. 100,000.00)
2. Age Limit.– Not less than 28 years and not more than 40 years of age as at the closing date for applications. 
3. Educational Qualiﬁ cations.– Degree obtained from a recognized university
And
Commendable service of not less than 8 years as an ofﬁ cer in one of the Armed Forces (Regular) or in the Sri Lanka 
Police Service and holding a rank of not less than Captain in the Army or Assistant Superintendent of Police or equivalent 
rank.
4. Method of Recruitment.– Through an interview.
5. Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) This post is permanent. Pension entitlement pertaining to this post will be determined according to the 
policy decisions taken by the Government in future.  Appointment will be made subject to three-year (3) 
probation period. If a person who has been conﬁ rmed in permanent, pensionable post is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of one year.
 (ii) Selected candidates will be subject to Financial and Departmental Regulations applicable to the staff of the 
Secretary General of Parliament.
 (iii) Selected candidates should contribute to Widows’ and Orphans’/Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund 
from his / her salary with a percentage speciﬁ ed by the government. Selected candidates will be subjected 
to a medical examination. 
 (iv) A Security Clearance Report in respect of the selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / her 
appointment.  
6. Applicants should attach the copies of the following certiﬁ cates (not originals) to their applications.  Originals of 
the certiﬁ cates should be produced, only when called upon to do so :
 ( a) Birth Certi ﬁ cate.
 ( b) Certi ﬁ cates of Educational qualiﬁ cations.
 ( c) Certi ﬁ cates conﬁ rming professional qualiﬁ cations.
 ( d) Certi ﬁ cates conﬁ rming experience.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1840
7. Applicants serving in the Public Service should send their applications through relevant Heads of Departments/ 
Institutions.
8. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualiﬁ cation for this post.
9. Any information in the application found to be incorrect disclosed before selection will render the applicant 
liable for disqualiﬁ cation, and to dismissal, if discovered after appointment.
10. Applications received after the closing date or sent without copies of the above mentioned certiﬁ cates or not sent 
through Heads of Departments / Institutions will be rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments /Institutions 
but received after the closing date, and applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will also be rejected. 
 W. M. N. P. I
DDAWALA, 
 Acting Secretary General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka.     
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte.
28th June, 2018.
PARLIAMENT OF SRI LANKA
P
OST OF ASSISTANT SERJEANT – AT - ARMS
01.  ( a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––. 
  ( b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil)  :––––––––––––.
  ( c) Full Name (in block Capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
03.  ( a) Private Address :––––––––––––.
   Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
  ( b) Of ﬁ cial Address :––––––––––––.
   Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
 Please indicate the address the admission to be posted
  ( c) Private                                                   Of ﬁ ce
04.  (i) Date of Birth :–––––––––––.  (A copy of the Birth Certi ﬁ cate should be attached)   
  (ii) Age as at 24 July 2018:  Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––. 
05. Civil Status :–––––––––––. 
06. Sex :–––––––––––. 
07. State whether a Citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1841
08. Educational Quali ﬁ cations: (Copies of the certiﬁ cates should be attached):
Exam Subject Pass Year Subject Pass Year
G. C. E. (O/L)
G. C. E. (A/L)
09. Higher Educational Quali ﬁ cations :
  (i) Degree and the year  :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) University  :–––––––––––. 
10. Professional Quali ﬁ cations (copies of the certiﬁ cates should be attached)  :–––––––––––. 
11. Experience (copies of the certi ﬁ cates should be attached)  :–––––––––––. 
12. Details of Present Employment:
  ( a) Name and Address of the Institution :––––––––––––.
  ( b) Date of First Appointment  :––––––––––––.
  ( c) Present Post  :––––––––––––.
  ( d) Monthly Basic Salary  :––––––––––––.
  ( e) Allowances  :––––––––––––.
  ( f) Gross Salary  :––––––––––––.
13. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a Court of Law? :––––––––––––.
 If yes, give details :––––––––––––.
14. Have you served under the Government before? :––––––––––––.
 If yes, give details :––––––––––––. 
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that, I 
am liable to be disqualiﬁ ed for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before selection, 
or to be dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment. 
                                                             ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––. 
Certiﬁ cation of Head of Department/Institution :
Secretary General of Parliament, 
I recommend and forward the application of Mr./ Mrs. /Miss ............................... holding the post of .....................
.................................. in this Institution. I certify that his/her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has not been 
subjected to any disciplinary action or there is no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot be released 
from the service if selected for this post.   
  ––––––––––––––––,
                        Signature of Head of Department/Institution. 
 (Ofﬁ cial Stamp) 
Date :–––––––––––.
07–375   

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1842
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITY  OF MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology 
Course 2018/2019
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for 
admission to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year 
fulltime Course conducted by the Institute of Technology, 
University of Moratuwa. The Course will be conducted 
in the new premises of the Institute of Technology, 
University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
1. General.– The National Diploma in Technology 
Course consists of two years of academic study and one year 
of Industrial Training and is conducted in English medium. 
The course is offered in the following ﬁ elds of study : 
 (a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I) :
   (i) Marine Engineering Technology.
   (ii) Nautical Studies and Technology.
 (b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
 (i) Chemical Engineering Technology.
 (ii) Civil Engineering Technology.
 (iii) Electrical Engineering Technology.
 (iv) Electronic and Telecommunication Engineering 
Technology.
 (v) Information Technology.
 (vi) Mechanical Engineering Technology.
 (vii) Polymer Technology.
 (viii) Textile and Clothing Technology.
2. Eligibility : 
 
   2.1  Age : 
 ( a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on 
31.12.2017.
 ( b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2017 
will be given preference for admission to the 
Marine Engineering Technology and Nautical 
Studies and Technology Courses. A special 
medical test and interview would also be 
conducted for selection of students to Marine 
Engineering and Nautical Studies Courses. 
 ( c) Those who are fulltime registered students of 
any University under the UGC (except the Open 
University of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational 
Institute under the Ministry of Higher Education 
are not eligible to apply. 
2.2  Educational Qualiﬁ cations : 
 Applicants should have obtained passes in any three 
(03) of the following subjects :–
 (i) Physics,
 (ii) Chemistry,
 (iii) Combined Mathematics,
 (iv) Advanced Mathematics.
at one and the same sitting of a G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka in 2015 or 2016 or 2017.
3. Selection Criteria : 
 3.1 Admission to the Course : 
  The selection of students for admission will 
be based on the performance at G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination and the aptitude test to be conducted 
by the Institute of Technology, University of 
Moratuwa. 
  From those who pass the aptitude test, selections 
will be done in the merit order of G.C.E. (A/L) 
results, i.e. in the order of z-scores. In the selection, 
40% merit and 60% district quota will be applied.
 3.2   Field of Study :
  Aptitude test marks together with the applicant’s 
order of preference for the ﬁ eld of study as 
indicated in the ﬁ eld preference will be considered 
in the allocation of the ﬁ eld of study.
4. Application Procedure :
 4.1  Application Form :
 (i) Application should be made according to 
the Specimen Form given in this Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation. Specimen application will also 
be available in the following Web address.
http://www. itum.mrt.ac.lk

<!-- page 9 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1843
 (ii) Applications should be forwarded under 
Registered Post marked “ NDT Admission                 
2018/2019” on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope and addressed to the “Senior 
Assistant Registrar, Academic and Student 
Service Center, Institute of Technology, 
University of Moratuwa, Diyagama, 
Homagama.
 (iii) Application should reach the Senior Assistant 
Registrar, Institute of Technology, University 
of Moratuwa, Diyagama, Homagama on or 
before the closing date for applications.
 (iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope                      
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along 
with the application form.
 (v) No copies or originals of the certi ﬁ cates 
should be sent along with the application 
form. However, the content of the application 
has to be certiﬁ ed as indicated. (See cages 3 
& 5 in the form of application.)
 4.2  Field Preference :
 (i) There are  two SETS of ﬁ elds.
 (ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime 
Studies (SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or 
Both sets of ﬁ elds. The preference must be 
indicated if candidate applies to both sets of 
ﬁ elds.
 (iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for 
First preference and 2 for Second preference. 
This should be completed only by the 
candidates who are applying for Maritime 
Studies.
 (iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 
1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8 “1” for the “most preferred”, 
“2” for the next, and so on “8” for the least 
preferred. 
5.  (i)  Application Fee.– A receipt of payment in favour 
of “ Institute of Technology, University of 
Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank of 
Ceylon, Katubedda Branch ” to the value of               
Rs. 500.00 (Rupees Five Hundred) application 
fee for set I or set II and Rs. 700.00 (Rupees 
Seven Hundred) application fee for set I and set 
II, obtained only from any branch of the Bank of 
Ceylon should accompany each application. This 
application fee is non-refundable.
 (ii)  Closing Date.– The closing date of applications is 
06.08.2018.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to 
the G. C. E. (A./L.) performance in Merit and District Quota 
will be called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at 
the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
 (i) Candidates selected for admission will be required 
to produce the originals of the following certiﬁ cates 
on the date of registration :–
 * G.C.E. (A/L) Certi ﬁ cate,
 * Certi ﬁ cate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) 
Z-Score,
 * School Leaving Certi ﬁ cate,
 * Birth Certi ﬁ cate,
 * Af ﬁ davit in support of any changes in name 
appearing in different documents/certiﬁ cates.
8. Very Important 
:
 (i) A candidate once registered for the National 
Diploma in Technology Course will not be 
eligible for admission to any other course in 
this University or in any other University in Sri 
Lanka (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or 
in any other Higher Educational Institute under 
the Ministry of Higher Education during the 
tenure of the course.
 (ii) A student who has already registered in this 
university or any other university in Sri Lanka 
(except Open University of Sri Lanka) or in any 
other Higher Educational Institute is not be eligible 
for applying. 
 Director.
 Institute of Technology,
 University of Moratuwa.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1844
 
 APPLICATION  FOR  ADMISSION  TO  THE  NATIONAL  DIPLOMA    For ofﬁ ce use only
 IN  TECHNOLOGY  COURSE 
  Application No.
 I
NSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY OF MORATUWA 
  District
 ACADEMIC YEAR - 2018/2019 
Application for (Please    )
  1. Maritime Fields  - Set 1 
  2. Other Fields - Set 2
   [Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
1.   Personal Details :    (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
  Name in Full :
  
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
  Name with Initials :
      (Leave one blank cage between names)
 Title Mr./Ms.  Sex Male/Female
  
 Age (Years)    (Months) Date of Birth Date Month Year
 As at 31st Dec. 2017    
 National ID Number
2. Contact Details :
  Address (Residence):
  
      (Leave one blank cage between different segments of the address) 
  Telephone :  Mobile
  E-mail (if available) :


<!-- page 11 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1845
 3. Results of G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Examination Grades & Details obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score ...
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether 2015 or 2016 or 2017)                                                                                   

 4. Medium :
  
Medium in which you wish to sit the Aptitude Test
      
 5. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13 :
  
Year
 
Name &  Address of 
School District
 Period of Attendance
From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13 1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
 6. Certi ﬁ cation of Results and Schools attended :
  
 
 It is compulsory to certify the results under No. 3 and details under No. 5 in the application by the School 
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice of Peace for External Candidates.
  I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in the Cage No.3 and No. 5 are true and accurate 
according to the Original Certiﬁ cates.
  Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace : Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. .............................................................. ..
  
  Of ﬁ cial Seal
                                                                                                           ...................................... .....................
 Signature Date

<!-- page 12 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1846
 7. Field Preference :
SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed 
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime Studies.
SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. 8. ‘1’ for the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘8’ 
for the last preferred.
 Set 1 Set 2
 Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
 Marine Engineering  Technology Chemical Engineering Technology
 Nautical Studies and Technology Civil Engineering  Technology
  
  Electrical Engineering Technology
 
  Electronic and Telecommunication     
 State Priority, if applied for both sets –  
  Engineering Technology
 SET 1
  Information Technology
 SET 2
  Mechanical Engineering Technology
 
  Polymer Technology  
  Textile & Clothing Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student in any other University under the UGC (other 
than Open  University) or any other Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of 
Education ? (Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Yes No.
  APPLICANT’S  DECLARATION :
 1. I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any 
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of Education.
 2. I certify that all the particulars given by me in this Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the 
particulars given by me in this Application are found to be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be 
discontinued from the course.
 3. In the event of my being selected for admission after the Test, I shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations and 
the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
 4. I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of “Institute of 
Technology, University of Moratuwa - Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubadde Branch”.
 5. I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope (Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".

<!-- page 13 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1847
 6. I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another University or any other Higher Educational Institution 
under the Ministry of Higher Education at the time of sitting for the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in 
Technology Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
07–253
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, NUTRITION AN INDIGENOUS MEDICINE 
Extend the Closing date of Application for the Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade 
III of Public Health Management Assistants' Service - 2018  
I, hereby declare that the closing date of the application for the above competitive examination published on the Gazette 
Notiﬁ cation No. 2075 dated 08.06.2018 has been extended up to 20.07.2018.
 J ANAKA SUGATHADASA, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
04th July, 2018.
07–631

<!-- page 14 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1848
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 “GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
 2.  All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payment s to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The of ﬁ ce hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of Advertisements. 
Post Ofﬁ ce - Borella will be the paying ofﬁ ce for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme Court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 One inch or less  
... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 One column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 Two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  The “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the ﬁ rst week of every month.
13.  All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                 ...             ...   4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) 
... ..  405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ...  860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ...  260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              
... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ...  5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ...  15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ...  ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                
... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'07'06
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2018
1849
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date speci ﬁ ed for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times speci ﬁ ed below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that suf ﬁ cient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
T
HE SCHEDULE
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2018
 JULY  06.07.2018 Friday — 22.06.2018 Friday 12 noon
  13.07.2018 Friday –– 29.06.2018 Friday 12 noon
  20.07.2018 Friday –– 06.07.2018 Friday 12 noon
  26.07.2018 Thursday –– 13.07.2018 Friday 12 noon
 AUGUST 03.08.2018 Friday — 20.07.2018 Friday 12 noon
  10.08.2018 Friday –– 26.07.2018 Thursday 12 noon
  17.08.2018 Friday –– 03.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  24.08.2018 Friday –– 10.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  31.08.2018 Friday –– 17.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
 SEPTEMBER 07.09.2018 Friday — 24.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  14.09.2018 Friday –– 31.08.2018 Friday 12 noon
  21.09.2018 Friday –– 07.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
  28.09.2018 Friday –– 14.09.2018 Friday 12 noon
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
01st January, 2018.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.