

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2259$12 - 2021 foieïn¾ ui 21 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2021'12'21
No. 2259/12  -  TUesday,  dece   mber 21,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 35623 - 15 (12/2021) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
DEPARTmENT   Of   GOvERNmENT   INfORmATION
Issuance of Official Media Accreditations for the years 2022/2023/2024
The Government has recognized in its policy statement, ‘Vistas of Prosperity and splendour’ that it is its responsibility to 
ensure a free and unhindered environment for media personnel and media institutions to enable them to perform their duty 
without restrictions. In compliance with this policy, the department of Government Information committed in creating a 
better and quality media culture in sri Lanka, henceforth would issue media accreditations to journalists with the intention 
of assisting them to engage in their career while enriching the standards of the profession and protecting the dignity of the 
trade.
    
Persons who gather news and information, edit and disseminate them over electronic, print or web media to all 
kinds of receivers are considered as journalists for the purpose of issuing media accreditations. media accreditations are 
issued only to such professional media personnel who are active in the trade.
heads of all Print and electronic media Institutions as well as sectional heads of News and current affairs are 
requested to recommend only the Professional Journalists under their supervision for media accreditation.
Heads of Media Institutions/ Chief Editors/ News Directors/ Chief Sub Editors or the authorized officers of the 
Institutions who certify the list of journalists applying for media accreditation would be held responsible for the content of 
the lists and their endorsement.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.12.2021
2a
media accreditations will be issued under following criteria for the years 2022/ 2023/ 2024, and the attention of 
relevant parties is drawn to the requirement of following documents and criteria which are essential for the issuance of 
media accreditations.
1. Journalist
2. Provincial Journalist
3. Freelance Journalist
4. Foreign Journalist (T
emporary)
5. media administrator
6. Technician
7. State Media Officer
8.
media service
01. Basic criteria and required documents
i. The media accreditation will be issued for the three years – 2022/ 2023/ 2024 and will be valid until december 31,
2024.
ii.  a pplicants should have a service record of more than six months in a recognized media Institution on a permanent
or contract basis. (Trainees are not issued with media accreditations)
iii.  a list of journalists who are eligible to apply for media accreditations should be prepared on the institute Letter
head according to the following specimen together with a request letter by the head of the media Institution/
director General/ ceO/ General manager/ chief editor/ News director or chief sub editor. The name, designation, 
signature and the official seal of the certifying officer should be included in the aforesaid letter addressed to the 
director-General of the department of Government Information.
Serial No. Name NIC No. Designation Service Unit
01.
02.
iv. The officer certifying the letter of request for Media Accreditations should place his or her signature and the official
seal on each page of the list of applicants.
v. A photocopy of the official identity card of each applicant should be endorsed as a true copy by the Department
Head and be submitted for verification. The signature and official seal of the certifying officer should be placed on
each certified copy.
vi.
When an applicant does not hold an official identity card, a photocopy of his/her letter of appointment should
be submitted with an endorsement by the officer who certified the list of names of applicants. His/her name,
designation, signature and official seal should be placed there on.
vii.
  applications for media accreditations the years 2022/ 2023/ 2024 could be downloaded from Government
Information Department’s official website www.dgi.gov.lk or Government’s Official News portal www.news.lk.
viii. In addition to the endorsement of the entire list of names, it is compulsory that each application should be certified
by the Director-General / Chief Executive Officer / General Manager / Chief Editor / News Editor / News Director /
News Manager or Chief Sub Editor by placing his or her signature and the official seal there on.
ix.
 Two clear colour photographs, 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) in size, taken within the last six months should be submitted. 
One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application. Unclear photographs and photographs of not
the prescribed size will be rejected.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.12.2021
3a
x. When issuing media accreditations to journalists who are attached to websites; special attention will be drawn to 
the following conditions: 
• Media Accreditations will be issued only to the media personnel attached to websites that disseminate 
news and report on current affairs.
• The objectives of the website and the number of subscribers, whether they are daily updated and fully 
operative etc. will be taken into consideration before issuing media accreditations to web journalists.
• The relevant website should have registration with the Ministry in charge of Mass Media for the year 2022, 
and a copy of the registration endorsed by a staff officer in charge of the subject in the Ministry of Mass 
media should be submitted along with the Web Journalists’ applications. however, the registration issued 
by the Ministry in charge of Mass Media is not the only sufficient condition to claim Media Accreditation.
• Each News and Current Affairs Website that applies for Media Accreditations should produce business 
registration documents and a copy of the same endorsed by a staff officer of the particular business 
institution, with his/ her name, signature and official seal placed there on.
• When it is felt that further references are necessary before issuing Media Accreditations to web journalists, 
the decision whether to issue media accreditations to such web journalists will be taken only after 
obtaining reports from the relevant parties with regard to such applications.
• Only the websites that are being updated continuously on a daily basis for a minimum period of six 
months are eligible to apply for media accreditations. a minimum of 35% of the content of such websites 
should specifically be news and current affairs.
• A maximum of two Media Accreditations per each language will be issued for websites.
• Only the journalists attached to Web Media entities will be issued Media Accreditations, and  Accreditations 
will not be issued to the other cadres of the organization such as chairman/ administrator/ Governor and 
director.
• Media Accreditations will be issued only to the websites that are directly engaged in dissemination of 
news. media accreditations will not be issued to institutional websites. 
xi.  special attention will be paid to the following factors when issuing media accreditations for foreign media 
Institutions.
• Media Accreditations will be issued to residential representatives / staff reporters who have been assigned 
by internationally recognized media Institutions to serve permanently in sri Lanka.
• Media Accreditations will be issued to such journalists only after the information furnished by them are 
verified from the relevant foreign media institution.
• It is compulsory for the applicant to submit his or her service letter issued by the head of his or her foreign 
media employer.
• A photocopy of his or her Passport / National Identity Card should be submitted.
• If the need arises that further references are necessary, before issuing Media Accreditations to any 
journalist, the decision to issue media accreditation to such journalists will be made only after obtaining 
reports from the relevant parties with regard to such applications. 
 
xii. The validity of media accreditations issued in 2022 will expire on december 31, 2024.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.12.2021
4a
02.  Categories of Media Accreditations - Basic criteria and documents required
i.  Journalist
 staff journalists attached to media Institutions in the Print, electronic and Web media sectors will be issued with 
Media Accreditations under the category - Journalist. The applicants should fulfil the requirements from No-i to 
No-x under serial No.01. staff journalists attached to Newspapers, Tabloid magazines, radio, Television, Websites 
and foreign media institutions come under this category.
ii.  Provincial Journalist
 a  district wise list of provincial journalists together with the following information should be submitted to the 
director-General of the department of Government Information by the relevant media Institution.
(a)  Name of the provincial journalist
(b)  National Identity card No.
(c)  Permanent address
(d)  The area and the district covered by the correspondent
(e)  Telephone No./ Nos. of the correspondent
• The list of provincial journalists should be certified by the Head of the Media Institution / Director General/ 
ceO / General manager / News director/ chief News editor / Provincial News editor or chief editor. 
The name, designation, signature and the official seal of the certifying officer should be placed on the list 
and be addressed to the director General of the department of Government Information. The signature of 
the certifying officer should be placed on each page of the list together with his or her official seal.
• The original list of names should be forwarded to the Director General of the Department of Government 
Information, and its soft copy should be emailed to media.accre@gmail.com.
• Two colour photographs, sized 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) taken within the last six months should be 
submitted along with the application. One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application.
Unclear photographs or photographs of not the prescribed size will be rejected.
• A clear photocopy of the National Identity Card / Valid Passport / Valid Driving License should be 
submitted along with the application. Incomplete applications will be rejected.
• Heads of Media Institutions, Director / Chief Editor / News Director / Provincial News Editor are requested 
to submit only the names of the reporters who are currently active in the trade.
• Applications could be downloaded from www.dgi.gov.lk or www. news.lk and the duly filled applications 
could either be sent by registered post to the director-General, department of Government Information, 
No.163, Kirulapone road, colombo 5 or handed over to the above address.
• Write on the top left-hand corner of the envelope ‘Provincial Media Accreditation’
iii. Freelance Journalist
• The applicant should have a minimum period of one-year continuous service as a Freelance Journalist in a 
nationally recognized electronic or print media institution, and have possessed the following testimonials.
• No less than 12 photocopies or CDs containing news reports / current affairs articles or programmes, 
features / entertainment programmes / photographs published under the applicant’s by-name within the 
last six months from the date of submission of the application, should be produced.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.12.2021
5a
• Along with the application submitted by freelance journalists, a letter from at least one of the media 
institutions he or she provides news, feature articles and current affairs programmes should be forwarded 
on letterhead of the relevant institution to the director General of the department of Government 
Information. It should also include the name, signature and official seal of the head of the institution / 
News director or chief editor. 
iv.    Foreign Journalist (Temporary)
• Temporary Media Accreditations will be issued to foreign journalists who arrive in Sri Lanka to cover 
special events to compile articles and to do documentary programmes that are of news and current affairs 
value.
• The applicant should submit the service letter issued by the Head of his / her Foreign Media Institution.
• The documents required to be submitted along with the application are:
i. The approval letter issued by the ministry of Foreign affairs.
ii.  his or her valid Passport.
iii.  Two colour photographs, in the size of 1"x1.5" (2.6cm x 3.7cm) taken within the last six 
months. One of them should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application.
• The Photograph of the Passport will not be accepted for this purpose.
 
v. Media Administrator
• Maximum three Media Accreditations will be issued to officers who are directly involved in media 
administration of a nationally recognized media organization.
• Media Accreditations will not be issued to Marketing Development Directors / Managers / Welfare officers 
and others who are engaged in sales promotion sectors of media Institutions.
 vi. Technical
• Media Accreditation under the category‘Technical’ will be issued to electronic media technicians who are 
directly engaged in field media activities.
• All the conditions given under aforesaid No.01 should be met by those who apply for Media Accreditations 
under the category ‘Technical’.
 
vii. Media Official
• Accreditations under the category ‘Media Official’ will be issued to Media Secretaries / Media Directors/ 
News Directors / Information Officers / Media Officers / Photographers / Video Cameramen and Media 
assistants as they have been directly recruited to such positions by statutory boards including Government 
ministries and departments.
• A letter requesting Media Accreditations for the aforesaid employees who are engaged in media activities 
in their ministries or Institutions coming under the purview of the respective ministries should be 
addressed to the director General, department of Government Information by the ministry secretary or 
the Additional Secretary. The Ministry Secretary / Additional Secretary who certifies the relevant list of 
names and designations carries the full responsibility for the authenticity of information provided there in. 
• The letter of request should carry a reference Number of the particular Government establishment and 
requests without such ref. Nos. will be rejected.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.12.2021
6a
• Media Accreditations will only be issued to employees who hold above positions in State Media Units, 
and not to others those who are attached to media Units of state Institutions.
• When Media Accreditations are applied for personnel of Media Units of Semi-Governmental institutions 
or statutory boards coming under the purview of Government ministries, such applications and the list 
of names should be endorsed by the director-General / General manager of the relevant Institution giving 
his/ her name, designation and placing his / her official seal there on.
 
viii. Media Services
• Media Accreditations under the category ‘Media Services’ will be issued to those who are involved in 
media activities that are directly connected with outdoor media coverage for News and current affairs 
Units of media Institutions.
• The applicants for Media Accreditations under this category should also meet all the conditions given 
under the aforesaid No.01.
 
General conditions
01. applications for media accreditations for the years 2022 / 2023 / 2024 will be accepted until march 
31, 2022.  applications received after the deadline and the incomplete applications will be rejected.
02. a  maximum of three, two and one media accreditations will be issued for monthly, bimonthly and 
quarterly publications, respectively.
03. media accreditations will not be issued for annual or biannual publications/ magazines.
04.  copies of the relevant magazine / publication published during the last six months and documents of 
registration with the department of National archives should be submitted to prove the continuity of 
publication. 
05. The certificate of registration issued by the Sri Lanka Press Council should be submitted in respect of 
each magazine / publication.
06.  The supplements issued with newspapers will not be considered as separate newspapers. When 
applications are made in respect of such supplements, media accreditations will be issued only in 
the name of the main newspaper.
07. It is the responsibility of the head of the media Institution to recall the media accreditation issued to 
a journalist when he / she resigns from the respective media Institution or his/her serviceis terminated 
and hand it over to the director-General of the department of Government Information.   Without 
returning the same no new media accreditation will be issued to his/her replacement. If such a 
journalist applies for media accreditation through a different media Institution without returning 
his / her previous media accreditation to the director-General of the department of Government 
Information, a new one will not be issued under his or her name.
08. In the event a media accreditation is lost, a complaint must be made to the police, and in order 
to receive a duplicate a written request must be made by the media institution concerned to the 
Director General of the Department of Government Information together with the certified original 
investigation report issued by the police. 
09. media accreditations should be used only for media activities. If it is abused or used ignoring media 
ethics, the director-General of Government Information has powers to recall or cancel such media 
accreditations.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'12'21
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 21.12.2021
7a
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
10. media accreditations are issued triennially (once every three years). Intermittent requests by media 
Institutions will not be considered, and will be rejected.
11. Honorifics or titles and academic qualifications will not be mentioned in the Media Accreditation. 
Only the name of the journalist and relevant information will be mentioned.
12. To consider granting media accreditations to cable Television Institutions, such Television channels 
should have a record of broadcasting a minimum of five news and current affairs programs per week. 
a maximum of 10 media accreditations will be issued only for the News division of each cable 
Network that fulfills the said condition. Certified copies of the license issued to the registered Cable 
Television channels by the sri Lanka Telecommunication regulatory commission and the ministry 
of mass media should be submitted along with the application.
13. The authority in making the final decision with regard to the issuance of Media Accreditations and 
effecting changes as required to the above terms and conditions and provisions is vested in the 
director-General of the department of Government Information.
14. Media Accreditations will not be issued:
i. to artistes engaged in performing art sectors such as cinema, theater and teledrama;
ii. to personnel attached to firms engaged in publicity work, advertising and video production;
iii. under pseudonyms that journalists use in reporting news and current affairs/ writing features/ 
doing programmes;
iv. to media entities that do not report news and current affairs;
v. for hand books on different subjects or publications that do not contain news or current 
affairs;
vi. for positions such as management assistant/coordinator that have no direct connection to 
mass media;
vii. for official websites of government institutions such as cabinet/State Ministries, Departments 
and other government bodies. 
15. If complaints are received about abusing the media accreditation by any print, electronic and web 
media journalist in pursuing personal interests the director-General of Information has absolute 
authority to investigate such malpractices and cancel the media accreditations of the journalist 
concerned if he/she is found guilty of violating the department’s terms and regulations.       
 
Mohan SaMaranayake,
 director General,
 department of Government Information.
21st december, 2021,
eOG - 12 - 0221