

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
INSTITUTE OF QUANTITY SURVEYORS, SRI LANKA
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 20 OF 2007
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 21st June, 2007]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 22nd, 2007

<!-- page 2 -->

1Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
[Certified on 21st June, 2007]
L.D.—O. INC 4/2005
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  INSTITUTE  OF  QUANTITY
SURVEYORS , SRI  LANKA
WHEREAS an Institute called and known as “The Institute
of Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lanka” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually  carrying
out and transacting all matters connected with the said
Institute according to the rules hitherto in force :
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters
for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE IT THEREFORE enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of Quantity
Surveyors, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.20 of 2007.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are Fellow Members and
Associate Members of the Institute of Quantity Surveyors,
Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Institute”) and
hereafter be admitted as Corporate Members of the Institute
of Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lanka shall hereafter be admitted
as Members  of the Corporation hereby Constituted
(hereinafter referred to as“the Corporation”) and shall be and
become a body corporate with perpetual succession under
the name and style of the “Institute of Quantity Surveyors,
Sri Lanka” and by that name may sue and be sued , with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and alter
the same at its pleasure.
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation of
Institute of
Quantity
Surveyors,
Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be —
(a) to protect and promote the interests, status, welfare,
rights and privileges of the profession and interest of
the public in relation to the profession of Quantity
Surveyors ;
(b) to advise and communicate with public authorities
on matters relating to Quantity Surveying ;
(c) to arbitrate any dispute on Quantity Surveying which
may be referred to the Corporation ;
(d) to organize lectures and discussions and to publish
books and other materials in order to disseminate
the knowledge on Quantity Surveying and related
subjects ;
(e) to encourage the study of law and practice relating
to Quantity Surveying ;
(f) to create and offer awards and prizes for achievements
in the field of Quantity Surveying ;
(g) to organize, supervise and control the admission to
membership of the Corporation, to undertake and
regulate the professional education and training of
persons desiring to do Quantity Surveying, to
prescribe and approve courses of studies and
qualifying examinations for membership of the
Corporation, to conduct or provide for the
conducting of such courses and examinations and to
collaborate with recognized educational institutions
for the furtherance of education in the field of
Quantity Surveying ; and
(h) to prescribe the qualifications and disqualifications
for membership of the Corporation and the standards
of professional conduct for members of the
Corporation and to secure adherence thereto.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power —
(a) to establish and maintain a library and the collection
of maps, models, drawings, designs and other
materials and to improve the same;
(b) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise
alienate, encumber or dispose of any immovable
property for the purpose of the Corporation ;
(c) to publish journals, monographs, books and
periodicals for disseminating information on
Quantity Surveying ;
(d) to collaborate with, assist, receive assistance from,
and develop links with, other persons, agencies and
organizations in Sri Lanka or abroad, having objects
similar to those of the Corporation ;
(e) to accept any gift, endowment or bequest and to carry
out any trusts attached to any such gift, endowment
or bequest ;
(f) to appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss, officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation and to prescribe their terms and
conditions of services ;
(g) to borrow any moneys required for the purposes of
the Corporation upon such terms and on such
securities as the Corporation may think fit ;
(h) to invest its funds, create and administer trusts and to
maintain current, deposit and savings accounts in
any Bank ; and
(i) to do all such lawful things as are incidental or
conducive to the attainment of the objects of the
Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions
of this Act and rules to be made under the Act, be vested  in a
Governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “the Council”)
consisting of office bearers and such other members as may
be elected or appointed in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation, to be made in compliance with the provisions
of the section 7 of this Act.
(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall consist of
the members of the Council of the Institute holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. The Council shall maintain a Register of Members in
which every person who on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act is a member of the Institute and
every person duly admitted a member of the Corporation
shall  have his name inscribed.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two- thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, and
any other written law for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by each
class of members and procedure to be followed in
the admission, withdrawal, expulsion or resignation
of members ;
(b) constitution and election of the Council, term of
office, resignation or removal from office or vacation
of office of the office bearers, and powers, duties and
Functions of the Council ;
(c) powers, duties and functions of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Corporation and
their appointment, remuneration, dismissal and
termination of office ;
Register of
Members.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
(d) the procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and the
Council and any sub-committee thereof, including
the quorum therefor and the conduct of business
thereat ;
(e) qualification and disqualification for membership
in the Corporation and in the Council ;
(f) administration and management of the property of
the Corporation; and
(g) generally for management of the affairs of the
Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under this section.
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall, upon the
coming into operation of this Act, be subject to the rules to
be made from time to time by the Corporation.
8. All property, movable and immovable, acquired or
held by the Corporation and all moneys paid to or received
by the Corporation under this Act shall be held, used and
applied by the Corporation in accordance with the rules to
be made under section 7 of this Act for the furtherance of its
objects.
9. The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received hitherto or hereafter by way of gift, bequest,
donation, subscription and contribution, by and on account
of the Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the
Corporation in one or more banks as the Council shall
determine.
10. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books of
account to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and other transactions of the Corporation.
Property of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practise as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
(5) The Annual Report of the Council shall include the
statement of accounts, the balance sheet and the auditors
report prepared for a period of twelve months commencing
on the first day of April each year and ending on the thirty-
first day of March of the following year.
11. The financial year of the Corporation shall
commence on first day of April in each year and end on
thirty-first day of March in the following year.
12. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid or discharged by the Corporation and all debts
due to, and subscriptions and fees payable to the Institute on
that day, shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Institute.
Financial Year.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
13. (1) Every member of the Corporation who possess the
qualifications specified in the rules to be made under section
7 of this Act, shall be entitled to take and use the title
“Chartered Quantity Surveyor”.
(2) Every member of the Corporation, who is registered
as a Fellow Member shall be entitled to use the abbreviated
designation “F.I.Q.S.SL” after his name.
(3) Every member of the Corporation who is registered as
an Associate Member of the Corporation shall be entitled to
use the abbreviated designation “A.I.Q.S.SL” after his name.
(4) Where majority of the partners or directors of a firm or
Company of Quantity Surveyors who possess the
qualifications to be specified in the rules to be made under
section 7 of this Act, are members of the Corporation, such
firm or Company may be permitted by the Council to use the
title “Chartered Quantity Surveyor” or “Chartered Quantity
Surveyors” as the case may be, upon a request made in that
behalf by such firm or company to the Council.
14. The Council may appoint Attorneys-at-law, Bankers
of the Corporation, any agent or such other persons as may be
required for the purposes of the Corporation and may rescind
such appointments  at any time.
15. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Council who may be duly
authorised by the Council and another member of the Council
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of their
presence and such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.
16. No Member of the Corporation shall, for the
purpose of discharging the debts and liabilities of the
Corporation, or for any other purpose, be liable to make
any contribution exceeding the amount of annual
subscription payable by him to the Corporation.
Use of titles.
Attorneys -at-
law, bankers and
agents.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
The seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Institute of Quantity Surveyors Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007
17. In the event of the dissolution or winding up
of the Corporation, if there remains after the satisfaction
of all its debts and liabilities and outgoings, any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members   of the Corporation but the same shall
be given or transferred at the discretion of the Council to
some institute or institutes having objects similar to the
objects of the Corporation and which is or are by the rules
thereof prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its or their members. If such property or any part thereof
cannot be disposed of in accordance with the foregoing
provisions of this section such property or part thereof
shall be applied to some charitable object which shall
be determined by the Council of the Corporation.
18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate, or any other persons.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Dissolution or
winding up.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 10 -->

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT   INFORMATION ,  NO . 163,  KIRULAPONA  MAWETHA , COLOMBO  05  before  15th  December
  each year in respect of the year following.