

<!-- page 1 -->

5Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
DEBT CONCILIATION (AMENDMENT)
ACT, N O . 29 OF 1999
[Certified on 17th  September , 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  September 17, 1999.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs.4.50 Postage: Rs.3.50
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999
[Certified on 17th  September , 1999]
L. D. - O . 22/97.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  DEBT  CONCILIATION  ORDINANCE
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Debt Conciliation
(Amendment) Act, No.29 of 1999.
2. Section 19A  of the Debt Conciliation Ordinance
(Chapter 81) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is heredy amended as follows :-
(1) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section, of the following new subsection :-
“(1
A ) The Board shall not entertain any
application by a debtor or creditor in respect of a
debt purporting to be secured by any such transfer
of immovable property as is a mortgage within the
meaning of this Ordinance, unless that application
is made within three years of the date of the
notarially executed instrument, effecting such
 transfer :
Provided that nothing in this subsection shall
be read or construed as preventing the Board from
entertaining, after the period referred to in that
subsection, an application by a debtor who is in
possession of the Property transferred ; and
(2) by the substitution in subsection (2) of that
section for the words and figures “subsection (1)”
of the words and figures “subsection (1) or
subsection (1
A )”.
3. Section  19B   of  the  principal enactment  is   hereby
amended by the substitution for the words and figures
“subsection (1) of that section” , of the words and figures
“subsection (1) or subsection (1
A ) of that section”.
Short title.
Amendment of
section 19A  of the
Debt Conciliation
Ordinance
(Chapter 81.)
Amendment of
section 19
B
of the
principal
enactment.
H- 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999
4. Section 21A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :-
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection
(1) of that section
(2) in the renumbered subsection (1) of that section -
(a) by the repeal of all the words from “In any
proceeding under this Ordinance” to “ the
following matters :-” and the substitution
therefor of the following :-
“In any proceedings under this Ordinance in
regard to an application relating to a transfer or
conditional transfer of immovable property, the
Board shall, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in section 2 of  the Prevention of Frauds
Ordinance (Chapter 70), or sections 91 and 92 of
the Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14) and for the
purpose of deciding whether or not such
transfer or conditional transfer is in reality a
mortgage, take into consideration all the
circumstances of the case and in particular the
following matters :- ”;
(b)  in paragraph (d) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “a legally
enforceable agreement” of the words “any
agreement in whatever form  ; and
(3) by the addition of the end of that section of the
following new subsection :-
“(2) The burden of adducing evidence to show
that a transfer of immovable property is in reality
a mortgage shall be on the transferor”.
5. Section 32 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal of all
the words from “ the Board shall dismiss the application” to
“ may , if it is ”, and the substitution therefor of the following
words “ the Board may, if it is”.
Amendment of
section 32 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section
21
A  of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999
6. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (b) of that section, and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraph :-
“(b) a creditor shall be allowed, notwith
standing any thing to the contrary in any other
law, as interest such sum as appears to the Board
to be reasonable, having regard to all the
circumstances of the case.”.
7. Section 39 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that section,
by the substitution, for the words “may notwithstanding that
the” of  the words” “shall, notwithstanding that the”.
8. Section 64 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :-
(1) by the substitution in the definition of “creditor” ,
for the words “a conditional transfer of immovable
property”, of the words “a transfer or conditional
transfer of  immovable property”; and
(2) by the substitution, in the definition of “mortgage”,
for the words “any conditional transfer of such
property” of the words “any transfer or conditional
transfer of such property”.
9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Amendment of
section 33 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 39  of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 64 of the
principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , No. 32,
T RANSWORKS  H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect
                                                  of the year following.