

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 573
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 558
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"112 – 2019 fmnrjdß ui 22 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'02'22
No. 2,112 –  FRiday ,  FEbRuaRy 22, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th March, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st March, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
555-b 81498- 5,403 (02/2019)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
556
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
557
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
558
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrars births, Deaths and (General) marriages/Additional Registrar of (General), 
marriages Tamil medium
 
JaFFNa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of births, deaths and Marriages/additional Registrar of in the 
divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
1. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
2. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
3. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
4. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced person 
or Widow/Widower.
5.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies as given in the following 
Schedule. 
6. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agent's office) or Land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariats 
of the district. 
7. Duly filled applications shall be posted to the address mention in the Schedule on or before 15th March, 2019 
by Register Post.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 28th January, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretary's Division
Division and Post  for which  Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Jaffna uduvil Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of 
Vali-South division (tamil)
the district Secretary/the Govt. 
agent/the addl. Registrar General, 
district Secretariat, Jaffna
Jaffna uduvil Post of Registrar of births and deaths of 
Erlalai division and Marriages (General) of 
Vali -South division (tamil)
the district Secretary/the Govt. 
agent/the addl. Registrar General, 
district Secretariat, Jaffna
02–641

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
559
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
vacancies for Newly Established
Communication Department
iN recent years, the work of the Parliament of Sri Lanka 
has become more accessible and transparent. Hundreds of 
thousands of people, including school children visit the 
Parliament each year. With the passage of new standing 
orders of Parliament committee system has been expanded 
with a number of new committees to be established shortly. 
these committees will welcome public representation and 
participation, which may draw even greater focus on the 
work of Parliament. 
Newly established department of communication 
comprised with qualified professionals is a key to assure 
that highest standards of information on Parliament can be 
effectively communicated to the people of Sri Lanka thereby 
strengthening the concept of public outreach as well. 
Hence, suitable candidates are hereby invited from the 
citizens of Sri Lanka who are having required experience 
and necessary qualifications for the following vacancies 
at the department of communication on the Staff of the 
Secretary-General of Parliament.
1. Post of Director Communication (Contract basis)
 No. of vacancies – 01
Job Description
The ideal candidate will refine and deliver a 
communication strategy across the entire spectrum of 
communication disciplines including media, visitor 
services, public relations, brand marketing, advertising, 
digital/social media and production of materials.
He or she will:
• Pro-actively manage media profile and presence, 
identifying opportunities for engagement and 
designing communication plans, 
• Build and maintain excellent relationships with 
internal parliamentary staff and with external 
stakeholders,
• Ensure staff and parliamentarians are supported 
in planning for public affairs and parliamentary 
work, being creative in suggesting innovative 
and impactful ways we can use political and 
parliamentary tools and structures to achieve 
Parliament’s aims,
• Support the Communication team and wider 
organization in capturing and representing 
individuals’ experiences of parliamentary 
oversight, developing good legislation and policy 
and making sure this is represented in public affairs 
and parliamentary work,
• Help resource communication work by managing 
internal and external suppliers of information and 
research.
• Oversee the Media Manager and Public Outreach 
Manager, along with 19 Public Outreach Officers 
and Media Officers, Public Outreach Coordinators 
/Media coordinators liaising with communications 
implementation in other departments.
 • Sign-off on public comments, entailing some out-
of-hours work, as well as summarized research and 
publications for public dissemination,
• Oversee major events, including logistics, 
marketing and press, 
• Lead on advocacy for meaningful tours and 
outreach, audio-visual materials, including 
producing videos, photos, podcasts of events and 
other Parliament activities,
• Harmonize visitor and support services to Members 
of Parliament, the general public and other staff 
within the parliamentary precinct and into regional 
Sri Lanka, and
• Managing Parliament’s visitor centre and gift 
shops.
  Personal Specifications 
Essential
• Leads team members of the Communication 
department to execute all communication, 
outreach, public education and production activities 
of the Parliament.
• Develops, reviews and implements strategic plans 
for the communication department to facilitate the 
achievement of the Parliament’s vision.
• Analyzes stakeholder research findings as part of 
developing a compelling vision for the Parliament.
• Establishes a knowledge management system 
to facilitate continuity at each level of the 
communication department.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
560
• Identifies and implements effective techniques for 
fostering public participation in the Parliamentary 
process.
• Manages relations, and builds relationships with 
key industry media.
• Builds and maintains strong relationships with 
internal and external key stakeholders to ensure 
proper dissemination of the communication and 
Public outreach services of the Parliament.
• Advances an interactive and technologically based 
media to build communication between the public 
and parliament and parliamentary representatives.
Competencies
• Strong communicator with excellent command 
of spoken and written Sinhala or tamil and 
English, plus an understanding of tamil or 
Sinhala.
• Communication management experience and 
competency.
• Experience of managing people.
• Experience of working in partnership with 
other organizations.
• Possess an understanding of the needs of 
parliamentarians and people engaging with 
Parliament.
• Creative and visionary leadership with the 
ability to drive a high volume of work to 
completion.
• Effective organizational skills displaying close 
attention to detail, strong inter-personal skills 
and strategic thinking.
• Ability to work independently and as part of a 
small team, while communicating effectively 
at senior management and director across all 
of Parliament.
• Experience of strategic and operational 
decision – making.
• Ability to be politically impartial.
• A commitment to work in accordance with the 
principles of equality and diversity.
• A flexible approach and willingness to learn 
and develop.
• IT and social media literate with practical 
Web, video and copy editing skills.
Age Limit.– Not applicable. 
 
Educational Qualifications and Experiences :
1. a  Master’s degree in Mass communication or 
Marketing from recognized university or from 
a degree awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grant commission with mininum of 
five years of professional experience in marketing, 
outreach, Visitor and communication leadership 
roles ;             
or
2. bachelor’s degree in business Management 
(Marketing), bachelor’s degree in business 
administration, bachelor’s degree in Marketing 
Management (Special), bachelor’s degree in 
arts (communication, Mass communication, 
Public Relations and Media Management, 
communication & creative arts and Sociology 
as a subject), Bachelor’s degree in  Hospitality 
and Leisure Management, bachelor’s degree in 
Journalism from recognized university or from 
a degree awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grant commission with ten years of 
professional experience in marketing, outreach, 
Visitor and communication leadership roles ;                             
or
3. t wenty years of professional experience in 
marketing, outreach, Visitor and communication 
leadership roles.
(Preference will be given to those who possess 
recent experience in media, communication, 
Journalism or Event Management) 
Selection Process.– through a structural interview 
conducted by a board of interviewers appointed by the 
Secretary General of Parliament to review educational 
qualifications, professional qualifications and subject related 
knowledge, experience in the field, communication skills 
and the personality of the candidate.
Salary scale.– Remuneration will  be paid as based on the 
Management Services Salary circular 06/2016 together with 
Parliament approved other allowances which will be not less 
than Rs.135,000/= per month. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
561
Other benefits :
Fully maintained vehicle with a limited private mileage.
Conditions of Service :
it is initially expected to recruit a suitable person on a 
contract basis for one year and extension of so-selected 
period will be considered on being achieved expected 
objectives and performance of the Department within 
such period. the selected candidate will have to sign 
the contract agreement with appointing authority.
 
2. Post of media manager
No. of vacancies – 01
Job Description
the ideal candidate should manage the operations and 
strategic direction of Parliament Media centre making 
sure the Parliament is heard and branded with clear 
consistent voice.
 
He or she will: 
• Design and carry out strategic media 
relationship.
• Be able to identify opportunities for 
engagement and designing media plan.
• Act as editor of annual reports, website and 
blogs, commissioning and editing articles 
from researches and experts on Parliament 
issues.
• Oversee Postal and electronic mailouts.
• Work with other departments on the 
development and management of the website 
and blog.
• Manage and expand social media presence, 
sourcing and sharing newsworthy information 
from across the parliament. 
• Enhance the Parliament’s profile across media, 
and with influencers and organizations
• Produce press releases, articles and statements
• Supervise and advise other team members in 
their drafting of communication plans and 
statements
• Work with inter-departments to provide an 
understanding of Parliament's work to the 
general public.
• Analyse all aspects of communications on 
a quarterly basis and prepare a report to be 
submitted to the Management. 
Personal Specification 
Essential
• Experience in Media management.
• Excellent communication skills, proven in 
both writing and verbally.
• Experience in managing communication 
campaign.
• Experience of working in partnership with 
other organizations
• Effective organizational skills
• Ability to work independently and as part of a 
small team
• An ability to deliver effective presentations
• A flexible approach and willingness to learn 
and develop
• Sound Knowledge on the social media and its 
operational techniques
Competencies
•  Significant experience of supporting the 
communication objectives of a high-profile public 
figure and/or organization through providing 
communication advice and delivery.
• A successful track record of proactive and reactive 
media planning and delivery working with national, 
regional and local media.
• Experience of drafting media articles, audio visual 
productions, online content and other written 
materials for a high-profile organization.
• Ability to contribute to the delivery of the 
Parliament’s communication strategy.
• Having good understanding of the Parliament, and 
the political environment in which it operates.
• Willingness to be part of the Press & Media Team's 
out-of-hours media service.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
562
• Excellent communication skills both orally and in 
writing.
• Strong team worker, with the ability to 
work effectively with colleagues across the 
administration, Parliament and external 
stakeholders.
• Ability to be politically impartial.
• Experienced in the use of the Microsoft Office 
suite of software.
Age Limit :
Should be not more than 40 years of age as at the closing 
date for applications.
Educational Qualifications and Experiences :
1. bachelor’s degree in Visual arts (Special) in 
Multimedia arts or  bachelor’s degree in Visual 
arts (Special) in Visual communication design 
from recognized university or from a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the university 
Grant commission with ten years of professional 
experience in similar capacity ;
or
2. bachelor’s degree in arts (communication, Mass 
communication, Mass Media, Public Relations & 
Media Management, communication & creative 
Arts, Sociology and Political Science as a subject) 
from recognized university or from a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the university 
Grant commission with ten years of professional 
experience in similar capacity ;
or
3. bachelor’s degree in Journalism from recognized 
university or from a degree awarding institution 
recognized by the university Grant commission 
with ten years of professional experience in 
similar capacity.
(Preference will be given to those who possess recent 
experience in Journalism or Mass communication)
Selection Process :
through a structural interview conducted by a board 
of interviewers appointed by the Secretary General 
of Parliament to review educational qualifications, 
professional qualifications and subject related 
knowledge, experience in the field, communication 
skills and the personality of the candidate.
Salary Scale :
according to the Schedule i of the Management 
Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016 monthly 
salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 58,295 – 3 x 
1,335 / 8 x 1,630 / 2 x 2,170 – 79,680. the selected 
candidates will be placed initially at the monthly salary 
step of Rs.52,255/= according to the schedule ii of the 
circular mentioned above. (the minimum initial gross 
monthly remuneration together with all the allowances 
will be approximately Rs. 110,000.00) 
3. Post of Public Outreach manager
      No. of vacancies – 01
    
Job Description
the ideal candidate should lead the newly restructured 
Public outreach team at the Parliament of Sri Lanka. 
He or she will:
• Welcome visitors from around the world into the 
Parliament and the new Visitor centre
• Develop and train our Visitor Officers of Parliament 
to deliver inspiring tours and public  engagement 
activities 
• Manage the day to day operations of the team 
including the delivery of the tours programme
• Offer meaningful and rich visit experiences to all 
audiences, including Sri Lanka citizens, overseas 
visitors and those who are disengaged from 
mainstream politics
• Support all public engagement activity from events 
to talks and tour content 
• Establish mock parliament and meaningful 
activities at the Visitor centre
• Establish an interim Parliament Museum at the 
Visitor centre
• Ensure Souvenir Shops augment the 
communications strategy
• Ensure day-to-day cohesion with Protocol activities
• Ensure the Parliament Gift Shop can provide 
quality gifts for official gifts used by Protocol

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
563
• Manage and innovate public engagement such as 
introducing special events, wedding photography 
etc bookings in the grounds and exteriors
• Oversee the development of a mobile parliament 
outreach module
• Liaise with the Education Ministry’s School 
Parliament programme, education bodies and 
schools to enhance student civic engagement at 
Parliament.
 Personal Specifications:
Essential:
• Good Communication and Presentation skills
• A genuine interest in democracy
• Passion for working with people and delivering 
the best possible customer service 
• A desire for learning new things and explore 
new knowledge
• Having a desire to problem solving
• To create enthusiasm for team work and the 
ability to guide people not to give orders  
• A good understanding of community 
engagement work
Competencies
• Experience in managing a team of Visitor 
officers and overseing their induction, training 
and ongoing development
• Ability to make operational decisions 
concerning visitor access and ensure that 
services are delivered effectively
• Experience in monitoring the content and 
quality of all tours and talks and to taking 
action to address any issues
• Having a vase knowledge in  leading  the 
content development of a rich portfolio of 
tours and talks including the incorporation of 
key messages
• Experience in guiding visitors, providing 
information and assisting them to their 
destinations, managing any specific access 
requirements 
Age Limit :
Should be not more than 40 years of age as at the closing 
date for applications
Educational Qualifications and Experiences :
1. bachelor’s degree in Hospitality and Leisure 
Management from recognized university or from 
a degree awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grant commission with ten years of 
professional experience in similar capacity
or
2. bachelor’s degree in  Hospitality Management 
(special) from recognized university or from a 
degree awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grant commission with ten years of 
professional experience in similar capacity
or
3. bachelor’s degree in Hospitality, tourism and 
Event Management from recognized university or 
from a degree awarding institution recognized by 
the university Grant commission with ten years 
of professional experience in similar capacity
or
4. bachelor’s degree in arts (Public Relations 
& Media Management and communication 
& Creative Arts as a subject) from recognized 
university or from a degree awarding institution 
recognized by the university Grant commission 
with ten years of professional experience in 
similar capacity.
or
5. bachelor’s degree in Journalism from recognized 
university or from a degree awarding institution 
recognized by the university Grant commission 
with ten years of professional experience in 
similar capacity.
(Preference will be given to those who possess experience 
in Event Management) 
Selection Process :
through a structural interview conducted by a board 
of interviewers  appointed by the Secretary General 
of Parliament to review educational qualifications, 
professional qualifications and subject related 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
564
knowledge, experience in the field, communication 
skills and the personality of the candidate.
Salary Scale :
according to the Schedule i of the Management 
Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016 monthly 
salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 58,295 – 3 x 
1,335 / 8 x 1,630 / 2 x 2,170 – 79,680. the selected 
candidates will be placed initially at the monthly salary 
step of Rs.52,255/= according to the schedule ii of the 
circular mentioned above. (the minimum initial gross 
monthly remuneration together with all the allowances 
will be approximately Rs. 110,000.00) 
4.   Post of Media Officer 
No. of vacancies – 06 
Media Officer(Sinhala)  - 02
Media Officer (Tamil)    - 02
Media Officer (English)  - 02
Job Description
the ideal candidate should be responsible for planning, 
drafting, monitoring various parliament communications 
mediums and issues including managing a particular 
language service and ensuring there is consistency with 
the work of other language media officers and seeking 
opportunities to influence key decision-makers.
He or She will: 
 • Work on all our public affairs activity,
 • Draft news, feature and blog materials 
 • Feed information to  website of Parliament and social 
media accounts
 • Assisting with events and keep relations with media 
and administrative work. 
 Personal Specification
Essential
 
• A strong interest in politics and desire for learning 
how strategic communications can help to effect 
change. 
• Ability to build good relationships and co-operates 
with others
• Identify the barriers to effective working  relationships.
• Excellent verbal communication skills 
• Calmness and resilience under pressure.
• Willingness to work flexibly
• Excellent time management skills and ability to work 
tight deadlines.
Competencies :
• Good computer skills and experience using Word, 
Excel and Power Point.
• Good office management skills, including the ability 
to maintain electronic and paper records.
• Experience in adapting the style of communication to 
meet the needs of the audience, including Members 
and senior colleagues. 
• Experience in planning, prioritizing and monitoring 
tasks in a systematic and organized manner. 
Age Limit :
 Should be not more than 35 years of age as at the closing 
date for applications. 
 Educational Qualifications and Experiences :
1. bachelor’s degree in Visual arts (Special) in 
Multimedia arts or  bachelor’s degree in Visual 
arts (Special) in Visual communication design 
from recognized university or from a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the university 
Grant commission with three years of professional 
experience in similar capacity ;
or
2. bachelor’s degree in arts (communication, Mass 
communication, Mass Media, Public Relations & 
Media Management, communication & creative 
Arts, Sociology and Political Science as a subject) 
recognized university or from a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the university Grant 
commission with three years of professional 
experience in similar capacity ;
or
3. bachelor’s degree in Journalism recognized 
university or from a degree awarding institution 
recognized by the university Grant commission 
with three years of professional experience in similar 
capacity.
 (Preference will be given to those who possess recent 
experience in Journalism or Mass communication)

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
565
Selection Process :
through a structural interview conducted by a board 
of interviewers appointed by the Secretary General 
of Parliament to review educational qualifications, 
professional qualifications and subject related 
knowledge, experience in the field, communication 
skills and the personality of the candidate.
Salary Scale :
according to the Schedule i of the Management 
Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016 monthly 
salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 34,605 –                                             
9 x 660 /3 x 755 – 42,810. the selected candidates 
will be placed initially at the monthly salary step of 
Rs. 31,028 according to the schedule ii of the circular 
mentioned above. (the minimum initial gross monthly 
remuneration together with all the allowances will be 
approximately Rs. 63,000.00)
5. Post of Public Outreach Officer 
No. of vacancies – 06
Public Outreach Officer (Sinhala)  - 02
Public Outreach Officer (Tamil)  - 02
Public Outreach Officer (English)  - 02
Job Description
the ideal candidate should take care of visitors to 
Parliament of Sri Lanka from around the world 
He or She will:
 •  Welcome the visitors to Parliament and help them to 
find their way to where they need to be
 •  Deliver a programme of inspiring and engaging tours 
on both Parliament and the history and heritage of the 
building 
 •  Offer meaningful and rich visit experiences to all 
audiences, including Sri Lanka citizens, school 
students, overseas visitors and those who are 
disengaged from mainstream politics
 •  Support all public engagement activity from events to 
talks and tour content 
 •  Lead by example by working collaboratively and 
proactively, and delivering a range of tours and talks
Essential :
• Be proficient verbally and in written skills in at least 
one of Sri Lanka’s national languages; expertise in 
the other two languages will be advantageous                 
•  Excellent organizational skills and ability to juggle 
multiple projects simultaneously, while maintaining a 
high degree of accuracy and professionalism.
• Excellent time management and prioritizing skills; 
ability to work to tight deadlines.
• Good computer skills and experience using Word, 
Excel and Power Point.
Competencies :
• Ability to build good relationships and co-operates 
with others. 
• Ability to adapt style of communication to meet the 
needs of the audience, including Members and senior 
colleagues. Provides clear direction and checks for 
understanding, to encourage positive outcomes.
• Plans, prioritizes and monitors tasks in a systematic 
and organized way. 
• Good office management skills, including the ability 
to maintain electronic and paper records.
Age Limit :
Should be not more than 35 years of age as at the closing 
date for applications. 
Educational Qualifications and Experiences :
1. bachelor’s degree in Hospitality and Leisure 
Management from recognized university or from 
a degree awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grant commission with three years of 
professional experience in similar capacity
or
2. bachelor’s degree in  Hospitality Management 
(special) from recognized university or from a 
degree awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grant commission with three years of 
professional experience in similar capacity
 or
3. bachelor’s degree in Hospitality, tourism and 
Event Management from recognized university 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
566
or from a degree awarding institution recognized 
by the university Grant commission with three 
years of professional experience in similar 
capacity
or
4. bachelor’s degree in arts (Public Relations 
& Media Management and communication 
& Creative Arts as a subject) from recognized 
university or from a degree awarding institution 
recognized by the university Grant commission 
with three years of professional experience in 
similar capacity.
or
5. bachelor’s degree in Journalism from recognized 
university or from a degree awarding institution 
recognized by the university Grant commission 
with three years of professional experience in 
similar capacity.
Selection Process :
through a structural interview conducted by a board 
of interviewers appointed by the Secretary General 
of Parliament to review educational qualifications, 
professional qualifications and subject related 
knowledge, experience in the field, communication skills 
and the personality of the candidate.
 Salary Scale :
according to the Schedule i of the Management Services 
circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016 monthly salary scale 
specified for this post is Rs. 34,605 – 9 x 660 /3 x 755 – 
42,810. the selected candidates will be placed initially 
at the monthly salary step of Rs. 31,028 according 
to the schedule ii of the circular mentioned above.                                                                                  
(the minimum initial gross monthly remuneration 
together with all the allowances will be approximately 
Rs. 63,000.00)
      General Terms and Conditions :
1. these posts are permanent except the post of 
director(communication) 
2. Pension entitlement pertaining to permanent posts 
will be determined according to the policy decisions 
taken by the Government in future. appointment 
will be made subject to three-year (3) probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed in 
permanent, pensionable post is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of one 
year.
3. Selected candidates will be subject to Financial and 
departmental Regulations applicable to the staff of 
the Secretary General of Parliament.
4. Selected candidates should contribute to Widows’ 
and orphans’/Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension 
Fund from his / her salary with a percentage 
specified by the government. Selected candidates 
will be subjected to a medical examination. 
5. a  Security  clearance Report in respect of the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.  
6. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals)  to their applications.  
Originals of the certificates should be produced, 
only when called upon to do so.  
(a) Birth Certificate.
(b) Certificates of Educational qualifications.
(c) Certificates confirming professional 
qualifications.
(d) Certificates confirming experience.
7. applicants serving in the Public Service should 
send their applications through relevant Heads of 
departments / institutions.
8. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification 
for this post.
9. any information in the application found to be 
incorrect disclosed before selection will render 
the applicant liable for disqualification, and to 
dismissal, if discovered after appointment.
10. applications received after the closing date or sent 
without copies of the above mentioned certificates 
or not sent through Heads of departments / 
Institutions will be rejected. Applications sent 
through Heads of departments /institutions but 
received after the closing date, and applications 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen form 
will also be rejected. 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
567
11. applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura kotte" on or before 
15th March 2019. the term of the respective post should be indicated  on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. 
(this notice is accessible via www.parliament.lk)
 W. b. d. daSaNayake,
 Secretary-General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,    
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte,
22nd February, 2019.
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
PoSt of direCtor CommuNiCatioN / media maNager/ PubliC outreaCh maNager
PoSt oF diREctoR coMMuNicatioN MEdia MaNaGER PubLic.outREacH 
  MaNaGER
(Please mark () in appropriate cage.  if you apply for more than one post use another application)
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :  ...................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................................................................................
  (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/tamil):  ........................................................................................................
    ……. ........................................................................................................................................................................
  (c) Full Name (in block capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss : ......................................................................................................
     .................................................................................................................................................................................
02. National identity card Number : 
03.  (a) Private address : ......................................................................................................................................................
     .................................................................................................................................................................................
   t elephone No. :..........................................
  (b) Official Address : ..................................................................................................................................................... 
     .................................................................................................................................................................................
   t elephone No. :..........................................
  (c) Please indicate the address for the letter to be posted
   Private                              Office
  
04.  (i) date of birth :  ....................................................................... ( A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
  (ii) age as at 15 March 2019: years :................................ Months :................................  days :................................ 
05.   civil Status:  …………………………………………………………………………………… 
06.   Sex : …………………………………..
07.   State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka : …………………………………..

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
568
08.   Higher Educational Qualifications (please tick () in the correct box)
  (Copy of the degree certificate along with the transcript should be attached)
Degree University Year
(a) Master in Mass communication            
or Marketing
(b) bachelor’ s degree in
i. business 
Management(Marketing)
ii. business 
administration(Marketing)
iii. Marketing 
Management(Special)
iv. Visual arts(sp.) Multimedia 
arts
v. Visual arts(sp.) Visual 
communication design
vi. Hospitality & Leisure 
Management
vii. Hospitality 
Management(special)
viii. Hospitality, tourism & Event 
Management
ix. Journalism
(c) bachelor’ s degree in arts with one 
of the following subject
(a) communication
(b) Mass Media
(c) Mass communication
(d) Public Relations & Media 
Management
(e) communication & creative 
arts
(f) Sociology
(g) Political Science
 
 (d) other :  ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………..
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
   (related to media, communication, journalism, outreach, event management or marketing)
09.  Professional Qualifications (copies of the certificates should be attached) :  ....................................................................
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
 ..........................................................................................................................................................................................

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
569
10. Experience (copies of the certificates should be attached)  :…………………………………………………………… 
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
 No. of years:  ....................................................................................................................................................................
 
 areas – (please tick( ) in the correct box)
  (i) Marketing
  (ii) outreach
  (iii) Visitor Management
  (iv) communication
  (v) Leadership 
11.  details of current Employment:
 (a) Name and address of the institution :  .......................................................................................................................
 (b) Date of first Appointment : .........................................................................................................................................
 (c) Present Post :  .............................................................................................................................................................
 (d) Monthly basic Salary : ................................................................................................................................................
 (e) allowances :  ...............................................................................................................................................................
 (f) Gross Salary : .............................................................................................................................................................
12.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a court of Law? : ............................................................................
  if yes, give details:  .......................................................................................................................................................... 
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
13.  Have you served under the Government before? : ........................................................................................................... 
if yes, give details:  ...........................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware 
that,  I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment. 
...........................................................
Signature of the applicant.
date: .........................................
Certification of Head of Department/Institution 
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Government Corporations/
Statutory Boards) 
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /Miss …………………………….............................. holding 
the post of ................................................................................................ in this institution. i certify that his/her work and 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
570
conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is no intention to make 
such inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.   
  ...........................................................
  Signature of Head of department/institution
  (Official Stamp)
date: .........................................
PaRLiaMENt oF SRi LaNKa
PoSt of media offiCer/PubliC outreaCh offiCer
 (Please mark () in appropriate cage.  if you apply for more than one post use another application)
PoSt oF MEdia oFFicER PubLic.outREacH  MaNaGER Sinhala
  tamil
  English 
01.  (a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :  ...................................................................................................................
..................................................................................................................................................................................
  (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/tamil):  ........................................................................................................
    ……. ........................................................................................................................................................................
  (c) Full Name (in block capitals): Mr./Mrs./Miss : ......................................................................................................
     .................................................................................................................................................................................
02. National identity card Number : 
03.  (a) Private address : ......................................................................................................................................................
     .................................................................................................................................................................................
   t elephone No. :..........................................
  (b) Official Address : ..................................................................................................................................................... 
     .................................................................................................................................................................................
   t elephone No. :..........................................
  (c) Please indicate the address for the letter to be posted
   Private                              Office
  
04.  (i) date of birth :  ....................................................................... ( A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
  (ii) age as at 15 March 2019: years :................................ Months :................................  days :................................ 
05.   civil Status:  …………………………………………………………………………………… 
06.   Sex : …………………………………..
07.   State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka : …………………………………..

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
571
08.   Higher Educational Qualifications (please tick () in the correct box)
  (Copy of the degree certificate along with the transcript should be attached)
Degree University Year
(a) bachelor’ s degree in
i. business Management (Marketing) ................................................. ......................
ii. business administration (Marketing) ................................................. ......................
iii. Marketing Management (Special) ................................................. ......................
iv. Visual arts (sp.) Multimedia arts ................................................. ......................
v. Visual arts (sp.) Visual communication               
design
................................................. ......................
vi. Hospitality & Leisure Management ................................................. ......................
vii. Hospitality Management (special) ................................................. ......................
viii. Hospitality, tourism & Event Management ................................................. ......................
ix. Journalism ................................................. ......................
(b) bachelor’ s degree in arts with one of the                    
following subject
 
(a) communication ................................................. ......................
(b) Mass Media ................................................. ......................
(c) Mass communication ................................................. ......................
(d) Public Relations & Media Management ................................................. ......................
(e) communication & creative arts ................................................. ......................
(f) Sociology ................................................. ......................
(g) Political Science ................................................. ...................... 
 (c) other :  ..................................................................................................................................................................... 
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
    ...............................................................................................................................................................................
   (related to media, communication, journalism, outreach, event management or marketing)
09.   Professional Qualifications (copies of the certificates should be attached) :  ...................................................................
   .......................................................................................................................................................................................... 
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
10. Experience (copies of the certificates should be attached)  :  ...........................................................................................
 ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
 No. of years:  ....................................................................................................................................................................
 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
572
 areas – (please tick( ) in the correct box)
  (i) Marketing
  (ii) outreach
  (iii) Visitor Management
  (iv) communications
  (v) Leadership 
11.  details of current Employment:
 (a) Name and address of the institution :  .......................................................................................................................
 (b) Date of first Appointment : .........................................................................................................................................
 (c) Present Post :  .............................................................................................................................................................
 (d) Monthly basic Salary : ................................................................................................................................................
 (e) allowances :  ...............................................................................................................................................................
 (f) Gross Salary : .............................................................................................................................................................
12.  Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a court of Law? : ............................................................................
  if yes, give details:  .......................................................................................................................................................... 
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
13.  Have you served under the Government before? : ........................................................................................................... 
if yes, give details:  ...........................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
   ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, i 
am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before selection, 
or to be dismissed without any compensation if such detection is made after appointment. 
...........................................................,
Signature of the applicant.
date: .........................................
Certification of Head of Department/Institution 
(Only for applicants serving in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service/Government Corporations/
Statutory Boards) 
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of Mr / Mrs /Miss …………………………….............................. holding 
the post of ................................................................................................ in this institution. i certify that his/her work and 
conduct are satisfactory and that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action or there is no intention to make 
such inquiry. He/she can be released/cannot be released from the service if selected for this post.   
  ...........................................................,
  Signature of Head of department/institution
  (Official Stamp)
date: .........................................
03–894

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
573
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
ministry of National Policies, Economic Affairs, 
Resettlement & Rehabilitation, Northern 
Province Development, vocational Training & 
Skills Development and youth Affairs 
Department of Technical Education & Training
aPPoiNtMENt oN PRoMotioN to cLaSS i oF SRi 
LaNKa tEcHNicaL EducatioN SERVicE
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Class II officers of Sri 
Lanka Technical Education Service to fill 40 vacancies in 
class i of the said service of the department of technical 
Education & training which comes under the purview 
of the Ministry of National Policies, Economic affairs, 
Resettlement & Rehabilitation, Northern Province 
development, V ocational training & Skills development 
and youth affairs.
applications prepared according to the specimen form 
given at the end of this notice in an a4 size paper using 
both sides with item Nos. 01 to 13.1 appearing in the first 
page, item Nos. 13.2 to 15 in the second page and the rest 
in the third page, should be sent under registered cover 
to reach the director General, department of technical 
Education and training, No 557, olcott Mawatha, colombo 
- 10, on or before 15.03.2019 “Promoting to class i of Sri 
Lanka technical Education Service” should be mentioned 
on the top left hand comer of the envelope, enclosing the 
application.
1. Salary and allowances.– those selected will receive 
the monthly salary of Rs. 52,523 of the salary scale 
Rs.47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895 as per 
the Public administration circular 3/2016 - SL- 1 - 2006 and 
be placed on the salary applicable to the date of appointment 
as per the schedule ii of the Public administration circular 
3/2016. Salary increments will be paid subjected to passing 
of the relevant efficiency bar examinations as mentioned in 
the service minute of Sri Lanka technical Education Service 
published in the Gazette Notification No.415 of 15.08.1986 
and the subsequent amendments done and as mentioned in 
any amendments that would be done to this service minute 
in future.
2. Qualifications :
 2.1 Should have completed at least one year period 
of satisfactory service in class ii of Sri Lanka 
Technical Education Service and confirmed in 
the said post with a Post graduate degree or 
Post graduate Diploma certificate or equivalent 
qualifications.
  or
 2.2 Should have completed at least 05 year period 
of satisfactory service in class ii of Sri Lanka 
Technical Education Service and confirmed in 
the said post.
  ("Satisfactory Service Period" shall mean, all 
salary increments have been earned in the 5 
year period immediately proceeding to the 
closing date of applications and have not been 
subjected to any punishment (except warning) 
on a disciplinary process, within the said 
period).
3. original copies of the following documents and other 
documents to prove any other qualifications should be 
submitted at the interview:
 (a) Certificate of Birth
 (b) Degree certificate, post graduate certificates or 
other educational certificates 
 (c)  Letter of promotion to class ii
 (d)  Letter of permanent appointment to the 
scheduled post 
 (e)  Certificate relevant to the qualification submitted 
to pass the efficiency bar
4. all applicants should submit their applications only to 
the Secretary of the Ministry of National Policies, Economic 
affairs, Resettlement & Rehabilitation, Northern Province 
development, V ocational training & Skills development 
and youth affairs through the Head of the department and 
applications received after the closing date of' applications 
will Not be considered.
5. all applicants should appear for a structured inteview, 
according to the following marking scheme and existing 
vacancies will be filled according to the highest marks order.
6. in the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of this notification, Sinhala text shall 
prevail.
marking scheme of the interview to promote to Class 
I of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service.
total Marks for the interview- 100
2. Experience in the service - 40 marks
 1.1 04 marks per year, for the number of years 
completed, after completing 01 year satisfactory 
service in class ii of Sri Lanka technical 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
574
Education Service with a postgraduate degree 
or postgraduate diploma or equivalant 
qualification
 (i) 04 marks for each 01 year period of 
satisfactory service
 (ii) 02 marks for 06 month period of 
satisfactory service
 (iii) 01 mark for 03 month period of satisfactory 
service
maximum 40 marks
  or
 2.2 04 marks per year, for the number of years 
completed after completing 05 year satisfactory 
service in class ii of Sri Lanka technical 
Education Service
 (i) 04 marks for each 01 year period of 
satisfactory service
 (ii) 02 marks for 06 month period of 
satisfactory service
 (iii) 01 mark for 03 month period of 
satisfactory service
maximum 40 marks
  (Period of service will be considered up to the 
closing date of applications)
2. On merit - 60 marks
 2.1 For professional qualifications obtained, 
maximum 20 marks
2.1.1. (Marks should be given only to the degree 
completed in addition to the postgraduate 
degree or postgraduate diploma which are 
the basic qualifications, to be obtained 
by the officers, who are eligible
- to 
be promoted to class i under 12.1 of 
service minute of Sri Lanka technical 
Education Service. the above should be 
of postgraduate diplomas/postgraduate 
degrees approved in the university Grants 
commission.
  Phd -20
  Postgraduate degree (MSc, Mba,  - 15
   MEng, MPhil, Ma,MSsc)  
  Post Graduate diploma (not less - 10
   than 01 year)
  (Marks will not be given to Postgraduate 
degree or Postgraduate diploma, provided 
for the Efficiency Bar)
 2.1.2 For applicants who are eligible to be 
promoted to class i under 12.2 of Service 
Minute of Sri Lanka technical Education 
Service
  Phd -20
  Postgraduate degree (MSc, Mba,  - 15 
   MEng, MPhil, Ma, MSsc) 
  Post Graduate diploma (not less - 10
   than 01 year)
  (Marks will not be given to Postgraduate degree 
or Postgraduate diploma, provided for the 
Efficiency Bar)
 2.2 03 marks per year for administrative experience 
obtained in a scheduled post (permanent) in 
class ii
maximum 15 marks
 2.3 05 marks per each independent, group research, 
other publications published or innovations 
connected to the field (Researches, research 
papers, research thesis research, tutorials, would 
be considered)
maximum 15 marks
  (In order to prove the relevant qualification 
thesis research, tutorials research, papers and/
or patent warrants must be produced to the 
interview board and must prove that those 
researches and innovations have been published. 
thesis submitted for degree programs will not 
be considered.)
 2.4 01 mark per each commendation obtained on 
General 230b format
maximum 05 marks
 2.5 Performance at the interview 
maximum 05 marks
  communication Skills  - 02 Marks
  Leadership  - 02 Marks
  Personality  - 01 Marks
by order of the Public Service commission,
 V.  
SiVagNaNaSothy,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of National Policies, Economic affairs, 
 Resettlement & Rehabilitation, Northern 
 Provision development, V ocational training 
 Skills & development and youth affairs.
No 354/2, “Nipunatha Piyasa”,
1
st floor, Elvitigala Mawatha,
colombo - 5.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
575
aPPliCatioN for the PromotioN to ClaSS i of Sri laNka teChNiCal eduCatioN SerViCe
 1. Name (with initials) :––––––––––––.
 2. Name in full :––––––––––––.
 3. Office Address :––––––––––––.
 4. Private address :––––––––––––.
 5. telephone No. :––––––––––––.
 6. date of birth :––––––––––––.
 7. age, as at the closing date of applications :––––––––––––. 
 8. Sex :––––––––––––. 
 9. Marital Status :––––––––––––. 
 10. date appointed to class ii of Sri Lanka technical Education Service :––––––––––––.
 11. Date of first appointment to SLTES :––––––––––––.
 12. 12.1 total Service period as at the closing date of applications :––––––––––––.
  12.2 Period of service in class ii as at the closing date of applications :––––––––––––. 
 13. Educational Qualifications :
  13.1 GcE (o/L) : year :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
  13.2  GcE ( a/L ) : year :––––––––––––.
Subjects Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
  13.3 Particulars of degree, obtained :
Name of the Degree Field effective date of the Degree
1. Phd
2. Postgraduate degree
3. Postgraduate diploma
4. bSc/ba
  13.4 Name and field of postgraduate Degree or postgraduate Diploma which was considered for the Efficiency Bar : 
  –––––––––––.
14.  Professional Qualifications :
  14.1 Professional qualifications obtained in the field relevant to the present post:
    1. ......................................................................................................................
    2. ...................................................................................................................... 
    3. ...................................................................................................................... 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
576
  14.2 Professional qualifications obtained in other feilds :
    1. .......................................................................................................... 
    2. ...................................................................................................................... 
    3. ...................................................................................................................... 
15. Qualifications obtained in Institutional Administration :––––––––––––.
16. Particulars of certificates / commendations received with regard to well disciplinary :––––––––––––.
17. Particulars, of researches published and innovations presented :––––––––––––.
i certify that the above particulars are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and i have not been involved in 
or punished for any disciplinary offence during my service period.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Recommendation of Head of the Department :
i hereby certify that the above particulars, of Mr. / Mrs. / Miss. ............................. who is working in this department 
/ college of technology / technical college, are true and correct and he / she has not been involved in or punished for any 
disciplinary offence during the service period.
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 director General,
 department of technical Education and training.
Seal :
date :––––––––––––.
02–847
––––––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE, RuRAL ECONOmIC AffAIRS, LIvESTOCk DEvELOPmENT, 
IRRIGATION AND fIShARIES AND AquATIC RESOuRCES DEvELOPmENT
Department of Agriculture
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN FoR REcRuitMENt to PoStS iN tHE GRadE 111 oF 
tHE SRi LaNKa tEcHNoLoGicaL SERVicE iN tHE dEPaRtMENt oF 
aGRicuLtuRE - 2017(2019)
aPPLicatioNS are called from Citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the following Qualifications for Open Competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to Grade 111 of the Posts of Soil Surveyor / Technical Officer of the Sri Lanka Technological 
Service in the department of agriculture. the closing date of applications is 22.03.2019, and the examintion is scheduled 
to be held at the end June, 2019.
Post No. of Vacancies
01. Soil Surveyor 02
02. Technical Officer 01

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
577
02.1. Recruitment on Open Basis :-
 02.1.1.  the age of applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at 22.03.2019, the 
closing date of applications. (Accordingly , any applicant qualifies to sit the examination in terms of 
the age only if his /her date of birth falls on or before 22.03.2001 and on or after 22.03.1989 ).
02.1.2. The candidates are required to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional 
Qualifications.
Code
No.
relevant to 
the post
Post 02.1.3 Educational Qualifications 02.1.4 Professional Qualifications
G.C.E (O/L)
Examination
G.C.E (A/L)
Examination
01 Soil
Surveyor
a pass in G.c.E 
(o/L) Examination 
in 06 (six) subjects 
with credit passes 
in Sinhala / tamil / 
English Language,
Mathematics, Science 
and any other subject 
at one sitting
a pass in G.c.E 
(a/L) Examination 
in 03 (three) 
science subjects 
with two science 
subjects out of 
agriculture, 
biology, chemistry, 
botany, Physics, 
Zoology at one 
sitting (Except 
General English 
and General test) 
two years agriculture diploma awarded by 
an institution approved by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission
or
completion of National V ocational 
Qualifications (NVQ) Level 6 in relevance to 
the field of the job
or
Qualifications accepted by the Tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission
subsequent to consulting the Ministry of 
Higher Education and institutions that award 
aforesaid technical certificates as equivalent to 
the above qualifications in every respect
02 technical
Officer
a pass in G.c.E 
(o/L) Examination 
in 06 (six) subjects 
with credit passes 
in Sinhala / tamil / 
English Language,
Mathematics, Science 
and any other subject 
at not more than two 
sittings
a pass in G.c.E 
(a/L) Examination 
in 03 (three) 
science subjects 
with two science 
subjects out of 
applied Maths, 
Pure Maths, 
chemistry, Physics, 
combined Maths at 
one sitting (Except 
General English 
and General test)
Professional qualifications relevant to the Field 
of the post out of the following qualifications 
should be gained.
i.  National diploma in technology awarded 
by the university of Moratuwa or Hardi 
institute, ampara.
or
ii.  National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the National apperentice and 
technical training.
or
iii. Higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the Ministry of Education 
and Higher Education.
or
iv. diploma in technology awarded by the 
open university of Sri Lanka.
or

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
578
Code
No.
relevant to 
the post
Post 02.1.3 Educational Qualifications 02.1.4 Professional Qualifications
G.C.E (O/L)
Examination
G.C.E (A/L)
Examination
v. Successful completion of Part -1 of the 
Engineering Examination conducted by 
the Sri Lanka institute of Engineering.
or
vi. completion of completion of National 
V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) Level 6 
in relevance to the field of the job
or
vii. Technological qualifications accepted by 
the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission subsequent to consulting 
the Ministry of Higher Education and 
institutions that award above technical 
Certificates as equivalent to the above 
technological qualifications in every 
respect
02.1.3 Other Qualifications.– All Applicants should certify that they have fulfilled the following qualifications
 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 Should be an excellent moral character
 a clergy in any religious sect is not eligible to apply for this examination
 Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island
3. Fulfillment of the qualifications required to appear in this writing examination for recruitment to the Service 
will be recognized only if the applicant has completed the all qualifications in every respect on or before the closing date of 
applications.
4. Since, the number of vacancies are less than 03 recruitment will be made only from open stream in terms of the 
Minute on Sri Lanka Technological Service. Further, the Appointing Authority has reserved the authority to fill some of or 
all vacancies or to unfill all vacancies.
Salary and Efficiency Bar Examinations 
Salary code - MN -03/2016 a
Salary Scale -  Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11 x660 - 10x730 - 10x750 - Rs. 57,550.
Salary, Salary increments and allowances will be paid up to 01.01.2020 in accordance with the provisions of Public 
administration circular 03/2016.
The first Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of appointment to 
the Grade III, the second Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of promotion 
to Grade II and three months training course on management should be completed within (05) five years from the date 
of promotion to Grade I. An officer who has joined the Public Service in a Language other than the Official Languages 
should acquire the proficiency in official Language as prescribed within the Period of Probation. For the fulfillment of the 
proficiency in other language prescribed for the post should be obtained as per the P.A. Circular No. 1/2014 and amendments 
made thereto. Failure to obtain the proficiency in Official languages and pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the 
periods as prescribed will be a cause for the deferment of future salary increments.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
579
5. Terms of engagement :-
 i. This appointment is permanent and pensionable. You shall be subject to a policy decision taken by the 
government in future on the pension scheme to which you are entitled. Further, you shall make contributions 
to the Widows and orphans’/ Widowers’ and orphans Pension Scheme. you shall make your contributions 
in the manner determined by the government from time to time.
 ii. you are bound to serve in any part of the island in which you are called upon to serve.
 iii. You will be subject to the conditions of the Minutes on the Sri Lanka Technological Service published in 
the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. : 1930/12 of 01.09.2015, 
effective at present and any other amendments hereinafter made thereto and to the recruitment procedures.
6. Method of Application :
 (a) The Specimen of the Application for this examination is appended at the end of this notification. The 
application should accordingly be prepared only on a4 size, (21 cm x 29cm) paper using both sides of the 
paper, so as heads 01 to 03 in the first page, 04 to 06 in the second page and 07 to 10 in the third page of the 
Application. The relevant particulars should be filled by applicant in his/her own hand writing. The name 
of the examination appears in the heading of the application prepared either in Sinhala or tamil Language 
is required to be printed in English language as well. applications which are not in accordance with the 
specimen and incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. It would be an advantage to keep a 
photocopy of the application with you. Further, applicant should check whether the application prepared by 
him/her is in order of the specimen appended to this notification. Unless the application may be rejected.
 (b) the application should be completed only in the language in which the applicant intends to sit for the 
examination.
 (c) duly completed applications should be sent by registered post to director General of agriculture, Pa/01 
Branch, Department of Agriculture, Head Office, Peradeniya on or before 22.03.2019.
 (d) the words “open competitive Examination for recruitment to the Posts of Sri Lanka technological Service 
in the Department of Agriculture - 2017(2019) Soil Surveyor/Technical Officer” should clearly be marked 
on the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
 (e) an applicant can apply for only one post and the examination fee for one post is Rs.600. the receipt 
(original) obtained on the payment of the above examination fee to any People’s bank branch in the island 
with the instructions to credit the payment to the account of the director General of agriculture No: 057-
1001-7-902-7204 should be affixed in the space provided in the application. Keeping a copy of the receipt 
with you would be an advantage in the future. the Examination fee will not be refunded in any circumstance 
and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
 (f) Applications which are not completed in every respect or delayed will be rejected without notice, and no 
complaint that an application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
 (g) the signature of the applicant in the application for the Examination and admission card should have to be 
got attested. an applicant who is already in the public Service should get attested his/her signature by his 
Head of institution or an Officer who is authorized by him and other applicants should get attested their 
signatures by a principal of a Government School, Grama Niladhari in the division, a Justice of Peace, 
a Commissioner for Oaths, a Notory Public, a Commissioned Officer in three Forces, a Permanent Staff 
Grade Officer in the Public or Provincial Public Service.
 (h) those who are already in the Public Service are compulsory to forward their applications through Heads of 
their respective institutions.
07. Scheme of Examination :
 (a) On pre-determination that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in the 
Gazette Notification have applied for the examination, the Commissioner General of Examinations will 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
580
issue admission cards to applicants who are within the age limits specified in the notification, and who 
have forwarded duly completed applications with the language in which he/she intends to sit for the 
examination, city and the posts applied for signature of the applicant and attestation of the signature if 
applicable certificate of the Head of Institution and the receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee 
on or before the closing date of applications. a candidate must produce his /her attested admission card to 
the supervisor of the examination hall. a candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not 
be permitted to sit for the examination. issuance of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily 
mean that he/she has the requisite qualification to sit for the examination.
 (b) department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will published a notice in News Papers immediately after issuing 
admission cards to the applicants. any applicant who has not received his/her admission card 02 or 03 days 
after publishing the notice in News Papers, should notify to the organization and Foreign Examinations 
Branch of the Department of Examinations as stated in this notification. It is informed to notify to the 
organization and Foreign Examinations branch of the department ot Examinations to that effect indicating 
the name of examination applied for, your name and address and Nic number and keeping the copy of 
application which is retained by you copy of the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee and copy 
of the receipt issued when application was registered by the post in hand and in case of an applicant living 
outside colombo, to obtain a copy of the admission card by fax, it would be more productive to notify to 
the organization and Foreign Examinations branch of the department of Examination by faxing a request 
including your above information and a fax number.
 (c) travelling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid to candidates in respect of appearing this 
examination’
 (d) Identification of the candidates.– a candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor of each subject he/she offers. In examinations conducted by the Sri Lanka 
department of Examinations, one of the following documents will only be accepted to prove the 
identity of the applicant to the superviser.
 i. National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons or,
 ii. a valid Passport or,
 iii. a valid driving License.
 (e) Syllabus :
 (i) intelligence test-( time-01 hour, total marks - 100)
  this paper consists of 50 multiple choices and short answers type questions so as to make an assessment 
of the candidate’s, power of logical reasoning, analysis and ability to draw sound inference. all 
questions should be answered.
 (ii) Subject Related Knowledge Paper (Time 02 hours. Total marks -100)
  This paper consists of structured type questions to examine the candidate’s subject knowledge.
Post Syllabus of Subject Related Question Paper
01 Soil Surveyor types of soils in Sri Lanka and their distribution/ Factors effect on soil forma-
tion, identification of soil profile/ Maps reading/ Present land use pattern in Sri 
Lanka/ impact of deforestation and environmental issues/ use of fertilizers/ 
Crop diversification/ Soil water conservation methods
02 Technical Officer Welding/ black smithy/ carpentry/ Workshop machinery/ tinkering/ cutting 
blades/ Properties of matter and simple calculations/ Motor mechanics/ Electri-
cal engineering/ Plants/ Safety methods/ teaching methods

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
581
 (f) Medium:-
  this examination will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English Languages. candidates must answer all 
the papers of the examination only in one language. the language preferred in the application will not be 
allowed to change later.
 (g) All candidates are subject to the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in connection 
with this examination. a candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment at the discretion 
of the commissioner General Examinations.
 (h) Place and date of Examination:-
  this Examination will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations at colombo and Kandy 
in June 2019. In case of receiving insufficient number of applications, the examination will only be held in 
colombo. (the examination centre given in the application will not be allowed to change later.)
  Examination Center Code No. 
  colombo 01
  Kandy 02
8. Method of Recruitment :
 i. Subsequent to submitting the result sheet prepared on merits of agregate of marks secured in the 
examination of the Sri Lanka department of Examinations will take steps to post results personally to 
all applicants who appeared in the examination or to publish the results in the web site of the Sri Lanka 
department of Examination www.results.exams.gov.lk.
 ii. Recruitments will be considered on the merit list prepared according to aggregate of marks of the 
applicants selected from those who have secured 40% or more marks in each question paper.
 iii. The qualification of the applicants will be scrutinized by a board of Interview appointed by the Director 
General of agriculture based on the merit of marks of the examination. Subsequently those who have 
fulfilled the requirements will be selected for posts. (Marks will not be awarded at the interview.)
 iV . the number of applicants to be called for the interview will be decided by the director General of 
agriculture.
 V.  If it is revealed at the interview that a candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications as at the closing of 
applications, his /her candidature will be cancelled.
 Vi. If a candidate will pass the examination appearing in it without completing the qualifications prescribed 
in this Gazette Notification as at the closing date of applications he/she will not be considered for the 
interview and his/her application will be rejected without any notice.
 Vii. if anyone obtains an appointment by furnishing false information and forged documents immediately 
after revealing such information or document action will be taken to revoke his/her appointment and to 
proceed legal action against him/her.
 Viii. Issuance of results.– A list of candidates who have secured 40% or more marks in each subject will be 
provided to the Board of Interview as notified by the Director General of Agriculture.
9. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the “Appointing Authority” All candidates are 
bound to act in conformity with the General Rules of Examinations stipulated in this Gazette.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
582
10. In the event of any inconsistency among notification published in all three languages of this Examination 
Notification, the Sinhala notification shall prevail.
 dr. W.M.W. WeerakooN,
 director General of agriculture (Actg.),
at the department of agriculture,
Peradeniya,
02nd February, 2019.
For Office use only
SPeCimeN aPPliCatioN form
aPPliCatioN for oPeN ComPetitiVe examiNatioN for reCruitmeNt to PoStS iN the grade 111 of the Sri laNka teChNologiCal 
SerViCe iN the dePartmeNt of agriCulture - 2017(2019)
Medium of Examination  - Sinhala  - 02 
   t amil  - 03
   English - 04 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination center - colombo - 01
   Kandy      - 02 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Post applied for     Post Number of the Post
• Soil Surveyor - 01    1
• Technical Officer  - 02    2
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name:
  1.1 Full Name (in English capital letters ) :––––––––––––––.
   Eg.– HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa
  1.2 Name indicating the last name first and initials of other names at the end (In English capital letters)  :––––––––––.
   (eg.– GuNa WaRdHaNa , H.M.S.K)
  1.3 Full Name  :––––––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala / tamil)
  1.4 National identity card Number  :
  1.5 telephone No. :
02. Permanent address:
  2.1 in English capital Letters :
  2.2 in Sinhala / tamil
  2.3 address to which the admission should be sent:
   (in English capital Letters)  
  2.4 district of Permanent Residence : 
  2.5 divisional Secretariat division : 
03.  Gender: Female  - 1 
    Male  - 0     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04.  4.1 date of birth :  year :   Month :    date :

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
583
  4.2 age as at the closing date of applications :  years :   Months :      days :
  4.3 Marital Status : unmarried  - 1
     Married  - 2     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Educational Qualifications (with the medium) :
  (a) G.c.E. (o/L) Examination :
  (i) year and Month :–––––––––––.
  (ii) index Number :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Medium :–––––––––––.
  (iv) Results :
Subject Pass
  (b) G.c.E. (a/L) Examination :
  (i) year and Month :–––––––––––.
  (ii) index Number :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Medium :–––––––––––.
  (iv) Results :
Subject Pass
06. Professional Qualifications :
Name of the
Diploma
Name of the Institution that 
awarded the Diploma
Year
passed
Medium Index No. Date of
Validity
07. the People’s bank to which the examination fee was paid
  7.1. date of payment  :–––––––––––.
  7.2. No. of the receipt  :–––––––––––. 
  7.3. amount  :–––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee from one of its edges so as to 
be unglued (Keep a photo copy of the receipt with you)

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
584
08. declaration of the applicant:
1 do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. i am also aware 
that, if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or 
to dismissal without any compensation of such detection is made after appointment. Further, i hereby declare that i am 
subject to the rules imposed in respect of this examination and decisions taken in respect of releasing the results by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. i also certify that only one application is submitted for the post applied by me.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant.
date  :–––––––––––.
09. attestation of the signature of the applicant:
i do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................................................... who submits this 
application is known to me personally and that he/she place his/her signature in my presence on  .......... and he/she has paid 
the prescribed examination fee and affixed the receipt.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of attester. 
date  :–––––––––––;
Full Name of attester  :–––––––––––;
designation  :–––––––––––;
address  :–––––––––––.
(please prove by the official seal)
10. For those who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service (strike off the words inapplicable) :
I do hereby certify that the above applicant has /has not fulfilled the all requisite qualifications to appear in this 
examination as per this Gazette Notification and he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt is affixed and 
he/she can /can’t be released from his/her present post in this department if he/she is selected.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of the department.
date  :–––––––––––;
Full Name of attester  :–––––––––––;
designation  :–––––––––––;
address  :–––––––––––.
(please prove by the official seal)
02–751
–––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service – 2019 (I)
it is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ 
Service will be conducted in May 2019 in colombo in accordance with the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka teacher 
Educators’ Service bearing No.1925/37 and came to effect from 28.07.2015 and published in the Gazette Extraordinary of 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
585
02. the relevant syllabus and the other Provisions applicable to this Examination have been published under the 
Schedule iii of the aforementioned Service Minute. the syllabus and the other Provisions are mentioned below for the 
convenience of the candidates. 
An Officer is allowed to sit the prescribed subjects of this Efficiency Bar Examination in the same sitting or in 
separate sittings.
03. Procedure of the Examination.– Written Examination :
Subject 
Number
Subject Marks Duration (Hours)
01 General Management and Establishment 100 1 1/2
02 Financial Regulations 100 1 1/2
03 Educational Reforms and Educational Law 100 02
04 English Language 100 02
04. The Syllabus :
Subject 
Number
Subject Content of the Subject
01 General 
Management and 
Establishment
With special reference to chapters i, ii, iii, iV , V , Vii, Viii, ix, xii, xiii, xiV , xxiV , 
xxViii, xxx and xxxi of the Establishments code 
With special reference to chapter i, iii, iV , V , Vi, Viii, x and xii of the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission. 
02 Financial 
Regulations
With special reference to chapters i, ii, V , Viii, xii and xiV of Part 1 of the Financial 
Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka
03 Educational 
Reforms and 
Educational Law
candidates are expected to be familiar with the following ordinances and acts of the 
Parliament.
i. Educational Reforms 1972 (New approach to Education) 
ii. White Paper on Education 1981 
iii. First Report of the National Education commission 1992 
iv. New Educational Reforms 1997 
v. New Educational Reforms implemented since 1999 (Primary, Secondary &                  
G. c. E. (a/L)) 
vi. the Public Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968 as amended by the Public 
Examinations (amendment) act, No. 15 of 1976 
vii. the National institute of Education act, No. 28 of 1986 
viii. the colleges of Education act, No. 30 of 1986 
ix. the National Education commission act, No. 19 of 1991 
x. the National authority on teacher Education act, No. 32 of 1997 
xi. the constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the 13th amendment and 
chapter 3 on Fundamental Rights
04 English Language
- english Grammar:-  tense and Number, Sentences (Simple/compound/complex/
Compound Complex), Relative Clauses, Adjectives and Adverbs, Prepositions. 
- Communication Skills: - General  Greetings and introduction, Giving and getting 
information, advising, Suggesting and expressing opinions, telephone skills, 
interviewing Skills, Meeting. 
- 
- Writing Skills: - internal modes of communication, Formal correspondence skills, 
writing descriptions Explanations, Summary Writing Skills, Report Writing Skills

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
586
N.B- candidates are required to obtain at least 40 
marks on each of the papers for a pass in the 
Efficiency Bar Examination. A candidate may pass 
the examination with one or more subjects at a 
single sitting. 
Note: - Requirement to obtain a pass in the English 
Language under this Efficiency Bar Examination 
will be exempted when a candidate has followed 
the degree or Post Graduate diploma or Post 
Graduate degree in the medium of English. 
05. Language Mediums of the Examination :
5.1 this Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English mediums. the language 
medium applied for the Examination cannot be 
altered later.
5.2 a candidate who has entered the Public Service 
through a competitive examination should 
select the Medium of language through which 
he/she sat the competitive Examination as the 
Medium of this Examination and in case the 
candidate has entered the Public Service without 
passing a competitive examination should select 
the medium of language that he/she sat the 
Examination through which he/she was qualified 
to enter the Public Service.
5.3 the candidature of a candidate will be cancelled 
if it is revealed that a candidate is sitting the 
Examination in a medium of Language that is not 
entitled to him/her.  
06. application should be prepared as per the format 
mentioned here using the both sides of an a4 sized paper 
and the Heads No.01 to 05 should appear on the first page. 
in the preparation of application, the title of the Examination 
appears in the heading of the applications should be 
mentioned in English Language in addition to the Sinhala 
Language in Sinhala applications and in English Language 
in addition to the tamil Language in tamil applications. you 
should be cautious whether the application is in conformity 
with the specimen application mentioned in the Notification 
of the Examination and whether all the information have 
been accurately completed and whether the prescribed 
Examination fees have been paid and the said details are 
included in the relevant place of the application and the 
receipt is affixed to the application prior to directing the 
application as the applications that are not in conformity with 
the specimen applicatio n and applications with incomplete 
information are rejected without prior notice. It is hereby 
notified that it would be beneficial to retain a photocopy of 
the application. 
07. this Examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in colombo and the 
candidates are bound to adhere the Rules and Regulations 
imposed by him. 
08. Provision of False information – accurate information 
should be furnished carefully in filling the application. The 
candidature of a certain candidate will be cancelled in any 
instance before the Examination or during the Examination 
or after the Examination if it is revealed that he/she is 
not qualified and furnished false information as per the 
Provisions related to this Examination.  
09. applications should be sent through registered post 
to reach “the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations (institutional Foreign Examinations) branch, 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, Post box 1503, 
colombo on or before 22/03/2019. the applications that are 
sent after this date will be rejected. The term, “Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers in the Grade III of the Sri Lanka 
teacher Educators’ Service – 2019 (i)” should be mentioned 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
applications. 
10. With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette notification 
have applied for the Examination, admissions shall be 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations 
to the candidates, who have submitted duly perfected 
applications with the relevant receipt subsequent to paying 
the prescribed Examination fee along with the receipt 
issued after paying the Examination fee on or before the 
closing date of applications. A notification on the issuance 
of admissions shall be published by the department of 
Examinations in newspapers and in the Official Website of 
the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka immediately 
after issuing admissions to candidates. a candidate, who 
does not receive his/her admission two or three days after 
publishing the notification, should inform in that regard to 
the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as mentioned 
in the advertisement. Full name of the candidate, the address 
of the candidate and the National identity card number and 
the title of the Examination applied for should be indicated 
in making such inquiries. if the candidate resides outside 
colombo, it will be effective to fax a request letter along 
with such details of the candidate to the Fax No. mentioned 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
587
in the Notification including a fax Number of the candidate 
through which the candidate can obtain a copy of the 
admission via fax. in inquiring so, it will be useful to get 
prepared to produce the copy of the application kept with 
the candidate and copy of the relevant receipt if the payment 
of Examination fees is appli cable and receipt issued for 
sending the application by registered post, if it is necessary 
to substantiate any information requested by the department 
of Examinations. issuance of an admission to a candidate 
should not be deemed as an acceptance that he/she has 
fulfilled qualifications for sitting the Examination. 
11. the complaints lodged by the candidates who fail to 
fulfil the requirements mentioned in the Para 10 above will 
not be entertained. 
12. the Signature of the candidate should have been 
attested in the application as well as in the admission for 
the Examination. a candidate applying for the Examination 
from a certain institute should certify his/her signature from 
the Head of the Institution or from an officer authorized by 
the Head of the institution. a candidate should hand over the 
admission, in which his/her signature has been attested to 
the Supervisor of the Examination on the first day of sitting 
the Examination. any candidate who fails to submit his / 
her admission that has been systematically completed is not 
permitted to sit the Examination. 
13. Submission of proof to substantiate their identity at 
the Examination hall is the responsibility of the candidates. 
For that purpose;
 (i) National identity card 
 (ii) Valid Passport
          or 
 (iii) Valid driving License will only be accepted. 
14. issuance of an admission to a candidate should 
not be deemed as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled 
qualifications for sitting the Examination or has fulfilled 
qualifications for a Post.
15. Examination Fees :
 (a) the candidates sitting this Examination should 
pay Examination Fees on the following basis.  
 (i) Fees will not be charged for the first sitting.
 (ii) Examination Fees as mentioned below will be 
charged for each sitting subsequent to the first 
sitting.
  Full Examination fee  Rs. 500
  Fee per one Subject  Rs. 250
 (b)  the receipt obtained in favour of the candidate 
by paying this Examination fee to any Post 
Office / Sub Post Office or District Secretariat / 
divisional Secretariat  of the island to be credited 
to the revenue of the Government under the 
Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations should be firmly affixed 
through an edge of the receipt on the specified 
place of the application. it will be useful for the 
candidate to retain a photocopy of the receipt. 
 (c)  Money orders or stamps will not be accepted for 
the Examination fee. the fees charged for this 
Examination will not be refunded or transferred to 
any other examination under any circumstances. 
16. the result sheet of all the candidates who sat 
the Examination will be forwarded to the Secretary of 
the Ministry of Education by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. Result sheets will not be personally 
issued to the candidates by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
17. The Candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination in 
relation to the conduct of the Examination. it is informed 
that he/she will have to undergo any punishment imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations in case such 
rules or regulations are violated.
18. in case of any inconsistency prevails among language 
texts of this notification  published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English Languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such an 
instance.
19. the Secretary of Education reserves the right of 
deciding any matter, which is not covered by this notification.
 PadmaSiri JayamaNNe,                                                           
 Secretary,                                                                             
  Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,                                             
isurupaya,
battaramulla,
on 08th February, 2019.
                                                                                             

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
588
                                                                                SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN
effiCieNCy bar examiNatioN for offiCerS iN grade iii of the Sri laNka teaCher eduCatorS’ SerViCe – 2019 (i)
applications should be sent by registered Post through the Head of the institution to reach commissioner General 
of Examinations, organization and Foreign Examinations branch, department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.o box 1503, 
colombo. (the title of the Examination should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope)
The Medium of Language through which the Officer sits the Examination: - Sinhala  - 2     
         tamil      - 3
                                                                                                                              English - 4
                                                                                (the relevant number should be mentioned inside the cage)
01.   (i)  Name in Full: (in English block capitals) :..............................................................................................................
          (Ex: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
          (ii)  Name indicating the last name first and the initials at the end (In English Block Capitals) : ...................................
     ...................................................................................................................................................................................
          (Ex: Gunawardhana, H.M.S.K.)
          (iii) Name in Full (in Sinhala/tamil) : .............................................................................................................................
02.    (i) National college of Education/ teachers’ college/ teachers’ centre served and the address 
    (in English block capitals)  the admisisons are referred to this address :..............................................................
   (iii) Personal address (in English block capitals) : ........................................................................................................
          (Applicable only for the officers employed in Teachers’ Colleges/ Teachers’ Centres)
03. telephone Number :
   (i) Mobile telephone :
   (ii) Fixed telephone :
04.   (i)  National identity card Number:       
    (ii)  Sex:    Male     - 0 
                  Female - 1        
                             (Write the relevant number in the cage)
05. The subjects for which candidate sits should be clearly indicated with the Subject Number and the Subject mentioned 
under (a) in para two of the notification. 
Subject Subject No.
06.    (i)  date of birth:     year  :                          Month  :                    date :
         (ii)  designation : ............................................................................................................................................................. 
07. Whether sat the full or part of the Examination before and if so, mention the subjects and the year of sitting the 
Examination and the mediums.
Subject Year Medium Index Number

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'02'22
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.02.2019
589
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
08. Particulars in relation to the payment of the Examination fee if applicable :
(i) Receipt Number : ......................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Post Office/ Sub post office to which the fee has been paid : ...................................................................................
(iii) d ate : .........................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) t he amount paid : .....................................................................................................................................................
Paste the receipt here 
09. i do hereby declare that the information mentioned above is accurate and i am entitled to sit this Examination in the
medium of Language mentioned as per para 05 of this Gazette notification.   Further, I do declare that I agree to be liable
to the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations pertaining to the conduct of the
Examination.
   –––––––––––––––––,            
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
10. c ommissioner General of Examinations :
I do hereby certify that the applicant whose information stated above is qualified to sit this Examination and he/
she is eligible to sit this Examination in the medium of Language indicated by him/her as per the para 05 of the Gazette 
Notification. Further, I certify that the Candidate is exempted from paying the Examination fee/ has paid the specified 
Examination Fee and affixed the receipt issued for the payment of the Examination fees.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature and the designation of the President / 
Principal of the teachers’ college / Manager of the teachers’ centre.
(Substantiate with the Official Frank) 
(delete the words not applicable)
02–886