

<!-- page 1 -->

SRI VIDYAWASA SOCIAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
LIMITED (INCORPORATION)
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Presented by Hon. Edward Gunasekara, M. P. for Gampaha District on
04th May, 2016
to incorporate the Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
A
BILL
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
(Published in the Gazette on April 11, 2016)
[Bill No. 103]
——————
——————
——————
2—PL 009913—225 (05/2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
1
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE VIDYAWASA SOCIAL SERVICE
ASSOCIATION LIMITED
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Sri
Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited” has
heretofore been formed at Mini Oluwa, Meerigama in Sri
Lanka, for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Association, according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofor
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Sri Vidyawasa Social
Service Association Limited” (Incorporation) Act, No.   of
2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as presently are members of the
“Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited”
(hereinafter referred to as the  “Association”)  or shall hereafter
be admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted
shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the
Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the name and
style of the “Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association
Limited”, and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts
with full power and authority to have and use a common seal
and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are herby declared to be —
(a) to take necessary steps for the propagation of
Buddha Sasanaya ;
Preamble.
Short Title.
Incorporation
 of the
Vidyawasa
Social Service
Association
Limited.
General
Objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30
2 —H 09874 — 300 (04/2016)

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
(b) to establish and maintain Buddhist Dhamma
Schools and to assist them ;
(c) to sustain the displaced children and to establish
Orphanages;
(d) to promote mutual understanding and cooperation
among the human society on national and religious
grounds ;
(e) to plan and engage in the implementation of
community welfare, educational and social
development projects in Sri Lanka ;
(f) to provide bursaries, scholarships, prizes, donations,
financial aid and assistance for the promotion of
education and the advancement, dissemination and
propagation of knowledge ;
(g) to engage in any industry or trade or in any export
or import business and to aid and assist persons to
commence and operate agricultural, industrial and
commercial ventures and to undertake training
programmes and extension services and to organize
propaganda activities relating to the transfer of
technology ;
(h) to establish and maintain projects for the protection
and conservation of the environment ;
(i) to establish and maintain a library service ;
(j) to collaborate or liase with any other institution
whether foreign or local having objects similar to
those of the Corporation ;
(k) to sponsor and conduct conferences, seminars,
workshops group studies and lectures in Sri Lanka
and elsewhere in furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation ;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
3
(l) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
leaflets, newspapers and magazines which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects; and
(m) to do all such other acts and things as may be
necessary, incidental or conducive to the
accomplishment of all or any of the objects of the
Corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power —
(a) to purchase, rent, lease or otherwise acquire lands
buildings which may be required for the purposes
of the Corporation ;
(b) to borrow or raise money with or without interest
for the purposes of the Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts ;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Board may think fit ;
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants, donations
and gifts of all kinds ;
(f) to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons as may be
necessary for carrying out its objects ;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trusts and conditions affecting
any movable or immovable property ;
 
General
powers of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
(h) to appoint, employ and dismiss, officers and servants
of the Corporation and to pay them such salaries,
allowances and gratuities as may be determined by
the Corporation; and
(i) to do all other acts and things as may be necessary
or expedient for the proper and effective carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1)  There shall be a Board of Trustees who shall hold
the funds and property movable and immovable on behalf of
the Association.
(2) Trust property shall not be disposed of without the
approval of the Board of Trustees.
(3) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
consist of the Board of Trustees of the Association holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this act.
(4) The Board of Trustees shall have the power to take
any legal action as may be necessary for fulfillment of the
objects of the Corporation with regard to the acquisition of
movable and immovable property and to form a new fund.
6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by an Executive Director and a Board of
Management appointed in accordance with the rules.
(2) The Board of Management of the Corporation shall
consist of 14 members including the Chief President, two
joint secretaries, three vice presidents, the Treasurer, three
organizers, one audit officer and three members who will be
nominated by the Hon. Executive Director on his discretion.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sub-
section (1) of this Section the Reverend Makulewa Vimala
Thero shall be the first Executive Director of the Corporation.
Board of
Trustees and
its powers.
Management
of the Affairs
of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
5
Register of
Members.
Rules of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
(4) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of Management of
the Association holding office on the day preceding the date
of commencement of this Act.
7. The Board shall cause to be kept a register of members
in which every person who on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act was a member of the
Association and every person thereafter duly admitted as a
member of the Corporation shall have his name inscribed.
8. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any meeting of the Corporation and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting
to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or any other written law for all matters as may be necessary
for carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules of the Association in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or other written law, be deemed to be the rules of
the Corporation and may be amended, altered, added to, or
rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as a rule made
under sub-section (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, fees or grants for and on account of the
Corporation shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation
in one or more banks as the Board shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act.
25
30
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
10. (1) The Board of Management shall cause proper
accounts to be kept of all the moneys received and expended
by the Corporation.
(2) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
Income and Expenditure and the Balance Sheet certified by
an Auditor or Auditors who are associate members of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka appointed by
the Board.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all debts
due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Association on the day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue, of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Executive Director, Chairman of the Board and the Secretary
or such other person duly authorized by the Board who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not  become a
property of the Vidyawasa Pirivena and such property shall
reserved for the development of the Viharaya and the
utilization of Bikkhus.
Accounts and
Auditing.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Association.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
35

<!-- page 8 -->

Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
7
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or any other
persons except such as are mentioned in this Act and those
claiming by, from, or under them.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Sri Vidyawasa Social Service Association Limited
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .