

<!-- page 1 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) – PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Councils Notifications
wxl 2049$9 – 2017 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks i÷od – 2017'12'11
No. 2049/9 – MONDAY, DECEMBER 11, 2017
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A – PG 3811– 08(12/2017)
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
North Western  Provincial Ayurveda and Indigenous Medicine Statute  No. 09 of 2017 of the
North Western Provincial Council
THE above mentioned Statute passed by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province on 21st November 2017and
assented by  the Governor of North Western Province on 27th November 2017 is hereby published for the information of the
Public.
R. M. R. M. RA THNAY AKE,
Council Secretary,
Provincial Council,
North Western Province.
Council Office,
North Western Provincial Council,
Kurunegala,
29th November, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
Provincial Council of the
North Western province of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL  AYURVEDA  AND
INDIGENOUS MEDICINE STATUTE No. 09 OF 2017 OF
THE NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Provincial Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare,
Probation & Child Care, Women’s Affairs and Council Affairs of the
North Western Province

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
3A
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCI L
North Western Provincial Ayurveda and Indigenous Medicine Statute No.09 of  2017 of the
Provincial Council of the North Western Province
A Statute to provide for The policy planing, formulation of plans, implementation and operation for the establishments of
Ayurvedic Hospitals and Dispensaries, granting financial assistance to such dispensaries and hospitals, establishment and
maintennace of herbariums and for the facilitation for the successful implementation of such activities and to provide for all
matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.
The provisions of the Statute are inconsistent with the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961.
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the North Western Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows:
Short title and
date of
operation
Objects of the
Statute
01. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Provincial Ayurveda and Indigenous Medicine
Statute No.09 of 2017 of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province and shall come into
operation on such date as may be appointed by the Governor of the North Western Province.
02. the objects of the Statute are as follows:
(1) to provide for the establishment and maintenance of the North Western Provincial
Department of  Ayurveda;
(2)  to formulate, plan, implement and monitor policies in relation to  Ayurvedic activities in the
North Western Province in compliance with the National Policy;
(3)  to establish an Advisory Council for Indigenous medicine and to provide provincial medical
research facilities;
(4) to establish and maintain Ayurvedic Hospital Development Committees and Ayurvedic
Conservation Councils;
(5) to maintain, preserve and promote Ayurvedic, Siddhi, Yunani and Indigenous medical
practices in the North Western Province;
(6) to establish, maintain and facilitate Ayurvedic Central Dispensaries and Hospitals;
 to establish medicinal gardens, to manufacture indigenous and Ayurvedic medicines and
to maintain manufactories and stores for the purpose;
 to coordinate among and obtain the active participation of government, semi-government,
non-government, voluntary institutions and individuals for the promotion and regulation
of indigenous medical practices.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
PART  I
Establishment, powers, constitution and functions of the North
Western Provincial Department of Ayurveda
03. There shall be established the “North Western Provincial Department of Ayurveda” (hereinafter
referred as the “Department”) for the execution of the objects of this Statute.
04. (1)    A qualified Ayurvedic Medical Officer in terms of the Minute of the Ayurvedic Medical
Service shall be appointed as the ”Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda” to exercise and
perform powers, provisions and functions of this Statute. Such appointment shall be made
by the Governor of the province in consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject.
(2) The staff of the Department shall be comprised of Deputy Commissioners, Assistant
Commissioners, Directors of Hospitals, Medical Officers incharge, Public Health supervising
Medcial Officers, Ayurvedic Medical Officers, Ayurvedic Public Health Medical Officers
and other staff as may be required for the both districts of Puttalam and Kurunegala to
assist the Commissioner.
(3) The Commissioner may delegate the powers and functions vested in the Commissioner
under this Statute, to Deputy Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners, Directors of
Hospitals, Medical Officers incharge, Public Health supervising  Medcial Officers, Ayurvedic
Medical Officers, Ayurvedic Public Health Medical Officers and other officials for the
purpose of exercise and execution of such powers and functions.
(4) All the officers and employees who hold the approved posts in the Department of Ayurveda
of the North Western Province by the day on which this Statute comes into force shall be
deemed to be officers and employees appointed under this Statute on their current service
conditions.
(5) All officers appointed for the purpose of this Statute shall be deemed as public officers
within the meaning of the Penal Code.
05. The duties and functions of the Department shall be as follows:
(1) to formulate the Annual Action Plan and the Annual Development Plans and to implement
the said Annual Development Plans and  the Annual Action Plan effectively after obtaining
approval therefor;
(2) to establish, administer, and maintain Provincial Ayurvedic hospitals, District Ayurvedic
hospitals, Ayurvedic Base hospitals, Rural Ayurvedic hospitals, Central Ayurvedic
Dispensaries, Ayurvedic Clinics, and Ayurvedic Promotional Centers, and to provide
treatment services;
 to establish and maintain necessary institutions for the maintenance and promotion of
public health services;
Establishment of
the
Provincial
Department of
Ayurveda
Appointment of
the Provincial
Commissioner
of Ayurveda and
Constitution of
the Department
Functions of the
Department

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
5A
(4)   to provide health education and community health services for the prevention of diseases;
(5)   to ensure the provision of a qualitative, efficient, and effective service for the patients;
(6) to preserve, promote and propagate traditional indigenous medical practices and to obtain
the services of traditional indigenous medical practitioners with special skills on special
occasions;
(7) to establish, maintain medicinal plant cultivations, herbariums, medicinal plant nurseries, to
provide necessary facilities and instructions for indigenous and Ayurvedic pharmaceutical
products and to encourage, regulate and monitor indigenous and Ayurvedic pharmaceutical
manufacturing;
(8)  to register hospitals, dispensaries, pharmaceutical manufactories, in the field of indigenous
medicine or indigenous medical laboratories, service centers or affiliated institutions which
do not fall under the purview of the Department of Local Government and to enter and
inspect such institutions as and when necessary;
(9) to establish and maintain Ayurvedic Hospital Development Committees and Ayurveda
Conservation Councils;
(10)  to maintain paying wards for the provision of indigenous medical services;
(11) to provide facilities to the local and foreign tourists to obtain indigenous medical treatment;
(12) to implement programmes dedicated for the promotion of knowledge, attitudes and skills
needed for the enhancement of the field of indigenous medicine;
(13) to maintain stores, issue and recommend alchemical  and dangerous drugs required by
registered indigenous medical practitioners;
(14)  to establish a Provincial Ayurvedic Research Board to carry out necessary research for the
advancement of the field of Ayurveda  and for the maintenance of qualitative patient care
service;
(15) to implement in collaboration with universities practical training programmes to train medical
students at the universities;
(16) to conduct National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) level training programmes for the
Department Staff and issue certificates;
 to maintain and update a data system relevant to the field of Ayurveda;
(18) to provide, monitor and regulate the indigenous medical affairs and services provided
online; and
(19)  to establish a Standard Institution and provide necessary facilities thereto for the quality
assurance of raw materials for manufacturing and  pharmaceuticals manufactured;
06.  Any institution or individual shall provide such information and reports as may be required
by the Commissioner or any other officer authorized by him for the purpose of achievement
and performance of objects and functions of this Statute.
Powers of the
Department

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
 The Commissioner or any other officer authorized by him shall have the power to enter any
indigenous medical centre or any institution which provides indigenous services in the
North Western Province at any time with or without prior notice in order  to carry out any
action in this Statute including –
(a) the conduct of any inspection, inquiry, investigation, or survey;
(b) the conduct of an inspection of necessary documents or obtaining  necessary
information;
c taking into custody of necessary documents.
 In the case of entry into an Institution providing indigenous medical services under the
purview of a Local Government Authority, to carry out the functions set out in sub section
6 (2), the Chief Executive Officer of such Authority shall be informed in advance.
(4) No person is permitted to inspect medical reports of inmates  for which action the sanction
of the Court is required unless the aforesaid officials have been assigned with specific
powers to inspect documents and reports except for information for which sanction of the
Court is required.
PART II
Policy Planning and formulation of Plans
07. The responsibility to formulate policies in relation to indigenous medical practices in the North
Western Province in compliance with the National Policy shall be vested with the Provincial
Ministry. For the purpose, proposals may be sought from the Hospital Development Committees
established in Ayurvedic hospitals and Central dispensaries, government, semi-government,
non-government institutions, voluntary organizations and individuals.
08. The Commissioner shall formulate annually the Provincial Ayurvedic Plan having regard to the
population in the province, infrastructure, social and other relevant factors and criteria shall
submit the same for the approval of the Secretary.
09. The Provincial Ministry of Indigenous Medicine and Provincial Department of Ayurveda shall
provide in compliance with the objects and provisions of this Statute, services related to indigenous
medicine including creating awareness among the public of the use of indigenous medical practices
to ensure health and sanitation of the population in the province and encouraging them to avail
themselves of such indigenous medical practices, developing and preserving traditional indigenous
medical practices, establishing and maintaining central Ayurvedic dispensaries, establishing and
maintaining medicinal gardens, manufacturing of pharmaceuticals necessary for indigenous medical
practices and obtaining directly or indirectly the assistance of government, non-government
institutions, voluntary organizations and individuals for its affairs.
formulation and
implementation
of the Plan
provision of
services
Policy
planning

<!-- page 7 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
7A
10. The Provincial Minister of Indigenous Medicine (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Minister’) may
issue instructions, provide guidance, and make regulations for the achievement and implementation
of objects and provisions of this Statute.
11. The Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Indigenous Medicine shall implement, operate and
administer the Provincial Indigenous Medical Policy in compliance with the provincial policies
on Ayurvedic and Indigenous medicine, subject to the directions, instructions and guidance
issued from time to time by the Minister to give effect to the provisions of this Statute.
12. Any person aggrieved by any order or determination made by any officer under the provisions
of this Statute or any regulation made thereunder may submit an appeal there from to the Minister.
The Minister may after an inquiry conducted thereon by the Secretary or any other officer or a
Board of Inquiry appointed by him at the direction of the Minister, confirm or amend or disallow
such order or determination.
13. There may be established Deputy or Assistant Commissioner’s offices in both Kurunegala and
Puttalam districts.
PART III
North Western Provincial Ayurvedic and
Indigenous Medical Advisory Board
14. (1) There shall be established a Provincial Indigenous Medical Advisory Board (hereinafter
referred to as the “Advisory Board”) comprising of 15 members to facilitate and assist the
policy planning on indigenous medicine and implementation of all functions relating to
indigenous medicine including, formulation, implementation and operation of plans.
This Advisory Board shall be appointed for the purpose of providing necessary advice to
the Provincial Minister in charge of the subject of Indigenous Medicine and the Secretary
to the Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of Indigenous Medicine shall be the
Chairman of the Advisory Board. The Provincial Commissioner of Ayurveda shall be the
Secretary.
 (2)    The other members of the Advisory Board shall be as follows:
(a) North Western Provincial Commissioner of Local Government or his representative;
(b)  North Western Provincial Director of Education or his representative;
(c)   a representative of the North Western Provincial Legal Division;
(d)    North Western Provincial Director of Health Services or his representative;
(e)    Provincial Director of Ayurvedic hospitals;
powers of the
Minister
powers of the
Secretary
Appeal
establishment
of district
offices
Provincial
Indigenous
Medical Advisory
Board

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
(f)  two Ayurvedic Specialists in the Provincial Public Service;
(g) two Chairmen of the District  Ayurveda Conservation Councils;
(h) two competent indigenous medical practitioners representing the administrative districts of
the province; and
(i) two representatives with knowledge and experience in the field of indigenous medicine.
(3) The members of the Advisory Board mentioned under (a) to (h) in subsection 14 (2) above shall be
ex-officio members of the Advisory Board.
 The members of the Advisory Board mentioned under (h) and (i)in subsection 14 (2) above shall
be appointed by the Minister and hereinafter be referred to as appointed members.
(5) Every appointed member of the Advisory Board shall hold such office for a period of three (03)
years unless he vacates his post earlier or removed from office by the Minister and such member
shall be eligible to be reappointed.
 Any person ;
(a)    who is not or has ceased to be a citizen of Sri Lanka or has convicted for a criminal offence
before Court or been declared as insolvent or been subject to any penalty or disciplinary
order of the Provincial Department of Ayurveda, shall be eligible neither to be appointed nor
to remain as an appointed member of the Advisory Board;
(7)  In the event of determination of the majority of the members of the Advisory Board that any
appointed member is unable to perform duties of his office due to illness or absence from the
country, the Minister may appoint another member in place of such member.
(8) The Minister may appoint another person in place of any appointed member who vacates or is
removed from his office to hold such office for the unexpired period of office of such appointed
member.
(9) The Advisory Board shall formulate such procedures as may be necessary for the conduct of
business of the meetings of the Advisory Board subject to the provisions of this Statute.
(10) Any action or deliberation of the Advisory Board shall not become null and void by reason only
of there being a vacancy in the Advisory Board or any shortcoming in the appointment of
members to the Board.
Appointment of
members to the
Advisory Board
disqualification of
member
appointment of
members on
behalf of
vacating
members
formulation of
procedures
actions of the
Board not to
be null and
void

<!-- page 9 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
9A
(11) Members of the Advisory Board participating in the meetings thereof may be remunerated
at such rates as may be approved by the Governor with the concurrence of the Minister in
charge of the subject.
(12) The Advisory Board shall convene at least once in every two (02) calendar months.
 The quorum of the meetings of the Advisory Board shall not be less than ½of the
membership.
15. The functions of the Indigenous Medical Advisory Board shall be as follows:
(1) to make proposals and recommendations to the Minister to determine the duties and functions
on all matters relating to the development and regulation of indigenous medical practices
within the North Western Province ;
(2)   to formulate procedures and processes and make proposals and recommendations for the
conduct of affairs relating to all branches of Ayurveda, and in particular Ayurvedic literature,
fundamentals in Ayurvedic doctrine, Ayurvedic clinical treatments, Ayurvedic drugs,
pharmacology and pharmacopoeia,  in order to enhance the indigenous medical system;
(3)   to make proposals, observations,  recommendations and advice on matters relating to
indigenous medicine including the following as and when demanded by the Minister:
(a) the maintenance of indigenous medical libraries, museums, herbariums, laboratories,
and other institutions;
(b) the publication of ayurvedic manuscripts, ayurvedic textbooks or other ayurvedic
journals or Papers;
(c)  the standardization of ayurvedic drugs.
PART IV
Ayurvedic Hospital Development Committees
16. There may be established a Hospital Development Committee each in every Ayurvedic hospital
in the North Western Province for the execution of development and rehabilitation and related
work in such hospitals with the participation of the public.   The constitution of the Committee
shall be as follows:
(a)     Divisional Secretary of the area;
(b)   Ayurvedic Medical Officer incharge of the hospital and the Public Health Medical Officer;
(c)  Officer incharge of the police station of the area or his representative;
(d)  Grama Niladhari of the G .N. Division where the hospital is situated;
(e)    the Principal of the nearest school or his representative;
(f)     the Secretary of the Local Authority or his representative;
(g)     two traditional indigenous medical practitioners;
(h) three persons representing government and nongovernment organizations and/or the
intellectuals of the area.
remuneration to
members
meetings of the
Board
the quorum of
the meetings
Functions of the
Indigenous
Medical
Advisory Board
Establishment
and constitution
of Hospital
Development
Committees

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
17. The quorum of the meetings of the Committee shall be 07 members.
18. (1)  The Divisional Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Committee and the Ayurvedic Medical
Officer in charge of the hospital shall be the Secretary of the Committee.
(2)   The members of the Committee mentioned under (a) to (f) in Section 16 above shall be exofficio
members of the Committee.
(3)   The members of the Committee mentioned under (g) and (h) in Section 16 above shall be
appointed by the Minister and hereinafter be referred to as ‘appointed members’.
 (4)   A member from and among standing members of the Committee shall be appointed as the
Treasurer of the Committee.
19. The Committee shall formulate such procedures as may be necessary for the meetings and conduct
of business of the meetings of the Committee subject to the provisions of this Statute and the
procedures so formulated shall be approved by the Commissioner.
20. The functions of the Ayurvedic Hospital Development Committee shall be as follows:
(1)  to design and make proposals on Indigenous medical and Ayurvedic programmes to be
implemented within the area of authority of the hospital or central dispensary;
(2)   to coordinate between the hospital and the public, government, semi government, non-
government organizations and individuals;
(3) The Ayurvedic Hospital Development Committee fund may  establish and maintain a Bank
Account in a State Bank and the same shall be subject to the internal audit of the Ministry
incharge of the subject of indigenous medicine;
(4)    to assist the provision of qualitative service to enhance the health conditions of the people
in the area through the use of indigenous medical practices;
(5)   to submit necessary proposals / recommendations on development of affairs of the hospitals
or central dispensaries to the authorities concerned and to assist the implementation of and
implement the approved proposals.
PART V
General Provisions
21. The Commissioner or any other officer authorized by him shall have the power to institute action
when any offence is committed by an Officer of the Government or Public Service under Section
29 of this Statute and disciplinary action shall be taken against any such Government or Provincial
Public Officer if he is so related with such an offence.
22. (1) The Minister may make regulations for and in respect of matters connected with giving
effect to provisions of this Statute.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and such regulation
made by the Minister shall within 30 days after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before the Provincial Council for approval.
Quorum
appointment of
Chairman,
Secretary and
members of the
Committee
formulation of
procedures
Functions of the
Committee
power to institute
action
power to make
regulations

<!-- page 11 -->

IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
11A
(3) Any regulation which is so approved by the Provincial  Council shall be deemed to be
rescinded without prejudices to anything previously made thereunder.
 (4) A notification of the date on which any such regulation is deemed rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.
23. Financial provisions needed for the maintenance of the Department and institutions under its
purview and services in executing its functions under this Statute shall be allocated from the
Annual Budget of the province and from the Provincial Council Fund and any other source
approved by the government.
24. New Indigenous medical institutions may be established on permanent or temporary basis taking
into consideration the population expansion in the Province, extent of land, spreading of diseases,
nutritional condition, environmental influence and transport facilities and the Indigenous Health
Administrative Divisions may be established and  re-organized. The Minister shall publish such
re-organizations in the gazette.
25. All indigenous medical institutions presently situated within the North Western Province and all
movable and immovable assets thereof existing on the day prior to the date of coming into
operation of this Statute shall from such date deemed to have been vested in the Department.
26. The Commissioner shall have the power to provide necessary indigenous health services for the
local body areas within the Province and he shall require the local authorities whenever necessary
to provide necessary particulars and information with regard to health conditions in such areas.
27. The Commissioner may require any person to furnish reports or information as may be required by
the Commissioner in giving effect to the provisions of this Statute within a reasonable period of
time to such official duly authorized for the purpose.
28. Any specimen form, notice, license, or any other document which has been prescribed for the
purpose of implementation of the subject of Indigenous Medicine presiding immediately to coming
into operation of this Statute shall be treated as a specimen form, notice, license, or any other
document prescribed under this Statute.
PART VI
Offences and Penalties
29. Any person who :-
 makes false or wrong declarations deliberately on a report or any other document under this
Statute or for the purpose of this Statute or a regulation or an order made under this Statute;
 fails or refuses to furnish any information or report being ordered  by an individual or an
institution as required under this Statute ;
Allocation of
financial
provision
Interim
provisions
Establishment
of Indigenous
medical
institutions
and
reorganization
of divisions
Vesting of
Indigenous
Medical
Institutions of
the Provincial
Council in the
Department
Health activities
within the local
body areas
Information to
be furnished
offences

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV ^w& jeks fldgi – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2017'12'11
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.12.2017
 fails to comply with directives or notices issued by the Commissioner without a valid
reason;
iv obstructs or prevents any person from exercising or carrying out  any power or duty or
function assigned to such person under this Statute or any regulation made there under;
(v) willfully breaches or neglects to comply and/or obstructs  the complying with this Statute
or any provision or regulation made there under; shall be guilty of an offence under this
Statute.
30. Any person who commits an offence under this Statute shall on conviction after summery trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 20,000.00 or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 06 months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
PART VII
Interpretations
31 In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires:-
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“province” means the North Western Province including the Administrative Districts of
Kurunegala and Puttalam;
“Governor” means the Governor of the North Western Province ;
“Cabinet of Ministers” means the Cabinet of Ministers of the Provincial Council of the North
Western province;
“Minister” means the Minister incharge of the subject of Indigenous Medicine of the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province ;
“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Ministry incharge of the subject of Indigenous Medicine
of the Provincial Council of the North Western Province ;
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of  the Department of Ayurveda of the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province;
“Local Authority” means the Municipalities, Urban Councils, and Pradeshiya Sabhas of the
North Western Province;
“Indigenous medicine” means Ayurveda, Siddha, Yunani and Traditional medical practices;
“Pharmaceuticals” means the Ayurveda, Siddha, Yunani and Traditional pharmaceuticals;
 “other ancillary services” means astrology, exorcism, animal and plant medical practices,
acupuncture, and other local and foreign optional medical practices;
“indigenous medical institutions” means all institutions providing indigenous medical services;
for the purpose of this Statute
 “indigenous medical institutions”  includes hospitals, clinics or dispensaries, Ayurvedic resorts,
massaging centers, pharmacies, medicinal gardens and nurseries, sales outlets, manufactories,
pharmaceutical stores, manufactories of perfumes and drugs, counseling centers, Ayurvedic
salons, and any other institution running under the name of Ayurveda;
“Indigenous practitioners and Traditional practitioners” means all traditional, Ayurvedic, Siddha,
Yunani, homeopathy, practitioners registered or not registered with the Ayurvedic Medical Council
practicing in the North Western province.
32. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
12 - 852
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency
interpretation
Penalties
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.