

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
w;s úfYI
wxl 1656$34 - 2010 cqks 03 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2010'06'03
No. 1656/34  -  THURSDAY ,  JUNE   03,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Health Services Statute of Uva Provincial Council Bearing No. .............. of  2010
IT is notified that after a lapse of 10 days of publishing in the Gazette  this Notice will be submitted to the Uva
Provincial Council. If it is expected to submit any matter regarding the matters included in this Statute such matters
should be informed to me within 10 days of this notification.
A. M. B
UDDHADASA,
Minister of Uva Provincial Health Indigenous Medicine,
Probation and Childcare Affairs and Women Affairs.
Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Probation and
Children Affairs and Women Affairs,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
8th May, 2010.
1. This Statute is designated as “the Health Services Statute of Uva Province bearing
No.   . . . .of 2009” and will be effective from the date approved or on a later date ordered by the
Governor of Uva Province.
2.1 To activate the purposes of this Statute an Uva Provincial Health Services Department,
hereinafter mentioned as the “Department”, will be established according to the undermentioned
rules and regulations ;
Abbreviated
Designation and
data of
implementation.
Establishment of
the Provincial
Health Services
Department.
HEALTH  SERVICES  STATUTE  OF  UVA  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL   BEARING No. .........  OF  2010
A Statute to provide regulations to establish a Health Services Department of the Uva Provincial Council making
possible to maintain properly the service facilities required to uplift and  conserve the health conditions of the people
in Uva Province (Badulla and Moneragala Districts) and also to provide regulations to connected consequent matters
The Uva Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka enacts as follows :–

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
2A
2.2 Appointment of staff required to the Department, transfers, conduct of discipline should be done
either by the Provincial Governor or by some other officer authorized by him.
3. Under the general or special orders of the Provincial Minister in charge of Health and in
accordance with the National  Health Policy the workload of the Provincial Health Services Department
will be —
(i) maintained continuously all the treatment centres including Provincial General Hospitals,
Basic Hospital, District Hospitals, Peripheral Hospitals, Rural Hospitals, Maternity Homes,
Central Dispensaries maintained along with Maternity Homes, Central Dispensaries, Branch
Dispensaries, Health Centres, Medical Clinics and Specialised  Units (Excluding Teaching
Hospitals and Hospitals established for Special purposes) already established and that will
be established in the Uva Province.
(ii) establishment and maintenance of all institutes for disease eradicating purposes
including Health Medical Officers required for Public Health Services School Health
Services, Elders’ Health Services, Health Education, Family Health Services, Maternity
Safety Nutrition and Safety of Foods and Food Health and Environmental Health.
(iii) pereparation and implementation of Health Development Plans and Annual Health Plans
and preparation and implementation of Plans for Health problems arising at emergencies
for Uva Province.
(iv) supply of all requirements including infar-structure facilities for institutes mentioned
in Paragraph (i) and (ii) above in Uva Province.
(v) Decide the number of employees on the necessity of supplying the services mentioned in
Paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) above from time to time, take action to obtain the approval
of the relevant authorities for that purpose and to prepare the required programme to
enroll employees.
(vi) Provide facilities for local and foreign Post Graduate Education and Further Education for
persons assigned to Uva Provincial Health Institutes mentioned in Paragraphs (i) and (ii)
above.
4. The Governor of Uva Province should appoint an officer of the Senior Medical Administrative
Service as the Director of Uva Provincial Health Services (hereinafter mentioned as the “Director”) with the
agreement of the Secretary of the Health Ministry under the Government Health Minister and the Director
will have to act under the supervision and direction of the Secretary of the Provincial Health Ministry.
5. Thereafter, Deputy Provincial Health Services Director, Divisional Health Services Directors,
Assistant Divisional Health Services Directors, Medical Superintendents, Divisional Dental Surgeons,
Divisional Malaria Medical Officers, Medical Officers and other officers can be appointed to assist the
Provincial Health Services Director to perform the duties in this Statute.
Workload of the
Provincial
Health Services
Department.
Provincial
Health Services
Director.
Appointment of
Deputy
Provincial
Health Services
Director
Divisional
Health Services
Directors
Medical
Superintendents
Divisional
Dental Surgeons,
Divisional
Malaria Medical
officers, Medical
Officers and
other Officers.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
6. The Director can hand over the authority vested with him to activate the regulations and or
orders enacted under this Statute by a written document to other officers employed in the Department.
7. Two Divisional Health Services Directors can be appointed for Badulla and Moneragala
Districts and they must be responsible for activating and maintaining Health Services in those Districts.
8. All the officers and the minor staff working in the Uva Provincial Health Services Department
holding posts prior to the date of implementing this Statute should be considered as appointed
under this Statute after declaring their willingness to work in the Provincial Health Services Department.
9.1 Regarding the matters required to activate the authorities that will be vested with the Provincial
Health Services Department by this Statute the Provincial Health Minister will be able to enact
orders/regulations.
9.2  Every regulation/order enacted under this section should be published in the Gazette and
should be activated from the date it is published or on a later date mentioned therein.
9.3 After the publication of regulations and rules in the Gazette they should be submitted to the
Provincial Council for approval within a period of three months. An announcement regarding whether it is
approved or not approved by the Provincial Council should be published in the Gazette. In so publishing
it should be considered that the order is rescinded without damaging the duties and performances done
earlier under that order.
10.1 A Provincial Health Services Advisory Board should be appointed by the Provincial
Health Minister to give advises generally to him regarding the Uva Provincial Health Services Plan
Preparation and activating them.
10.2 The number of members in the Provincial Health Services Advisory Board (hereinafter
mentioned as “Advisory Board” should not exceed 15 members and must consist of the following :—
(i) Uva Provincial  Health Secretary ;
(ii) Uva Provincial  Health Services Director ;
(iii) Uva Provincial  Ayurveda Commissioner ;
(iv) Uva Provincial Education Director ;
(v) Uva Provincial  Local Government Commissioner ;
(vi) Uva Provincial  Social Services Director ;
(vii) Divisional Health Services Director in charge of Badulla and Moneragala Districts ;
(viii) Two doctors registered in the Government Medical Council and not in the Government
Service (so as to represent the two Districts).
(ix) Two persons from Non Government V oluntary Organization involved in Health and Social
Service affairs to represent Badulla and Moneragala Districts,
(x) Three Trade Union Representatives involved in Health Service (this representation should
be Para Medical, Nursing and Minor Trade Services).
Powers of the
Provincial
Health Services
Director can be
handed over to
officers under
him.
Appointment of
Divisional
Health Srvices
Directors to
Administrative
Districts.
Consideration of
present Health
Services Staff as
appointed under
this Stutute.
Regulations can
be enacted.
Provincial
Health Services
Advisory Board.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
4A
10.3 The Provincial Health Secretary should be the President of the Advisory Board and the
Provincial Health Services Director should act as the Secretary.
10.4 Members from (i) to (vii) above are appointed ex-officio and members from (viii) to (x) above
should be appointed by the Provincial Health Minister. The Minister has the authority to dismiss
the members appointed by him any time.
10.5 The service period of the Advisory Board will be 3 years.
10.6 The quorum should be 08 for Advisory Board meetings and should meet at least once
in three months.
10.7 The service period of every member appointed ex-officio  to be a member of the Advisory Board
will  be the period as long as he/she holds that post.
10.8 Every member can hold the membership for a period of three years from the date he/she is
appointed unless the post held falls vacant early due to resignation, death or dismissal from the post by the
Minister or some other manner and is not and will not be disqualified for re-appointment.
10.9 When the post falls vacant due to the appointed member dying, resigning, being dismissed from
the post or some other manner another person should be appointed by the Minister as a successor for that
member. Such appointed member should hold the post for the balance period of his predecessor.
10.10 A member-attending a session of an Advisory Board meeting can be paid an allowance and
that allowance will be decided by the Provincial Health Minister on the Agreement of the Provincial
Governor.
10.11 The duties of the Advisory Board are  to submit proposals, regarding general policy matters the
Provincial Health Minister thinks should be referred to the Advisory Board for a decision, and for the
Development of Provincial Health by identifying the requirements of the Province in accordance with the
Provincial Health Development Plan.
11. Considering the population growth, extent of land, spread of diseases, nutrition situation,
environmental influences transport facilities etc., as a base, recommendations regarding the setting up of
permanent or temporary new health institutes, re-organization of Health Administrative Divisions etc.,
should be forwarded to the Secretary of the Ministry by the Provincial Director and should be implemented
after obtaining the approval of the Minister.
12. An officer either from the Uva Provincial Health Ministry or the Provincial Health Department
properly authorized either by the Secretary of the Health Ministry or by the Director of Provincial
Health Services is entitled to enter or inspect any Health Institute or any institute considered to be
necessary for public health needs or a land such institutes are located and to obtain statements
information, photographs or documents or their copies from the persons employed in that institute
or from the people who have come to obtain services.
13. It should be considered that all the Health institutes in the Uva Province at present and all the
movable and fixed properties relevant to them as vested with the Provincial Health Services Department.
14. The Director of Provincial Health services should prepare Provincial Health Development
Plan for every coming year based on the population growth relative to the land extent spread of diseases,
nutrition situation, environmental influences, transport facilities and other health-wise criteria in the
Qualifications
for membership.
Payment of an
allowance.
Duties of
Advisory Board.
Setting up of
Health Institutes
and re-organizing
Health Divisions.
Authority to
inspect Health
Institutes.
Trusteeship of
movable and
fixed properties.
Annual Health
Development
Plan.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
Uva Province and with his recommendations should forward to the Secretary of the Health Ministry
before the 30th of September every year. Agreement of the Advisory Board should be obtained
for this Annual Health Development Plan.
14.2 Development affairs and new building construction affairs relevant to all the Health
Institutes in the Uva Province should be included in this Plan.
15. A detailed report including statistics regarding the progress of the Annual Development
Plan after implementing it and his conclusion and recommendations regarding them should be forwarded
to the Ministry by the Director of Provincial Health Services in the first quarter of every year.
16. While the Provincial Director has the authority to look into the health situation in the Local
Government territories in the Uva Province and activate the required health service affairs he can inform
the Local Government authorities to forward the statistics regarding the health situation in those areas
when required and the local Government authorities  should act accordingly.
17. When maintaining patient treating services it is the responsibility of the Provincial Director
to supply cooked meals to the resident patients and the minor staff of the Hospitals. In this supply
of meals the Director should take action to get cooked meals supplied by calling for public tenders and
selecting a suitable supplier, or through an organization mentioned in the Procurement Guidance
Code qualified to get the tender outside the open tender procedure or through a lawfully formed
Hospital Committee or to get this service supplied by purchasing raw food materials from a Co-operative
Society and cooked by the hospitals staff or by the hospital committee.
17.1 The Provincial Health Services Director or Deputy Provincial Health Services Director
or an officer authorized by them can check and control the Pharmacies in the Province under this Statute.
17.2 As such, legal action can also be taken under this statute it is understood that any kind of
injustice is happening.
18.1 Money allocations required for the Department of Uva Provincial Health Services will be
provided by Annual Budget Declaration of the Provincial Council and other foreign aid Projects and also
from Supplementary Estimates submitted when required.
18.2  Accounts affairs of this Department will come under the auditing of the Auditor General,
Internal Audit Unit of the Chief Secretary’s Office and also the Provincial Ministry.
19.1 The Provincial Health Secretary can appoint a committee (hereinafter mentioned as the
“Hospital Committee”) with the approval of Provincial Health Minister consisting of the following
members to obtain the  participation of the public for the development and rehabilitation affairs of
General Hospitals, Basic Hospitals, District Hospitals, Peripheral Units and Rural Hospitals (falling under
the Provincial Council Health Ministry) situated in the Uva Province. The number of members in this is
limited to a maximum of  25.
(i) Medical Officer in charge of the institute,
(ii) Divisional Secretary of the area the hospital is situated or a representative,
(iii) Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha or a representative of the territory of Pradeshiya Sabha
where the hospital is situated,
(iv) Divisional Engineer (Buildings) or a representative of the relevant area where the hospital is
situated,
Annual Report
regarding the
Provincial
Health situation.
Health affairs
 in Local
Government
Institute
territories
Supply of
cooked meals
Money
allocations and
auditing.
Establishment of
Hospital
Development
Committees and
their
composition.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
6A
(v) Police Officer in charge of the Police Station of the area where the hospital is situated,
(vi) Principals of the schools in the area where the hospital is situated,
(vii) Three members of the hospital staff,
(viii) Representation from the clergy,
(ix) Two Divisional Distinguished persons,
(x) Two representatives from the Divisional Community Organizations,
(xi) Two Representatives from non-government organizations functioning Divisionally in the
area the hospital is situated.
19.2 Medical Officer in charge of the institute will be the ex-officio Chairman of the Committee.
A suitable secretary should be selected at the inaugural Council meeting.
19.3 (i) The main responsibility of the Hospital Committee will be the development of the health
institute and to provide an efficient hospital service to the public with a proper
management under the orders and instructions given by the Provincial Ministry in accordance
with the National criteria of the Health Ministry of the Central Government.
(ii) In the Hospital Development affair the Secretary has authority to handover constructions
and repairs or supplying of services to this Committee outside the tender procedure.
There the financial limits enacted or to be enacted in the future by the Central Government
should be adopted.
19.4 The official period of the Committee is 02 years.
19.5 Hospital Committees functioning already should be considered as Hospital Committee
appointed under this Statute.
20. A suitable Constitution can be prepared through the orders enacted by the Minister for the
management of the Committee.
21. (i) Governor of Uva Province as the “Governor”,
(ii) Minister in charge of Health subject in Uva Province as the “Minister”, in an instance where
the Provincial Council is dissolved Honourable Governor of Uva  Province as the Minister in
charge of Uva Provincial Health subject.
(iii) Secretary of the Uva Provincial Health Ministry as the “Secretary”,
(iv) The Head in charge of Uva Provincial Health Services as the “Director”,
(v) Uva Provincial Health Services Department as the “Department”,
(vi) Uva Provincial Territory shown in the 13th Amendment of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as the “Province”,
(vii) Provincial Council Established for Uva Province including the two Districts Badulla
and Moneragala as the “Provincial Council”,
(viii)Districts Heads in charge of health affairs in Badulla and Moneragala Districts as
“Divisional Health Services Directors”.
If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhalese, Tamil and English versions of this, Statute the Sinhalese
version should be effective.
06-337/1
Responsibility of
the Hospital
Committee
Committee
Constitutions.
Interpretation.
Discrepancy

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
AYURVEDIC  AND  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE  SERVICES
Statute  Draft of  Uva Provincial Council Bearing No.   . . . .of  2010
IT is notified that after a lapse of 10 days of publishing in the Gazette  this Notice will be submitted to the Uva
Provincial Council. If it is expected to submit any matter regarding the matters included in this Statute such matters
should be informed to me within 10 days of this notification.
A. M. BUDDHADASA,
Minister of Uva Provincial Health, Indigenous Medicine,
Probation and Childcare Affairs and Women Affairs.
Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Probation and
Children Affairs and Women Affairs,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
8th May, 2010.
In accordance with the authority vested with the Provincial Council by Section 12 Sub-schedule  09 of
Amendment 13 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Uva
Provincial Council enacts as follows:–
1. This Statute will be defined as “the Uva Provincial Ayurveda and Indigenous Medicine Services
Statute bearing No. ..... of 2009” and will be implemented from a date approved or on  a later date to be
approved by the Governor of Uva Province.
2.1 An Uva Provincial Ayurveda Department (hereinafter mentioned as “the Department”) will be
established to fulfill the objectives and purposes mentioned hereafter.
2.2 The Department should function  to fulfill the following objectives and purposes subject to the
allocations made by the Uva Provincial Council. Namely ;
Abbreviated
Designation and
Date of
Implementation.
Establishing the
Ayurveda
Department.
Objectives and
purposes.
STATUTE  OF  A YURVEDIC  AND  INDIGENOUS  MEDICINE  SERVICES  BEARING  No.  . . . .OF 2010 OF
 UVA  PROVINCE
A Statute enacted to provide regulations to establish an Uva Provincial Ayurvedic Department for the conservation,
development and expansion of Indigenous Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani  medicine methods in respect of Healthi
of the people of Uva Province, to enroll the staff relevant to it,  to establish affiliated Ayurveda institutes including
Ayurveda hospitals, and for their efficient  functioning, to set up Hospital Committees, skilled Management Board,
Ayurveda Conservation Committees and Advisory  Committees and maintain them properly and to fulfill other
consequent matters

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
8A
(a) To provide health protection and improvement and treatment facilities in respect of
healthiness of the people and to set up institutes required for primary health
development and supply services ;
(b) To provide facilities necessary to establish Ayurveda Community Health Improvement
Units at Divisional Secretariat levels.
(c) to examine sicknesses according to Ayurvedaya and act for the development of public
health and give encouragement to ,
(d) To present scholarships or other facilities to employees or proposed to be employed in
the Department , offer financial aids or other helps to institutes supplying educational
course or involved in research affairs regarding Ayurvedaya and encourage study of
Ayurvedaya and related research affairs.
(e) To conserve and develop hereditary and indigenous medicine methods and improve their
condition.
(f) Establish and provide facilities required to maintain a Provincial Ayurveda Museum to
safeguard hereditary medicine knowledge, talipot books and medical equipment pertinent to
Uva Proinvce.
(g) To maintain here gardens and nurseries in the Province provide maintenance and required
facilities and influence to implement a self employment programme under that.
(h) To set up a Provincial Drugs manufactory to manufacture finished drugs required to the
Province.
(i) Popularise indigenous Medicine methods by joining with Tourist Industry and create income
generating methods.
(j) Give assistance for co-ordination required to purchase dangerous drugs.
3.1  A Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner should be appointed to act as the Head of the
Ayurveda Department established in relevant to objectives and purposes mentioned in this Statute.
3.2  Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner should be a Medical officer of Sri Lanka Ayurveda
Service and has to be appointed in relevance to Section 32 of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987
by the Governor of Uva Province.
3.3  Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner should perform under the orders and guidance of the
Secretary of the Uva Provincial Indigenous Medicine Ministry.
4.1  Other Officers including Deputy and Assistant Ayurveda Commissioners required for the
approved staff thought that may be necessary by the Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner to perform the
workload of his Department should be appointed either by the Governor of Uva Province or the Uva
Provincial Council Public Service Commission.
4.2  All the officers and employees working in the Uva Provincial Ayurveda Department holding
approved posts prior to the date of implementing this Statute should be considered as appointed
under this Statute after declaring their consent to serve in Provincial Council Service.
4.3  All the officers and employees appointed for the duties of this Statute should be considered as
appropriate employees of the Provincial Government Service under Section 32 of Provincial Act, No. 42 of
1987.
Provincial
Ayurveda
Commissioner
Appointment of
staff and other
employees

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
5. The Ayurveda Commissioner has the following powers subjected to the final recommendations
arrived by the Statutory institute established under this Statute.
(a) In performing the objectives mentioned in Section 2.2, the Commissioner should established
Ayurveda Hospitals, Ayurveda Drug Manufacturies, Ayurveda Drugs Deposits, Ayurveda
Treatment Centres, Ayurveda Drugs stores, Herb Gardens and Nurseries, Ayurveda  Drug
shops and Provincial District, Divisional Indigenous Medicine and Ayurveda
Conservation Committees, maintain them or allow to establish and maintain them or give
assistance.
(b) To function under the final recommendations arrived by the statutory institutes established
under this Statute.
(c) Maintain the data and statistics of the institutes established under this Statute methodically
and up to date.
(d) Check whether all the statutory institutes established under this Statutes are maintained
with high quality standards and according to present recommendations and submit
reports from  time to time to the Minister and the relevant statutory institutes regarding them.
(e) Register the Ayurveda institutes controlled by the Provincial Ayurveda Drug Central Board
and issue certificates according to the recommendations of that Board.
6. An Advisory Board should be established to advise the Minister in charge in achieving the
expected objectives in this Statute. That Advisory Board should be appointed by the Minister and its
composition will be as follows :—
(a) Secretary in charge of the Indigenous medicine subject,
(b) Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner,
(c) A representative appointed by the Minister in charge of Provincial Indigenous Medicine,
(d) A retired Executive Officer in the Administrative Service or Education field,
(e) Provincial Health Services Director or his representative,
(f) A representative from the Board of Lecturers named by the Vice Chancellor of Uva Wellasasa
University,
(g) Two members of Ayurveda Conservation Boards to represent Badulla and Moneragala
Districts.
7. A certain amount from the financial allocations approved by the Parliament and the Provincial
Council in respect of fulfilling the objectives in Section 2.2 the Commissioner with the prior approval of the
Minister can award to :
(a) Provincial Ayurveda Education and Training Management Board,
(b) Provincial Ayurveda Research Board,
(c) Provincial Ayurveda Drug Control Board,
(d) Some other institute set up and maintained for the development and conservation of
Ayurvedaya,
(e) Some other person or persons eligible to maintain Ayurveda Education affairs,
(f) and also to Provincial, District and Divisional Ayurveda Conservation Committees.
Powers and
duties of
Ayurveda
Commissioner
Establishment of
an Advisory
Board.
Financial aid
given by the
Commissioner.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
10A
8.1 After an Ayurveda Hospital, an Ayurveda Treatment Centre an Ayurveda Drug Manufactory,
an Ayurveda Drug Deposit herb park, an Ayurveda Drug Store, or an Ayurveda Drug Shop in a
certain place at present is registered by the Commissioner and unless the person maintaining
that   Hospital, Drug Manufactury, Drug Deposit, Treatment Centre, Drug Store or Drug Shop, Ayurveda
Care Centre in that place is registered by the Commissioner as the owner, from and after a date that can be
fixed by an order by the Minister published in the Gazette in that regard, any place should not be
utilized as an Ayurveda Hospital, an Ayurveda Treatment centre, an Ayurveda Drug Manufactory,
an Ayurveda Drug Deposit, an Ayurveda Drug Store or a shop and an Ayurveda Care Centre.
8.2  The date fixed by an order published under Sub-section 1 should not be a date this side of
three months from the date of such publication.
8.3 In an instance where a certain place is utilized for duties of an Ayurveda Hospital, an Ayurveda
Treatment Centre, an Ayurveda Drug Manufactory, an Ayurveda Drug Deposit, Herb Park, an
Ayurveda Drug Store or an Ayurveda Drug Shop, an Ayurveda Care Centre by breaching the Regulations
in subsection 1 in this, the owner or the person in charge of that Hospital, that Drug Manufactory,
that Drug Deposit, that Treatment Centre that Herb Park, that Drug Store or that Drug Shop that
Care Centre is doing an offence under this Statute. Legal action should be taken against such a person.
9. The Minister can formulate orders under this Statute in respect of either one or all of the matters
mentioned below :—
(a) Submitting applications to register a certain place as an Ayurveda Hospital, an Ayurveda
Treatment Centre, an Ayurveda Drug Manufactory, an Ayurveda Drug Deposit, a Herb Park,
an Ayurveda Drug Store or an Ayurveda Drug Shop, an Ayurveda Care Centre.
(b) The Specimen of that Application and details that should be entered.
(c) The duration that Registration should be valid and issue of certificate regarding the renewal
of registration after  the payment of the specified fee,
(d) Instances where the renewal of that registration can be rejected,
(e) The finality regarding the decisions given by the Minister in respect of appeals submitted to
the Minister against the refusals of applications made either for that registration or renewal of
the registration and the cancellation of the registration.
(f) specifications and conditions that should be followed regarding the registered Ayurveda
Hospitals, Ayurveda Drug Manufacturies, Ayurveda Drug Deposits, Herb Parks, Ayurveda
Treatment Centre, Ayurveda Drug Stores or Ayurveda shops, Ayurveda Care Centres.
(g) Reports, Bank Statements and ledgers that should be maintained by them,
(h) Reports that should be supplied from time to time regarding relevant institutes and the details
that should be given in those Reports including statistics of patients admitted to those
institutes and treated by those institutes and particulars of the employees involved in them,
(i) Specifications regarding the fees that can be charged or charges by the relevant institutes,
(j) Powers regarding entrances to those institutes and inspections,
Ayurveda
Hospitals
Ayurveda Drug,
Manufacturies
Ayurveda Drug
Deposits, Herb
Parks, Ayurveda
Treatment
Centres,
Ayurveda
Dispensaries
Ayurveda Drug
Shops and
Ayurveda Care
Centres should be
registered.
The Minister can
enact regula-
tions.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
(k) Registers that should be kept and maintained by the Commissioner regarding the registration
of relevant centres,
(l) Health safety of patients taking treatments in those institutes, proper treatments and service
facilities,
10. A certain portion of the drugs required for treatments of patients at Free Ayurveda Dispensaries
maintained by the Local Government Department in Uva Province can be supplied from the drugs
manufactured at the Uva Provincial Drug Manufactory.
11.1 A Provincial Ayurveda Account (hereinafter mentioned as “Ayurveda Account”) should be
opened to achieve the purposes mentioned in Section 2.2 and to accomplish the purposes that will be
declared through regulations enacted under this Statute.
11.2 The Account should be opened by  allocating a sum of Rs. 500,000/- from Provincial Council
Budget as an initial contribution.
11.3 Financial allocations mentioned in Section 7 should be credited to this Ayurveda Account from
the Provincial Council Fund and the money in this Account can be used to fulfill the above purposes.
11.4  In addition to the allocation mentioned in Section 11.2 and 11.3 above a portion of the annual
income of Local Government  institutes can be credited annually to this Account with the willingness of
those institutes to settle the expenses incurred in respect of drugs supplied to Local Government institutes.
11.5  Local and foreign gifts, aids and grants received in the name of Ayurveda Department should be
credited to the Account.
12.1  Management of the Account should be dome by a Management Board of five persons.
12.2 The Management Board of this Account should consist of the following members :
(1) Secretary of the Uva Provincial Indigenous Medicine Ministry.
(2) Uva Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner,
(3) A representative of Uva Provincial Chief Secretary,
(4) Uva Provincial Local Government Commissioner or his representative,
(5) A doctor in the Indigenous or hereditary or Ayurveda Medicine field appointed by the
Ministere-in-charge of the subject,
13.1 All the money received to the Account should be accounted as specified and auditing should be
done annually by the auditor General and Director of Internal Auditing.
13.2 Financial Year of the Account is the Calendar year.
14.1 Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner is bound to submit the Financial Statement of the Account
to the Auditor General, Director of Internal Auditing, Secretary of the Ministry and the Chief Secretary
before 30trh of April of every year.
14.2 The Chairman of the Management Board is the Secretary of the Uva Provincial Indigenous
Medicine Ministry and its Secretary is the Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner.
Free Ayurveda
Dispensaries
Provincial
Ayurveda
Account
Money received
to the Account
from other
sources.
Composition of
the Manage-
ment. Board of
the Account.
Auditing.
Responsibility of
Provincial
Ayurveda
Commissioner
rearding the
Account.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
12A
14.3  The account of this Account should be in accordance with the regulations of Section 19
of Part III of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
14.4   A suitable constitution must be prepared by the Secretary of Uva Provincial Indigenous
Medicine Ministry and should be published in the Gazette with the approval of the Minister in charge of
the subject.
15.1 Steps must be taken to establish herb parks and drugs nurseries in premises of Ayurveda
hospitals, Central Dispensaries, selected schools and Government institutes in the Province with the
purpose of conservation of Ayurveda indigenous drugs and plants going extinct, place nameboards to
identify them and educate people.
15.2 When obtaining Crown land for setting up of herb parks it should be done according to the
regulations enacted under Government Land Ordinance Act No. 08 of 1947 which is the Authority No. 454.
15.3 It is the responsibility of the Divisional Ayurveda Conservation Sabhas mentioned hereafter to
maintain herb parks and to maintain nurseries under the supervision of Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner.
15.4  It is legal to sell plants from the drug plants nurseries under this Statute.
16.1  A board by the designation Provincial Ayurveda Education and Training Management Board,
hereinafter mentioned as the “Board” should be established.
16.2  The Board should consist the following members :—
(a) Ayurveda Commissioner,
(b) Deputy Ayurveda Commissioner,
(c) Directors of the Diyatalawa Ayurveda Hospital and Medagama Ayurveda Hospital,
(d) Two doctors from other Ayurveda institutes and Local Government institutes appointed on
the recommendation of the Minister,
(e) Three doctors indigenously, hereditary or institutionally trained and not in Government
Service selected on the recommendation of the Minister,
(f) A suitable constitution should be prepared for the duties of this Provincial Ayurveda
Education and training Board and should be published in the Gazette on the approval of the
Minister of Indigenous Medicine,
(g) Its official period is 03 years and the quorum should not be less than 1/3.
17. The Training Management Board should have the following powers :—
(a) Identify and implement training requirements in the Government sector relevant to Provincial
Ayurveda,
(b) Identify and implement training requirements of hereditary and indigenous doctors in the
Province,
(c) Decide and maintain appropriate courses for other services relevant to Ayurveda sector,
(d) Present scholarships, aids to students and other gifts and aids to person  involved in
Ayurveda education,
(e) Implement and manage education systems and training programmes,
(f) Appoint a trained staff,
(g) Submit recommendations to the Ayurveda Medical Council to present awards, commendation
or certificates.
Establishment of
Herb Parks
Establishment of
Provincial
Ayurveda
Education and
Training
Management
Board
Powers of the
Board

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
18.1 An institute defined as Uva Provincial Ayurveda Research Board, hereinafter mentioned as
Research Board, should be established,
18.2 The Minister should appoint Deputy Ayurveda Commissioner mentioned in Section 4.1 of this
Statute as the Director of the Research Board,
18.3 The Research Board should consist of the following number of members :
(a) Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner,
(b) Director of Nawinna Ayurveda Research Institute or his representative,
(c) An officer assigned to the Ayurveda Community Health Service named by the Provincial
Ayurveda Commissioner,
(d) One person from the Specialist Doctors appointed on the recommendations of the Minister,
(e) Director of the Ayurveda Hospital at Diyatalawa,
(f) Medical Superintendent of the Medagama Ayurveda Hospital,
(g) Two doctors employed in the Provincial or Local Government Service,
(h) A doctor from hereditary or indigenous Ayurveda doctors appointed on the recommendation
of the Minister.
18.4 The Service period of the Research Board is 03 years and the quorum should not be less
than 1/3.
18.5 A constitution relevant to the duties  of the above Provincial Research Board should be
prepared by the Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner and with the agreements of the Secretary of the
Provincial Indigenous Medicine Ministry and the Minister of Provincial Indigenous Medicine should be
published in the Gazette.
19. The responsibility regarding the conduct of research affairs in all the sectors in the Ayurvedaya
with the idea of Ayurveda development and the improvement of such affairs and specially regarding
the under mentioned duties is entrusted to the Research Board established under section 18.1 above :
(a) Preparation and operation of a Research Policy,
(b) Establishment and maintenance of an Ayurveda Museum that  can conserve hereditary
knowledge,
(c) conduct research affairs regarding herbs, raw drugs, finished drugs and various produces,
(d) Conduct research affairs according to current requirements regarding sickness histories,
sicknesses and remedial methods required for them,
(e) Management of Ayurveda researches and  such Research Centres,
(f) Actions regarding the following :—
(i) Ayurveda Literature,
(ii) Principles of Ayurveda Science,
(iii) Ayurveda Chemetheraphy,
(iv) Astrology, rituals, secret treatment methods and other affiliated remedy methods,
(v)  Research regarding other indigenous, natural medicine methods confirming to
Ayurvedaya.
(g) Research affairs regarding material Medica,
(h) Research regarding Ayurvedaya relevant to plants and animals,
Establishment of
Provincial
Ayurveda
Research Board.
Workload of the
Board.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
14A
(i) it is the responsibility of the Research Board to adhere to the specifications issued by the
Ayurveda Medical Council from time to time relevant to research affairs and the declare the
research policies,
(j) Pay attention and take action to control invasive and migratory plants harmful to herbs
required to the Ayurvedaya.
20. The following powers should be with the Research Board :
(a) To recommend to enact regulations for Research Institutes research affairs and researchers,
(b) To prepare a Proposed Research Programme for each year all maintain the research indictors
done early to date,
(c) Appointment of Management Sub-committees for Ayurveda Research institute Established
under this Statute and enact by-laws relevant to it,
(d) to obtain indigenous, hereditary or other current inter-connected co-operation thought to
be suitable by the Research Board at times the Research Board decides necessary for
Ayurveda affairs,
(e) To obtain the co-operation of the unions in the Institute,
(f) If the research results performed under the directions of the Ayurveda Department is enjoyed
by a certain local or foreign person, a company or an institute outside the Ayurveda
Department, there is a rite to obtain financial or other similar benefits and to enter into
necessary methods of action,
(g) A staff decided from time to time should be appointed to accomplished the above mentioned
duties.
21.1. A Provincial Ayurveda Appraisal Board, hereinafter mentioned as “Appraisal Board” should
be established,
21.2 One of the Deputy of Assistant Ayurveda Commissioners mentioned in section 4.1 of this
Statute should be appointed as the Director of the Drug Appraisal Board by the Minister.
21.3 Drug Appraisal Board should consist of the following number of members :—
(a) Chief Medical Officer of the Provincial Drug Manufactory,
(b) Chief Apothecary of the Provincial Drug Manufactory,
(c) One of the doctors form the Board of lecturers in the Provincial Educational Institutes
appointed on the recommendation of the Minister,
(d) One person from the heads of registered Ayurveda Drug Manufacturies in the Province
appointed on the recommendation of the Minister.
22. The Provincial Drug Appraisal Board should have the following powers :—
(a) Create and activates a Drug Policy in the Province,
(b) Regularise the distribution and usage of drugs in the Province,
(c) Regularise the supervision of State and private Ayurveda Drug Manufacturies in the Province
and introduce standards,
(d) Safeguard the qualitiness of drugs and certify that they are not dangerous,
Powers of the
Board
Provincial
Ayurveda
Appraisal Board.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
(e) Ensure that all the Ayurveda drugs are prepared under the legal regulations in Ayurveda
Act, No. 31 of 1961 and relevant Amendments Acts and Sri Lanka Ayurveda Drugs Code,
(f) Submit recommendations to the Ayurveda Commissioner to take legal action regarding
products made violating dangerous as well as other consequent Ordinances,
(g) Establishment of places marketing Ayurveda drug products in the Province, charge
registration fees, train and appoint dispersers and cancel registration,
(h) Identify, introduce and implement other legal allocations prevailing as at present regarding
Ayurveda drugs and maintaining drug deposits,
(i) Exporting Ayurveda finished drugs, dry and raw herbs and obtaining patent permits for
herbs pertinent to Uva Province should be done on the recommendation of the Provincial
Ayurveda Commissioner on the approval of the Secretary of the Provincial Ministry,
(j) Recommend to issue permits required to transport natural herbs in Uva Province to outside
places and to fix charges.
23.1 Service period for all the Boards is 03 years.
23.2 Service period can be terminated after a notification published in the Gazette according to the
discretion of the Minister,
23.3   Quorum of a Board should not be less than 1/3.
23.4 Meeting of all the boards should be held at least once a month,
23.5 A remuneration approved by the Minister can be paid to the members for a session of meetings
of the Boards.
23.6 Non-attendance for 03 meeting sessions will cause the abolishment of the membership.
24.1 Hospital Development Committee should be established in all the Ayurveda Hospitals and
Central Dispensaries with the purpose of providing a good quality service by the Ayurveda Hospitals and
Ayurveda Central Dispensaries and required facilities and instructions regarding their development and to
have a close relationship with the general public.
24.2 Such Ayurveda Hospital Committees should consist of the following persons :—
(a) Doctor in charge of the Institute should be the Chairman of the Committee and the Uva
Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner, Head of Local Government Institutes and Divisional
Secretary will be ex-officio patrons of the  committee, Agreement of the Minister of Provincial
Indigenous Medicine should be obtained for this Committee.
(b) Convener of the Committee should be the Secretary of the Committee, The secretary should
be appointed from the Committee members.
24.3 The following members should be appointed as Committee members :—
(a) Chairman of the Divisional Sasanarakashaka Bala Mandalaya of the Reverend Registrar
(b) Chairman of the Mediation Board,
(c) A representative from the educational field of the area,
General matters
for all the
Boards.
Establishment of
Ayurveda
Hospital
Committee.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
16A
(d) A Lawyer or a Justice of peace residing in the area,
(e) Chairman or the Secretary of the Ayurveda Conservation Committee,
(f) Cultural Officer, Social Services Officer, Samurdhi Development Officer, Agro Research
Production Assistant Agro Instructor, Agrarian Services Development Officer,
(g) A religious leader in the area,
(h) Grama Seva Niladhari,
(i) A distinguished person in the area,
(j) Ayurveda Community Health Medical Officer in the area,
25.1 A Hospital Development Fund can be maintained by the Hospital Committee and it should be
properly accounted.
25.2 This Fund should be audited annually by the Auditor General and the internal Audit Director.
25.3 Financial year of the Fund is the calendar year.
25.4 A Constitution relevant to perform the duties and performances of the above Hospital committee
should be prepared and with the agreement of the Minister published in the Gazette.
25.5 Prior approval of the provincial Ayurveda Commissioner should be obtained for expenditure of
Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 50,000 from the fund and approval from the Secretary of the Ministry for expenditure more
than that.
25.6 Service period of all the members is 03 years.
25.7 The Minister has the authority to dismiss of appoint a member in the Hospital Committee and to
dissolve Committees.
25.8 Any member of the Committee can resign anytime by informing the Minister in writing. Accepting
or rejecting the resignation will be on the discretion of the Minister.
25.9 Quorum for a Committee meeting should not be less than 1/3.
25.10 The chair of Committee meetings should be held by the Chairman and in his absence the
Chairman appointed by the majority consent of the members  has the authority to continue the meeting.
Decision taken by that Committee should be in order.
25.11 The Committee should meet at least once in two months and the Committee report should be
produced to the Provincial Ayurveda Commissioner by the Secretary.
25.12 None of the Committee members or their spouses or a member of their families should be
involved in any supply or purchase contract agreement.
25.13 If any thing mentioned in Section 25.12 is revealed the Secretary of the Committee should
forward recommendations to the Minister for the dismissal of that member after a proper inquiry.
25.14  Other than during the time allowed in writing by the Head of an institute to attend to his duty,
no member should enter or inspect the institute alone any time.
Responsibilities
and workload of
the committee.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
26. Area including Badulla and Moneragala Admininstrative Districts as “Uva Province”.
Governor of Uva Province as “Governor”.
Cabinet of the Uva Provincial Council as the “Cabinet”.
Minister in charge of  Uva Provincial Indigenous Medicine as “Minister”. In an instance the
Provincial Council is dissolve the Honourable Governor as the Minister.
Chief Secretary  of  Uva Provincial Council as “Chief Secretarty”
Secretary of the Uva Provincial Indigenous Medicine Minister as “Secretary”.
Ayurveda Commissioner of Uva Provincial Council as “Commissioner”.
Municipal Councils, Urban Councils and Pradeshiya Sabhas in Uva Province as “Local
Government Institutes”.
To  Ayurvedaya, medical methods and surgeries in Ayurvedaya Siddha, Unani and indigenous
remedial methods, Peancha Karma treatment methods, Spa treatment methods, some
other medical methods indigenous of different countries and accepted as such by the
governments of different countries are included. And also certain treatment method or
methods herbal, natural, indigenouos, alternative, parallel, eastern hereditary, over-all
and or with a similar meaning activated in Sri Lanka or method or methods of sickness
eradicating or health development are included.
“Indigenous doctor and Hereditary Doctor” mean all the Local doctors registered or
unregistered so far residing in the Province.
“Other consequent services” mean astrologers and persons involved in spiritualism.
“Herb parks” mean parks with flora and kind of plants used in indigenous, hereditary and
Ayurveda medicine science.
27. If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhalese, Tamil and English versions of this Statute the
Sinhalese version should be in force.
06-337/2
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Orphaned, Abandoned  and  Destitute  Children  Homes  Statute  of   Uva provincial  Council
Bearing  No.   . . .  of   2010
IT is notified that after a lapse of 10 days of publishing in the Gazette this Notice will be submitted to the Uva Provincial
Council. If it is expected to submit any proposal regarding the matters included in this Notice such matters should be
informed to me within 10 days of this notification.
A. M. Buddhadasa,
Minister of Uva Provnicial Health, Indigenous Medicine,
 Probation and Childcare Affairs and Women Affairs.
Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Probation and
Children Affairs and Women Affairs,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
8th May, 2010.
Interpretation.
Discrepancy.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
18A
01. This Statute will be defined as “orphaned, Abandoned and destitute Children Home
Statute bearing No. . . . . . of 2009 of Uva Provincial Council” and will be activated from the date approved
or on a later date ordered by the Governor of Uva Province.
02. The Manager of a Children Home for Orphaned, abandoned and destitute Children (Hereinafter
mentioned as “Children Home”) providing resident protection for orphaned, abandoned and destitute
children within the age group of 05 to 18 years, should forward an application to the Uva Provincial
Probation Officer for the registration of that home ;
03. All the Children homes functioning in the Uva Province should be registered under this Statute.
Every children home applying for registration should abide by the following rules and conditions :-
(a) A home should be maintained by a V oluntary Organization of which the purpose is to
maintain a children home,
(b) It should consist of a Management Board (Hereinafter mentioned as the “Board”) with a
Chairman, Vice Chairman, a Secretary, a Treasurer and a Manager,
(c) Three members of the Board should be permanent resident of the area where the children
home is situated,
(d) The home should function according  to the standards and procedures stated in the
announcements published in the Gazette by the Provincial probation and Childcare
Commissioner from time to time.
04. When either an application or a complaint regarding maintenance of a children home without
an approval, is received by the Uva Provincial Probation Officer he should order an officer working
in the Uva Provincial Probation Department to submit a report regarding the following matters within a
period of 04 weeks :–
(a) Whether maximum welfare facilities are received by the children in the children home from
that children home.
(b) Whether it has functioned according to the standards ordered in Section 3 by the Uva
Provincial Probation Commissioner.
05. After the Report under Section 04 is received Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner or and
officer authorized by him is able to enter this children home any time to investigate whether the resident
children’s welfare is provided by that home and whether it has functioned according to the expected
standards.
UVA  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL   STATUTE   OF  ORPHANED,  ABANDONED  AND  DESTITUTE  CHILDREN  HOMES
BEARING No.   . . .  OF  2010
A Statute to provide regulations for the Registration of Institutes for the maintenance and protection of Orphaned,
Abandoned and destitute children living in the Uva Province, for their supervision, regularisation of Management
and also to provide regulations for other connected and consequent matters
THIS Statute is in accordance with the Orphanege Act which is Authority No. 142, Uva Provincial Council of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka enact as follows :-
Abbreviated
Designation and
date of
implementation.
Establishment of
a Children
Home.
Requirements for
registration.
Obtaining
reports.
Personal
inspection.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
06. If the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner is reasonably satisfied after the inspection
in Section 05,
(a) within 5 months, if the children home has been opened prior to the date of implementing this
Statute.
(b) within 6 months, if the application for registration is submitted after the date of implementing
this Statute.
(c) and within  6 months after the approval of this Statute if the children home is an already
registered children home.
The Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner should take action to register that children
home.
7.1 The Board should perform at least 10% of the standards expected by the Uva Provincial
Probation Commissioner.
7.2 The Manager of every children home should enter into an agreement with the Uva Provincial
Probation Commissioner accepting to fulfill the remaining standards requirements within a period of
three years after registration of the children home.
8.1 Regarding the registration of the children home the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner
should issue a Certificate of Registration on the specified form to the Manager in charge of that Children
Home.
8.2 In respect of every children home registered by him the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner
should maintain a Registration including the name of that Children Home, Address, Number and date of
Registration, and if there is a voluntary organization, its name and any other particulars the Commissioner
thinks necessary.
9. If by an investigation it is proved that the children home has failed to function according
to the required standards and that children do not have the requirements mentioned in Section 03
the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner should inform the Manager that the children home can not
be registered (Ordering the general standards to uplift the service conditions of voluntary children
homes are shown in Annexure 01).
10. The Manager of a certain children home not satisfied with the notice issued by the Uva
Provincial Probation Commissioner rejecting the registration, should forward an appeal within 30 days of
that  notice to the secretary of the Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare Services Ministry in charge
of the subject.
11.1 An inquiry should be held by that Secretary or a board consisting of two persons appointed
by him.
11.2 The two persons in the board mentioned in subsection 1 should be persons holding
posts equal to the post of Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner or higher than the post of
Provincial Probation Commissioner.
11.3 The decision  of the inquiry should be as follows :—
(a) inform the Manager of the children home the reasons for the rejection of the registration of
the children home.
(b) inform the  Provincial Probation Commissioner to take necessary steps to register that
children home.
Registration.
Agreement to
function
according to the
Standards.
Issue of
Certificates.
Announcement
cancelling the
Registration.
An appeal can be
submitted to the
Secretary.
Decisions
regarding
appeals.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
20A
(c) Grant a grace period of not more than a year to fulfill the requirements mentioned in Section
03 and if fulfilled accordingly to approve the registration thereafter.
12. A party not satisfied regarding a decision give under Section 11 can forward a request
to the Minister in charge of Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare subject (hereinafter mentioned
as the “Minister”) within a period of  30 days of that decision.
13. When a request mentioned in Section 12 is received, the Minister should hold an inquiry
by a board of two Government Officers holding equal posts to that of the Provincial Probation
Secretary or retired Government Officers who held similar posts regarding that appeal and necessary
action under Sections 11(a), (b) or (c) should be taken by the Minister, The decision of the Minister in
charge of the Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare subject is the final decision.
14. The only person who has the capability to deal with the Provincial Probation and Childcare
Department regarding all the affairs of the Children home is the Manager of that Children Home.
15. Instructions and orders given by the Provincial Probation Commissioner or another officer
authorized by him regarding the welfare of the resident children of a children home or its management
should be followed or implemented by the Manager, the Board and the staff of that children home as and
when the occasions arises.
16.1 The Manager of a certain children home can be ordered to supply some particulars or reports
by a written notice by the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner or another officer authorized
by him within a period mentioned in that notice.
16.2 The Manager should refrain himself from supplying incorrect of false particulars when
supplying the particulars ordered under sub-section 1 above.
17. for not functioning according to Sections 15 and 16 above the Uva Provincial Probation
Commissioner should take action to send notice under Registered Post to the Manager or the Board
of a certain Children home as and when the occasions arise and the Manager or the Board should be
ordered to take the necessary steps in the final days mentioned in that notice.
18. If the Manager or the Board of a certain children home fails to take action before the final
date in that notice, mentioned in Section 17 a written notice explaining the reasons for not following
the instructions should be sent to the Secretary of the Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare Ministry
with a copy to the Provincial Probation Commissioner.
When complaints are received regarding the activities of Manager of children homes registered
under  this Statute the Probation Commissioner has the power to hold inquiries regarding them and the
Managers of the children homes are bound to implement the decision taken.
19.1  After that explanation is received an inquiry should be held either by the Secretary of the
Uva Provincial probation and Childcare Ministry or a board consisting of two persons held equal
or higher posts  to that of the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner, and that Secretary should
take one of the following actions :—
(a) Order the Manager or the Board to take steps under Section  15 or 16 within a definite period
mentioned in the order,
A request can be
forwarded to the
Minister in
charge of Uva
Provincial
Probation and
Childcare subject.
The decision of
the Minister of
Uva Province.
Manager should
act on behalf of
the Board.
Instructions must
be followed and
orders should be
implemented.
Information and
Reports should
be supplied.
Final Notice.
Explantions of
the Manager for
not functioning
accordingly.
An inquiry
should be held by
the Secretary.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
(b) amend the instructions or orders given under section 15 and order the Manager  or the
Board to function accordingly.
(c) to inform that following the instructions or activities the orders given by the Uva Provincial
Probation  Commissioner or a certain authorized officer is not required or supplying the
particulars or reports under section 16 is not required.
19.2  Before a lapse of 30 days from the date of request under section 16 is received, the Secretary
of the Uva Provincial Ministry should send his decision to the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner
with a photostat copy to the Manager under Registered Post.
20. The decision of the Secretary of the Uva Provincial Ministry of Probation and Childcare
Services is final and not implementing it is as offence.
21. In an instance where the Manager or the Board of a certain children home breaches the
regulations under sections 15, 16 and 19, the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner should Appoint a
Government Officer in the Executive Grade or a retired Governor officer who was in the Executive Grade or
a well known Social Worker accepted by the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner as the Competent
Authority to maintain that Children Home.
22.  In an instance where a Competent Authority is appointed under section 21 the  Uva Provincial
Probation Commissioner should inform about that to the Manager in writing and the Manager should take
action to hand  over all the movable and fixed properties belonging to the children home to the Competent
Authority. After the Competent Authority is appointed the Manager or a member of the controlling Board
should not enter a land or a building if the children home and should not interfere with any of the functions
of the Institute.
23.1 Within a period of twelve months from the date of appointing a Competent Authority the Uva
Provincial Probation Commissioner should summon all the members of the voluntary organization maintaining
that children home in writing to meet to appoint a new Manager and a  Board. The Uva Provincial Probation
Commissioner should take section to appoint a new Manager and a Board by their secret Ballot.
23.2 All the movable and fixed properties of that children home should be handed over to the New
Manager appointed under section 23.1 by the Competent Authority within 7 days of his appointment.
23.3 From the date the movable and fixed properties are handed over by the Competent Authority
under subsection 2 the new Manager and the Board have the legal power to function in their posts and
should perform their duties properly from that date.
24. A  Manager or any member of a Board who has completed his service should not be re-appointed
as a Manager or a Board member in any of another children home until a period of seven years lapses from
the date of completion of his service.
25. (a) When the Provincial Probation Commissioner is informed by a notice that a meeting of a
voluntary organization maintaining a children home, a resolution has been passed by a majority vote to the
effect that the children home can not be maintained any further,
(b) if it is not possible to appoint a Competent Authority under section 21,
(c) if the Management Board has not performed the duties as mentioned in section 7,
(d) if the Manager or the Board has not performed the duties according to the instructions and
orders given by the Provincial Probation Commissioner  or by any other officer  authorized by him under
section 19 and 23
That the
decisions of the
Secretary is final.
Nullifying the
Board of a
children home
and appointing a
Competent
Authority.
Handling over
assests and not
to inerfere.
Appointment of
a new Manager
and a Board.
Disqualifications.
Cancellation of a
registration of a
children home.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
22A
the Provincial Probation Commissioner should take action to cancel the registration of the
relevant children home after holding an inquiry.
26. When the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner decides to cancel the registration of a children
home under Section 25 he should inform  the Manager of the relevant children home about the decision by
Registered Post within 30 days from the date he arrived at that decision.
27.1 If the Manager of a children home is not agreeing with the decision given under Section 26 he
should submit an appeal under Registered Post to the Secretary of the Provincial and Childcare Services
Ministry with a copy to Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner within seven days from the date of that
decision.
27.2 After an appeal is submitted under sub-section 1 the Manager and the Board have the authority
to maintain the children home until a decision is taken according  to Section 28 by the Secretary of the Uva
Provincial Ministry.
28.1 When an appeal  under section  27 is received by the Secretary of the Uva Provincial Probation
and Childcare Services Ministry, he should follows one of the following proceedures after an inquiry  held
by him or by a committee consisting of two persons holding equal or higher posts to that of the Provincial
probation and Childcare Services Commissioner :–
(a) confirm the cancellations of the registration;
(b) postpone the cancellation of the registration for a maximum of 04 months until the decision
of the Uva provincial Probation and Childcare Services Commissioner is carried out;
(c) abolish the decision of the Provincial Probation and Childcare Services Commissioner
regarding the cancellation of the registration.
28.2 The decision that will be taken by the Secretary of the Uva Provincial probation and
Childcare Services Ministry should be informed to the Manager with a copy to the Uva Provincial
Probation and Childcare Services Commissioner within three months from the date of receiving the appeal.
29.1 When the registration is cancelled under sections 25 and 28 the Uva Provincial Probation
and Childcare Services Commissioner or a  person authorized by him should take action to remove the
children in that children home to another children home or hand over to parents or guardians or to transfer
them to another Children home ordered.
29.2 In transferring a child to another children home the Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare
Services Commissioner or the authorized officer by being vigilant of the child’s religion should take
every possible effort to transfer that child to a home of his religion having facilities for that child to involve
in his religious affairs.
30. The Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner or an officer authorized by him should take
action to hand over the  fixed and movable properties provided by the Government and the Uva
Provincial Council to a Children home of which the registration is cancelled to another children
home decided by the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner.
31. to accomplish the purposes of this Statute a Department of Uva Provincial Probation and
Childcare Services should be established.
Notice of
cancelling the
registration.
Submitting an
appeal.
Decision of the
Secretary.
Procedure that
should be taken
when a
registration is
cancelled.
Handing over of
properties of a
registration
cancelled
children home.
Establishment of
a Provincial
Probation and
Childcare
Services
Department

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
32.1 An Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare Services Commission should be appointed
for the administration and supervision of the Uva Provincial Department of probation and Childcare
Services, Commission. He should be an officer in Grade I Sri Lanka Administrative Service and must be
appointed the Governor of Uva Province.
32.2 An Uva Provincial Commissioner’s office should be established to assist the Uva Probation
and Childcare Services Commissioner with a field staff including senior Probation officers and
Childcare Officers and an adequate staff to perform the duties assigned. Divisional Officers managed
by Probation Officers should be   established at Judicial Division levels considering the necessity
and such Probation Offices should perform their duties under the direct supervision of the Uva
Provincial Probation and Childcare Services Commissioner.
32.3  For the welfare of the orphaned, abandoned and destitute children, institutes such as —
(1)  V oluntary children homes ;
(2) Certified Schools ;
(3) Detention Houses
should be established and officers needed to administer them should be appointed, Officers of
these institutes should work under the supervisions of Uva Probation and Childcare Services
Commissioner.
33. A Provincial home admitting children (hereinafter mentioned as “admitting Home”) with
an adequate staff to provide protection for orphaned, abandoned and destitute children under the
age of 05 years should be established. That home will come under the administration of the Provincial
Probation and Childcare Services Department.
33.1 There should  be an agreement regarding the number of children that can be admitted and  if the
number staying is less than that children directed by the Department or the Judiciary   to be admitted.
34.1 A person having information about an orphaned, abandoned and destitute child less than 05
years of age, he should inform about that to the officer in charge of the Police Station or to any Police
Officer, or an officer in the Department of Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare Services or the Grama
Niladhari of the area in which that person is residing.
34.2 The officer receiving information regarding an orphaned or abandoned or destitute child
of less than 05 years of age should take steps to admit that child to a Government Hospital.
35.1  If a child admitted in to a hospital under section 34.2 does not need medical treatments the
Medical Officer in charge of that hospital or any other Medical Officer authorized by him should admit that
child into a home admitting children in that area on the approval of the Uva Provincial Probation and
Childcare Services Commissioner.
35.2  When a Judicial order is required in respect of such a child the Medical officer in charge of the
hospital or another officer authorized by him should take action to inform the relevant Police Station.
36. Before removing a child who has become orphaned, abandoned and destitute soon after the birth
from the hospital the Medical Officer in charge of the hospital or another officer authorized by  him should
take the first step required to register his/her birth.
Provincial
Probation
Commissioner
and the staff.
Provincial
Children Homes
admitting
children.
Supply of
particulars
regarding
orphaned
abandoned
destitute
children.
Should be
admitted to a
home.
Birth to be
registered.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
24A
37.1 A detailed report of every child admitted to an admitting home should be forwarded to the
Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner by the Probation Officer in charge of the Division or any
other officer authorized by the Provincial Probation Commissioner within 30 days from the date that
child is admitted to the home.
Approval of the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner should by obtained when admitting children
other than the children directed by the Judiciary or the Department.
37.2 Settlement affairs of the child admitted to the admitting home should be done by the Uva
Provincial Probation Commissioner in this respect he can obtain the assistance of the Settlement Committee
appointed under section 38,
38.1 The Settlement Committee should consist of the following members appointed exofficio :–
(a) The Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner should be the President of the Settlement
Committee.
(b) Provincial Headquarters probation Officer.
(c) Probation Officer in charge of the station.
(d) Matron in charge of the station.
(e) Assistant Matron.
38.2 When transferring a child in a voluntary children home an admitting home the Manager
of the home should act according to the orders of the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner.
38.3  In respect of children in a voluntary children home a Settlement Committee should be
functioned once in three months with the participation of the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner
or an officer authorized by him.
39. Any child in a children home or a Provincial home admitting children should not be subjected
to any improper influence such as raping or abduction, cruel treatments, humiliation excessive
employment in labour etc., by the Manager or any member of the staff of the home.
40.1 Any person —
(a) neglecting to supply a particular information or to submit a report on an order given
under this Statute.
(b) intentionally including false statements in an information or a report submitted ;
(c) breaching an order or a regulation given under the regulations of this Statute
will be an offender for an offence under this Statute.
40.2 If regulations to enact especial punishment for a person doing an offence under this Statue
are not provided, he is an offender for an offence, and when convicted by a brief court inquiry
before a Magistrate will be subjected to all fine not less than Rs. 5,000 or an imprisonment not exceeding
six months or both the fine and the imprisonment. Such penalized institutes will be included in the
black list.
Investigation
Report to be
forwarded.
Admitting other
than the children
directed by the
judiciary and the
Department.
Settlement
Committee.
A child should
not be raped or
abducted.
Offencees

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
40.3 When an offence under this Statute is done by a group of persons –
(a) if that group of persons is a Corporation all the Directors and Officers in that Corporation,
(b) if that group of persons is a business institutes all the shareholders of that business
institute,
(c) if that group of persons is the Management Board of a children home, all the members of
that staff,
41.1  The Provincial Council of Uva should allocate adequate funds annually to the Uva Provincial
Department of Probation and Childcare Services to activate the regulations in this Statute.
41.2 Funds provided by the Government and other sectors to the Uva Provincial Probation
and Childcare Services Department can be utilized to perform the activities of this Statute.
41.3  Records must be maintained regarding all the funds received from local Organizations or
individuals and all the funds received from foreign organizations and abroad to an admitting home and
such records should be submitted to the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner monthly. Uva Provincial
Probation Commissioner or an Officer authorized by him should be entitled to investigate such funds.
41.4 Income received by marketing the products created by the children in Institutes managed
by the Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare Department can be credited to this fund. This fund is
controlled under the Uva Provincial Probation Commissioner. Approval of the Secretary of the Ministry
in charge of the subject should be obtained to utilize the money in this fund. This money can be used
only for the welfare activities of the children in those  institute. This fund is subjected to the auditing
of the Government and the Annual Statement of Accounts should be forwarded to the Auditor General.
42.1 The Provincial Probation Commissioner should pay an amount calculated annually to the
Manager of the relevant home for the maintenance of every child receiving protection in a children home
registered under this Statute.
42.2 Annual Statement of accounts of a children home submitted by voluntary organizations
of a children home at a General Meeting should be prepared by an auditor or an Accountant  recognized
by the Government. This Statement of Accounts should be forwarded to the Uva Provincial
Probation  Commissioner on or before the lst of March every year by the Manager.
43.1  Orders can be formulated by the Minister in charge of the Uva Provincial Probation
and Childcare Services subject implement and authorize the regulations in this Statute and they
should be forwarded to the Provincial Cabinet for approval.
43.2 If any one of the orders submitted for approval is not approved it can be considered as rescinded
from the date of that decision, but, no damage should happen to any thing done earlier under that,
44. The Financial Year is the Calendar Year and the auditing affairs of this Department will be subjected
to the auditing of Auditor General Department and the internal Auditing Director of the Uva Provincial
Council and should be according to section 23 of Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
45. If unless another meaning is required regarding the verse in this Statue —
By the “Provincial Council” Uva Provincial Council is meant.
Allocations of
funds to
Department of
Probation and
Childcar
Services.
Maintining a
fund.
Payment of
Maintenance.
Financial Year
and auditing.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
26A
By the “Uva Province” the two Administrative Districts of Badulla and Moneragala is meant.
By the “Governor” the Uva Provincial Governor is meant.
By the “Minister” the Minister in charge of the Probations and Childcare subject of the Uva
Provincial Council is meant.
By the “Commissioner” the Commissioner of the Probation and Childcare Services Department
of the Uva Provincial  Council is meant.
“Abduction” has the same meaning given to it in the Penal code.
“Rape” has the same meaning given to it in the Panel Code.
“Abandoned” has the same meaning given to it in the Orphanage Act, (in chapter 142).
By “Settlement Committee” it is understood, handing over a child residing in a children home
or a Provincial Admitting home to his parents, guardians, a relative or any other suitable
person or socialising in some other way for the benefit of the child.
If there is a discrepancy among the Sinhalase, Tamil and English definition or verses of this Statute,
the Sinhala Definition and version should be in force.
Discrepancy.
Annexure I
STIPULATION  OF  GENERAL  STANDARDS  TO  UPLIFT  THE  SERVICE  CONDITIONS
 OF  VOLUNTARY  CHILDREN  HOMES
V olunteer Organizations are performing a noble service by providing safety, protection and welfare of the orphaned,
abandoned and destitute children admitted to V olunteer Children Homes and by maintaining these homes under various
difficulties. By deciding the minimum  service standards that should be available in children homes maintained by these
volunteer organizations along with the aids from the Government General standards recommended and approved by a
committee appointed by the Uva Probation and Childcare Department for the necessity to uplift these service conditions
further are mentioned below.
As the Uva Provincial Probation and Childcare Department is concerned with the maintenance of these general
standards required to provide a maximum service to every child when approving maintenance aids and appropriate aids, it is
kindly informed to take necessary steps to provide the relevant service standards.
01. Standards Regarding Buildings and Surroundings
1.1 There should be 36 sq.ft. sleeping space per child in the building.
1.2 Additional space to have meals, to study, to rest and to meet visitors should be there in the building.
1.3 Doors and windows should be 1/7th of the square area to receive sunlight and ventilation.
1.4 There should be separate space for the employees.
1.5 Buildings should be maintained cleanly and nicely and the compound to be kept useful to the home and
attractive.
1.6 Supply of water should be adequate enough to meet the needs of the home.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
1.7 If water is supplied from a well it should be protected.
1.8 Bating facilities should be there for the children and staff with sufficient safety and protection.
1.9 There should be a lavatory for every 10 residents.
1.10 Lavatories and drains should be cleaned frequently applying germicides.
1.11 Illuminations during the night should be provided to meet the needs of the entire home.
1.12 Safety lamps must be adopted if kerosine lamps are used.
02. Standards Regarding Meals
2.1 Meals supplied to the residents should be balanced and nutritious and with specified quantities.
2.2 Meals lists should be prepared and kept according to different age groups.
2.3 A Register showing varieties and quantities of meals given day to day must be kept.
2.4 Rice, coconuts, sugar, flour and species required at least for a week and vegetables sufficient for 03 days
should be kept stored.
03. Standards regarding Cloths of Children
3.1 Every Child should be provided with a blanket and a towel.
3.2 A child should have at least 02 sets of cloths to be worn in the home, 02 sets of uniforms for a child attending
school, 01 set clothes of a good quality to be worn for ceremonies etc.,
3.3 Shoes and socks should be supplied according to the accepted requirements of the school attended by the
children.
04. Standards Regarding Equipment
(a) Furniture :
4.1 A separate cupboard for every child above 06 years of age to keep personal items such as clothes,
books etc., should be there.
4.2 Almirahs generally to keep clothes and other equipment of children under 06 years should be there.
4.3 If there are beds for every child to sleep at least a mat or a piece of canvas and a pillow must be available.
Efforts must be taken as early as possible to provide beds for children on aids of donators.
4.4 There should be tables and chairs sufficient enough for the number of residents in the dining and or
reading halls.
(b) Chinaware :
4.5 Every child above the age 01 year should have a plate and a  cup that can be cleaned easily.
4.6 Infants should have feeding bottles and necessary teats.
4.7 There should be common items and culinary utensils sufficient enough for all the residents and the
staff.
(c) Educational facilities :
4.8 Children should be provided with books and utensils as ordered by the schools attended by them.
4.9 Library facilities should be made available for the children to read during their leisure times.
4.10 Regulations should be there to provide daily newspapers and children newspapers issued weekly.
4.11 Item for entertainment affairs should be provided sufficiently.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
28A
(d) Supplying the following items is very important to improve children’s born fondnesses and to make use of
their leisure times properly :—
4.12 A  radio.
4.13 Musical items.
4.14 At least one toy for every child under the age 03 years.
4.15 Items required according to the children’s desires to spend their leisure times.
(f) Sports facilities and equipment :
4.16 There should be a playground for outdoor games large enough for the number of residents in every
home,
4.17 If there is no playground owned by the home action should be taken to make use of a common or school
playground situated externally to the home,
4.18 Action should be taken to obtain outdoor sports equipment sufficient enough to the home,
4.19 Action should be taken to obtain indoor sports equipment sufficient enough to the home.
05. Service Standards
Providing safety and protection of the children residing in homes the following services of the children home should
be performed for their welfare :
(a) Management Committee :
5.1 The Management Committee should meet at least once a month and should meet once in three months
in the home itself,
5.2 Systematic plans should be prepared regarding obtaining funds required to maintain the children home,
management and settling affairs of children.
5.3 Required arrangements should be made to maintain the home according to the rules and instructions of
the Department and to supply the reports continuously that should be supplied from time to time.
5.4 Manager and the staff should be of good character.
5.5 Arrangements should be made to forward a statement of Accounts certified by a recognized Auditor to
the Department by the Manager before the expenditure of appropriate and maintenance aids given by
the Department as specified and the payment of annual Government aids. If there is a difficulty in
finding a registered auditor for  this purpose, it can be done by an officer named in the Civil Life .
5.6 The following registers should be kept in the home:—
* Admission Register
* Daily attendance Register
* Accounts Books
* Log Book (for Department’s Officers)
* Visitors’ Book
* Files for residents (separate files for each resident)
* Items list Book
* Meals note Book.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
5.7 entering every utensil and equipment given by the Department in the Items list book and subjecting
them for Annual Verification should be done.
(b) Staff standards :
Everybody in the staff of the children home should participate in the Training Course organized by the
Department. Before the end of 1987 Guardian mother/father, Assistant Guardian mother/father in every home
should be persons who  have received this training.
5.8 There should be a trained Guardian mother/father in every children home in addition to the Department
training the Guardian mother/father should have the following qualifications :
(i) Passed the G .C.E. (Ordinary Level) (not applicable to persons at present).
(ii) Above the age of 25 years (having a training regarding children affairs).
(iii) Having a good behaviour.
5.9 Every Guardian mother/father should reside in the children home itself .
5.10 For every 05 children under 02 years there should be one house mother.
5.11 For 10 children in the age 2-6 years there should be one house mother.
5.12 For every 25 children above the age of 06 years there should be a guardian mother/father and an
Assistant house mother/house master.
Qualifications for a House mother/House master :
(i) Passed Grade 8(not applicable to present persons) ;
(ii) Above 21 years of age (if the adult children in the home is employed for this purpose should have
completed 18 years of age) ;
(iii) Be of good behaviour ;
In addition employees required for cooking meals and cleaning the surroundings should be
enrolled. If employing a permanent person for watcher duties and garden work he should be of
good character and above the age of 45 years.
(c) Standards of additional Service facilities :
5.13 The children home should be established in a place not far from health and Medical centres.
5.14 Necessary arrangement should be made with a Health Services Department or a private doctor to visit
the children home from time to time to examine the children regarding their health and medical requirements
and also to take the children to those centres for treatments.
5.15 Programmes must be implemented for immunisation necessary for children.
5.16 Children without birth certificates should be shown to the closest Government doctor through Probation
Officers in charge of the Division and probable age certificates obtained.
5.17 When admitting to a children  home a medical report should be obtained for each and every child and
every child should be subjected to an annual medical examination and that must be noted in that child’s
personal file. Arrangements should also be made to note the child’s height weight, identification marks
etc., in that file.
5.18 Actions should be taken to send children suffering from mal-nutrition according to medical reports to
nutrition centers after receiving instruction of the Assistant Commissioner.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
30A
(d) Standards of educational services :
5.19 Action should be taken to send every child above 06 years of age to a recognized school.
5.20 Arrangements should be made to send all the children less than 06 years and more than 03 years of age
to close pre-school classes or to conduct such classes for them.
5.21 Sufficient time should be allocated daily in the children home time table for studying and playing.
5.22 Arrangements should be made to provide a certain kind of vocational training for children.
5.23 A programme should be arranged to provide a vocational training specially for children above the age
of 14 years who could not achive successfully results from school education or having a fondness or
skill for special. trends Instructions can be obtained from the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the
Division to send the suitable children to children homes with special vocational training centres
inaugurated  with the aids of the Department. A Register of names of those centers is with annexure 2
together with this.
(e) Special Services relevant to the Progress of Children :
5.24 As from the time of admitting a personal file should, be maintained so that notes are kept for each child.
In this, once a month regarding weak children once in 06 months regarding other children remarks
should be entered. The following should be included in the files of each child.
5.25 Birth Certificate  and School Certificate. If the Birth Certificate is not available action should be taken to
obtain probable age certificates with the Probation Officer in charge of the home.
5.26 Child’s height, weight and other medical information (once in 06 months regarding children under 02
years of age).
5.27 Remarks regarding child’s physical, mental and spiritual behaviour should be noted.
5.28 Remarks regarding meetings with parents guardians should be noted.
5.29 Remarks regarding Establishment Committee special decision should be kept.
5.30 When a problem arises regarding the behaviour on immunisation days, it should be discussed with the
Probation Officers and if required, a method to provide special treatments should be arranged and
details regarding it should be noted.
06. Establishment
The management Committee of the children home should take every effort possible to provide safety and
protection necessary for every child admitted to the home and to establish the child as early as possible enabling him
to inter-mix with the society again. While shortening the period of made in residing in the home is beneficial for the child
himself in one hand, it will make it easy to take action to provide opportunities for the number of children increasing daily
that should be admitted afresh on the other hand. Establishment is planning to provide benefits for the future of children in
at least one of the ways mentioned below after apprising regarding the resident children from time to time.
6.1 To hand over every child back to existing or traceable parents guardians if there are no special difficulties.
6.2 Even if the parents guardians are existing and in instances where they can not deal with the child to keep
with some other suitable persons.
6.3 Orphaned, abandoned or destitute children or suitable children who have received written consent of the
parents to be given for legal adoption.
6.4  Handling over to feeder parents so as to provide short-term or long-term welfare of a child.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
6.5 Select foster parents  who can provide aids for the welfare of the child.
6.6 Provide employment.
6.7 Provide some kind of vocational training enabling to do a job.
6.8 Give in marriage.
6.9 Before transferring children residing  in a home with the approval of the Department to another children
home or sending away from the home by whatever method prior approval of the Probation and Childcare
Commissioner should be obtained. The meeting of the Establishment Committee consisting of the following
persons appointed to perform all the duties should be held once in six months and action regarding each
child should be taken according to the decisions take therein.
(i) Probation and Childcare Services Assistant Commissioner of the area/Probation officer in charge of
the home.
(ii) Manager of the Management Board/a representative.
(iii) Caretaker of the home/house master.
Approval should be obtained after informing the Probation and Childcare Services Commissioner regarding
the children that should be kept in the home for more than 03 years of the children residing in the home
decided at the Establishment meeting 03 months before the lapse of that 03 years, if not, maintenance aids
will not be paid for them.
07. General matters
7.1 A suitable atmosphere and a programme should be set to worship the religion of each child in all the home.
7.2 It is proper to arrange  programme to take all the children in big or small groups for educational /pleasure trips
once in several months.  (It is very much proper to arrange this programme according to the instructions given
in the course followed at the Social Services Colleg) Under this method the children can be taken to view
places with educational or cultural values around the children home or far distant.)
7.3 It is better to maintain by scouts/girl guides teams in every home.
7.4 Programme should be arranged to improve connections with parents guardians of children.
7.5 The Minister in charge of Probation and Childcare affairs has the constitutional power to appoint an advisory
Committee to inspect children home occasionally and give proper instructions. for this, names of two or  more
outside persons having a knowledge regarding children welfare and showing an interest in children home
affairs should be forwarded to   me  through the Assistant Commissioner of the Divisional and approval
obtained.  They should be provided with facilities to check the affairs in the home and submit instructions.
7.6 All the money and the item received as local or foreign aids to the children home be properly noted in the
Accounts books.
7.7 My prior approval should be obtained regarding all the transactions and connections expected to be done by
the V oluntary children homes with foreign institutes and such dealings maintained at present should be
reported to me.
7.8 Children in all the Children homes should be separated in to groups to improve the feelings regarding their
responsibilities and  obligations and to practice in collective affairs.
7.9 The Department is compelled to take strong actions when children homes are maintained unfavourably to
children without a satisfactory management. When such an unsatisfactory situation remains, and if action is
not taken to improve the situation in accordance with the notifications done by the Department to uplift the

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'03
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.06.2010
32A
situation back to normal, the Department will be compelled to adopt a legal procedure under
the Orphanage Ordinance to close down those children homes    and transfer the children to
other children homes.
Uva Probation and Childcare Commissioner.
Annexure - 02
Name of Vocational Training Centre Address
S. O. S. Children Village P .O. Box.01,
Kumarawatta, Moneragala.
06-337/3
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.