

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1361
1361
¡â¤ 1 ,473 _ 2006  ï¾åÉæ´Ú 24 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.11.24
No. 1,473 – FRIDAY,  NOVEMBER 24,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1364
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1366
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st December, 2006 should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 17th November, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
B 3 - B 079408
N.B.– Quarterly Statement of Books, July-September, 2000 has been published in Part V of this  Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1362
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1363
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1364
Posts – Vacant
My No.: 76/1/15/special.
PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN CLASS I OF SRI
LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE TO SPECIAL
GRADE ESTABLISHED IN TERMS OF SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE  MINUTE
APPLICATIONS are hereby called for promotion of officers to the
posts approved in special grade indicated in Section 2 Para. 3 of the
Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute dated 28.10.2005 which
has been published in Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 dated 14 November 2005
and effective from 01.01.2005.
As per the provisions of the Service Minute, promotions to
special grade up to 31.12.2010 will be made under Section 17(C).
02. Qualifications.– Officers who have been absorbed to Class I
of Sri Lanka Administrative Service as at 01.01.2005, and obtained
following qualifications are eligible to apply for the promotion.
(I) (a) Should have obtained qualifications under Section
14(1)d or 19(1)b of the Service Minute.
(b) Should have earned on the due dates all the increments
during the preceding 5 years prior to becoming eligible
for promotion and have not been subject to any
disciplinary punishment during the same period.
(c) Should have earned ratings in the Annual Performance
Appraisal Report to the effect that the works and
conduct of such officers are satisfactory.
80% of the vacancies in special grade will be filled by promoting
such officers.
Note.– Officers who have obtained qualifications prescribed in
Section 14(1)(d) of this Service Minute and appointed to a post of
special grade before 14.11.2005 will be considered for such promotion
even though they have not completed a period of 5 years Grade I.
(II) (a) Should have completed a service period of 10 years in
Class I.
(b) Should have obtained qualifications under Section
14(1)(b) and 19(1)(b) of the Service Minute.
(c) Should have earned on the due date all the increments
during the period of 5 years prior to his/her becoming
eligible for promotions and have not been subject to
any disciplinary punishment during the same period.
(d) Should have earned ratings in the Annual Performance
Appraisal Report to the effect that the work and
conduct of the officer are satisfactory.
20% of the vacancies in special grade will be filled by promoting
such officers.
Note.– Officers who have appointed to a post in special grade
before 14.11.2005 but have not satisfied qualifications under Sections
14(1)(d) 19(1)(b) of the Service Minute will be considered for the
vacancies filling within the interim period.
03. Interview.– For the purpose an interview hold consisting of
three members appointed by the Public Service Commission shall
interview such number of officers not exceeding their the number of
vacancies to be filled.
04. Marking Schemes.–Total number of marks allocated is 100.
Marks will be given in the following manner :
(a) Seniority - (50 Marks)
(b) Merit - (40 Marks)
(c) At the interview - (10 Marks)
(a) Seniority - (50 Marks) :
At a rate of 2 marks for each year, marks will be given for the total
period of service in Sri Lanka Administrative Service. 1 Mark will be
allocated for a period more than 6 months. However, no marks will
be given for a period less than 6 months. Further, no marks will be
given for the period no pay leave.
(b) Merit - (40 Marks) :
(i) Post Graduate Degree/Post Graduate Diploma/other
Degrees from a recognized University in Addition to the Degree
through which the officer has qualified to enter Sri Lanka
Administrative Service/other professional qualifications.
(25 Marks)
Phd 25 Marks
Post Graduates 20 Marks
Post Graduates Diploma 15 Marks
(one year or more)
Other Degrees/Professional
Qualifications 15 Marks
(Maximum marks allocates will be 25 officer should have satisfied
respective qualifications before 01.01.2005. Relevant certificates
should be forwarded at the interview. However marks will not be
allocated for the Post Graduate Degree through which the officer
becomes eligible to apply for promotion to special grade).
(ii) 02 Marks will be given for each certificate obtained by the
officer during his/ her service in Sri Lanka Administrative Service
following a course not less than 2 weeks from a recognized institutions
in the fields of Public Administration, Management, Public Policies,
Economics, Social Development or Information Technology any other
subject related to the service. (15 Marks).
(Certificates  should be produced).
(c) Interview - (10 Marks)  :

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1365
(5) Officers in Class I who are eligible for the promotions should
forward their applications prepared and perfected in accordance
with the specimen attached herewith through the Heads of
Department, Secretary of the respective Ministry to reach the
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs before
22.12.2006.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
D. D
ISSANAY AKE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administraion and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administraion and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
06th November, 2006.
Promotions of officers in Class I of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service to Special Grade
Part A
01. (i) Name in Full :————.
(ii)Date of birth :————.
02. (i) Present post and date of appointment to the post :————.
(Officer who hold a post on special Grade should attach the
letter of appointment to the post)
(ii)Department/Ministry :————.
(iii)Official address :————.
03. under which sections has the officer become eligible for
promotion ? :
(indicate √ in the relevant cage)
 04. Particulars of the qualifications satisfied by the officer :———.
05. Date on which such qualifications have been satisfied :———.
06. Particulars of salary increments earned during the period  of 5
   years immediately preceding to ————.
Year Service Station/Post Salary increments have/
have not been earned
I hereby  certify that the particulars are true and correct.
————,
Signature of the Officer.
Date :————.
Part B
My No. :————.
Secretary,
Ministry of ....................................................................
Promotion of Mr./Mrs./Miss ..........................................
to Special Grade
Particulars mentioned above by the officer are true and correct.
01. (i) The officer has not obtained no pay leave during the past
5 years.
(ii)Leave out of Sri Lanka/study leave/leave for foreign
employment/no pay leave have not been obtained from
200 ................................ to ................................... .
02. (i) No disciplinary action has been taken against the officer.
(ii) Disciplinary action has been initiated against the after on
........................./disciplinary action is in process.
03. Work/conduct and attendance of Mr./Mrs./Miss.
..................................... are satisfactory. His/her leadership skills,
performance and the capability to bear responsibility and leadership
in relations to next promotion were taken in to consideration. I
hereby recommend to promote him/her to Special Grade of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service.
Performance Appraisal Reports for the past 5 years are attached
herewith.
————,
Signature and Designation of the Head
of the Department/Institution.
Date :————.
Note.– Delete words in applicable.
Part C
My No :————.
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
(1) I hereby agree/do not agree with the recommendations made
by the Head of Department/Institution on the work and conduct of
Mr./Mrs./Miss. .................................... of Class 1 of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service.
 (2) Duties/Conduct/Special skills and performance of the officer
have been evaluated.
I hereby recommend/do not recommend to promote Mr./Mrs./
Miss ................................... to the Special Grade of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service.
................................................
Secretary,
Ministry of ...............................
................................................
Date :————.
Note.– Indicate reasons in brief if the officer is not recommended
for the promotions.
Part A - By the office
Part B - By the Head of Department/Institutions or
Secretary of the respective ministry as the case
may be
Part C -
11-582
2  (i)
2 (ii)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1366
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
ADMISSION  OF  APPRENTICES  TO  THE  SRI  LANKA
–GERMAN  RAILW AY  TECHNICAL TRAINING
CENTRE – 2006
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens (male/female)
possessing the following minimum qualifications for admission of
Apprentices to the Sri Lanka-German Railway Technical Training
Centre, Ratmalana for 2006.
02. Minimum Qualifications :
(a) Age.– Should be between 16-25 years as at 31.05.2006.
(b) Educational Qualifications.– Passing 06 subjects at the
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
examination in not more than two sittings including
Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Science. (It is
required to possess educational qualifications completely
before 31.12.2005 and passing of 05 subjects in first
sitting).
03. Training Courses.– The apprentices selected for the training
will be given an opportunity to follow the following professions
subject to the period specified. The course will be conducted only in
the Sinhala Medium. 18 persons each for the following courses will
be selected :
(i) Diesel Engine Mechanic 2 1/2 years
(ii) Welder 03 years
(iii)Electrician (Power) 3 1/2 years
(iv) Machine Setter (general) 3 1/2 years
(v) Motor Mechanic 4 years
04. Applications.– Applicants should indicate their particulars
correctly in the application forms prepared in white blank sheet of
297 m. m. x210 (A.4) according to the specimen attached herewith.
Incomplete applications will be rejected.
05. Selection for the Course :
(i) Selection will be made by written and practical tests
and only the candidates with required minimum
qualifications and, who have paid examination fees
mentioned in para. 07 will be called for the written test.
(ii)The written test will be based on Mathematics, basic
technical knowledge and general knowledge. The
applicants who have scored the highest marks at the
written test will be called for the practical test.
(iii)The candidates who have scored the highest aggregate
marks at the written and practical tests will be selected
for the courses.
06. Medium of Examination : Medium of examination will be
Sinhala, Tamil and English.
07. Examination Fees.– Non-refundable fee of  Rs. 250 will be
charged for the examination. This amount can be paid by Money
Order written in favour of Genereal Manager of Railways indicating
paying-in-office as Maradana Post Office or to any Railway Station
or to the Railway Chief Accountant’s Office, Colombo 10, and the
receipt or the Money Order thus obtained should be attached to the
application. Applications received without Money Order or receipt
will be rejected. It should be noted that examination fee will not be
refunded either for not being able to appear for the exam or for any
othre reason.
08. Examination Centres.– A written examination will be con-
ducted only in a Colombo Centre for those candidates who satisfy
all the requirements stipulated.
09. Signing of Agreement.– All applicants selected for training in
the Institution should sign an agreement with the National Appren-
tice and Technical Training Institute that they follow the training
successfully during the period specified.
10. The apprentices will be paid a monthly allowance during the
period of training by the Apprentice and Technical Training
Authority.
11. The Department is not bound to give employment to the
apprentices after training.
12. The application forms prepared in accordance with the speci-
men form given below should be sent to the Director, Sri Lanka
German Railway Technical Training Centre, Ratmalana by regis-
tered post. “S. L. G. RTTC/2006” should be indicated on the top left
hand corner of the envelope.
13. Closing Date of Application.– Applications will be enter-
tained up to 22.12.2006. The applications received later will be
rejected.
K. A. P
EMASIRI ,
General Manager Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railways,
Colombo 10,
28th September, 2006.
AMENDMENT
V ACANCIES – PARLIAMENT  OF  SRI  LANKA
THE following amendment is made to the sub-section 14.1 and 14.3
of the para. 14 of the Gazette notification publihsed in the Gazette
No. 1470 of 03.11.2006 calling for application for the vacant posts
on the staff of the Secretary General of Parliament.
“14.1 Salary scale.– Rs. 108,480 – 9 x 1320 / 10 x1560 / 3 x
2220–142,620–per annum (On this scale, the minimum monthly
remuneration with allowances will be approximately Rs. 18,000). A
Furniture Polisher, on successful completion of 10 years satisfactoy
service, will be eligible for promotion to the post of Senior Furniture
Polisher and placed on the salary scale of Rs. 113,760 – 5 x 1320 / 10
x1560 /6x2220–149,280 per annum. (On this scale, the minimum
monthly remuneration with allowances will be approximately
Rs. 19,800).
14.3 Educational Qualifications.– G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in
06 (six) subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala or Tamil with
three (03) credit passes in not more than two sittings.”
Note.– The closing date of applications for the all posts men-
tioned in the above Gazette notification is extended upto 15th De-
cember, 2006.
Secretary General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura,
Kotte,
15th November, 2006.
11– 77

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1367
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION OF APPRENTICES TO THE SRI LANKA –
GERMAN RAILWAY TECHNICAL
TRAINING CENTRE – 2006
For Office use only.
1. Name in full (with Surname) in Sinhala and English : ———.
2. Address (in Sinhala) : ———.
           (in English) : ———.
3. District : ————.
4. Date of Birth : ————.
5. Sex : Male/Female : ————.
6. Educational Qualifications : (G. C. E.  O/L)
First sitting
Year: ————. Index No : ————.
Subject Grade
1. ………………………… …………………
2. ………………………… ………………….
3. ………………………… …………………
4. ………………………… …………………
5. ………………………… …………………
6. ………………………… …………………
7. ………………………… …………………
8. ………………………… …………………
9. ………………………… …………………
10. ………………………… …………………
Second sitting
Year: ————. Index No : ————.
Subject Grade
1. ………………………… …………………
2. ………………………… ………………….
3. ………………………… …………………
4. ………………………… …………………
5. ………………………… …………………
6. ………………………… …………………
7. ………………………… …………………
8. ………………………… …………………
9. ………………………… …………………
10. ………………………… …………………
7. Language Medium in which the applicant prefers to sit : ————.
8. Indicate two professions in order of preference by the appli-
cant according to the notification :
1.  ————.
2.  ————.
9. Money Order/Receipt No. .............obtained on payment of
Rs. 250 to the Post Office/Railway Station...................is attached
hereto.
10. I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct.
I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to
be false, I am liable to disqualification before selection and removed
from training, if detected after selection.
.....................,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :
11-302
DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR
Competitive Examination for Recruitment of
Labour Officers - 2006
A Competitive Examination will be held in the month of March 2007
in Sinhala, Tamil and English media at Colombo by the Commissioner
General of Examinations for recruitment of Labour officers for the
Department of Labour.
02. Salary Scales attached to the Post :
It will be the salary scale relevant to Class II and Class I of the
Labour Officers’ Service as from 01.01.2006 in terms of Public
Administration Circular 06/2006.
MN 5-2006 - 15,785 - 10 x 290 - 15 x325 - 11x 400 -27,960 (Monthly)
(Should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination within 3 years
from the date of Appointment and 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
within 7 years from the date of Appointment or before the 8th Step
of the Salary Scale.)
Note.–Recruitment will be to Class II. Officers who have passed
the First and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations and completed
the language proficiency (Sinhala/Tamil) oral test, confirmed in the
service, completed 10 years’ satisfactory service and  earned
increments during the 5 years preceding the date of promotion and
have not been subjected to disciplinary punishments will be promoted
to class I.
03. Educational and other Qualifications.– Candidates who appear
for the Examination should :
(i) be of excellent character and physically sound,
(ii) be citizents of Sri Lanka,
(iii)Qualifications for open Competitive Examination :
(a) A Degree from a recognized University ; or
(b) Professional Qualificationss to be engaged in Legal
Profession.
(iv)Qualifications for the Limited Competitives
Examination :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1368
(a) Confirmed in Government Service or in the Local
Government Service or in the Clerical and Allied
Grade or Government Management Assistant
Service who has completed 10 years’ Service on or
prior to the closing date of Applications ; or
(b) Confirmed in Government Service or in the Local
Goverment Service or in the Clerical or Allied Grade
or Government Management Assistant Service who
has completed 5 years’ service on or prior to the
closing date and possesses a Degree from a
recognized University.
Note :
Parallel Grades :
(a) An Officer in any of the following Combined Services
controlled by the Director of Combined Services :
Officers of the Government Management Assistant Service,
Translator.
(Post such as Clerk, Stenographer, Typist, Book Keeper,
Shroff, Store Keeper have been amalgamated to the Post of
Government Management Assistant under the Government
Management Assistant Service Regulation Code.)
(b) An Officer under any of the following Clerical Services :
Postal, Railway, Parliament, School, Government Printing
Press, Previous Public Works Department, Health.
(c) An Officer who has fulfilled the following above basic
qualifications in the Local Government Service :
Officers of the Government Management Assistant Service,
Clerk, Stenographer, Typist, Shroff, Book Keeper, Translator.
Final decision of the Parallel Grades in reserved by the
Commissioner General of Labour.
(v) Applicant should not be less than 18 years and not
more than 45 years of age on the closing date of
Applications. (The maximum age limit does not apply
to those already in Government Service or in the Local
Government Service).
04. Scheme of Recruitment :
(a) 50% of vacancies will be filled with external candidates
possessing the requisite qualifications mentioned  in sub
paragraph III of paragraph 3 above and on the results of a
Written Examination conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and an Interview held by the
Commissioner General of Labour for the purpose of
examining the qualifications, Certificates and physical
fitnesss of the Candidates.
(b) 50% of the vacancies will be filled from those who have
become eligible under sub paragraph IV of paragraph 3 above
and a Written Test will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. On the merits of total marks
obtained at the Written Test, persons for not more than five
times the number of vacancies stipulated herein would be
called for an interview to test their service markes and their
practical knowledge.
(I) Marks for Service (Service Marks)
At the rate of 2 marks for each Year of Service in the
Government Service or in Local Government Service or
Clerical or an Allied Grade or Government Management
Assistant Service after the lapse of the minimum period
of service requisite in the Scheme of Recruitment subject
to a maximum of 50 marks.
(II) Test conducted to test the practical knowledge on labour
Laws.
Viva voce held to test the practical knowledge on Labour
Laws. Maximum marks will be 50.
The selection for recruitment from the Limited
Competitive Examination will be effected on the merit
of marks obtained at the Written Test and as setout at
(I) and (II).
(c) The Merit List (Register) will be prepared by selecting the
Candidates who have gained 40 or more marks for each
Question Paper at both Open and Limited Competitive
Examinations and adding such marks.
05. Service Conditions :
(a) This Post is permanent and pensionable under the
Contributory Pension Fund. An Officer recruited to this
Post as a new recruit on 01.01.2003 or thereafter should
pay a contribution to the Contributory Pension Fund
according to the percentage specified by the Government
from time to time.
If an Officer who has been in a pensionable post prior to
01.01.2003 is recruited, such person is further entitiled to a
pension under the Pensions Minute and he/she should
contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’/Widowers’ and
Orphans’ Pension Fund.
The appointment is subject to 3 year probationary period.
If an Officer holding a permanent Post in Government Service
is selected, he or she will be appointed to this Post subject
to a period of one Year on Acting Basis.
(b) The selected candidates should be bound to serve in which
ever area of the Island.
(c) The selected candidates should pass the following Efficiency
Bar I Examination during the period of Probation/Acting
Period.
(i) Test on Labour Laws I and II,
(ii) Test on the Establishment Code (V olumes I and II),
Financial Regulations and Office Procedure,
(iii) Test on spoken Sinhala/Tamil
(This Examination will be held by the Commissioner
General of Examinations).

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1369
(d) As regards to other conditions of Service, you may refer the
general conditions applicable to appointment to Posts in
the Public Service published at the beginning of Paragraph II
(a) in Part I of the Gazette.
06. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Open Competitive Examination :
(i) Aptitude Question paper (100 marks - 1 hour)
(This is a Question paper designed to test the knowledge
in Language and Numerals, Logical capacity and ability
in decision making. 50 Objective  Type questions will
be included in it.)
(ii)Essay and Precis  Question Paper (100 marks)
(This will be a Question paper of 3 hours designed to
test the knowledge of the candidates on current news
and important local and foreign political economic and
social changes and knowledge on Labour Organization
and the Labour Charter.)
(b) Limited Competitive Examination :
(i) Aptitude Question paper (100 marks)
(Question paper of the type mentioned under 1 of
(a) above)
(ii)Question paper on Labour Laws (100 marks)
(This is a 3 hour question paper designed to test the
knowledge on Labour Laws based on the following
Acts.)
1. The Wages Boards Ordinance No. 27 of 1941
2. The Shops and Office Act (Regularization of
Employment and Remuneration) No.19 of 1954
3. The Industrial Disputes Act No.43 of 1950
4. The Employees’ Provident Fund Act, No.15 of
1958
5. The Termination of Employment (Special
Provisions) Act, No.45 of 1971
6. The Payment of Gratuities Act, No.12 of 1983
07. Forwarding of Applications :
(i) The Application should be in accordance with the
Specimen Form at the end of this notice and it must be
prepared on a single sheet of paper of  8 1/2" x 12"
(A4) using both sides and perfected by the candidate
himself/herself. The cages from 1 to 5 should be in the
first page of the Application Form.
(ii)The Application Form should be perfected in the
Language which the Candidate anticipates to appear
for the Examination.
(iii)Application should be sent under registered cover to
the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla to reach him before 12 noon 29.12.2006.
Applications  received after that date will  be rejected.
This Department is not responsible for Applications
lost or delayed in post.
(iv) "Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Labour
Officers 2006" should be written on the left-hand
corner of the envelope where the Application is in
enclosed by the candidates.
(v) The fee for the Examinations is Rs.300. This amount
should be paid to the District Secretariat or Divisional
Secretariat to be credited to the vote No. 4000-20-03-
20-13 before the closing date of the  Applications.
The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat or
Divisional Secretariat should be affixed to the relevant
portion of the Application. Preservation of a
photocopy of the receipt obtained after the payment
will be beneficial.
(vi) On no account, will Examination fees be refunded
unless the Examination is cancelled. Further the
Examination fees paid for this Examination cannot be
transferred to any other Examination.
(vii) Candidates already in Public Service applying in what
ever stream setout in ‘a’ and ‘b’ of (iii) and (iv) of Para
(3) above, should send their Applications through their
respective Heads of Deparements as appearing at the
end of the Application Form should be compulsorily
perfected.
(viii)Applicants should read this Gazette Notification
compulosorily and carefully perfect the Application
Forms. Please note that incomplete Application Forms
will have to be rejected. The Examination fees will
neither be refunded nor transferred for another
Examination for any  reason whatsover. You may note
that a request to appear for the Examination in a language
other than the language applied for will not be
considered.
(ix)Applications should not be sent to any personal
address. If any applicant does not receive his/her
Admission Card at least seven (7) days prior to the
Examination, he/she should inform the  Commissioner
General of Examinations, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla with the following particulars
without delay (Address for Telegrams - Examinations,
Battaramulla.) :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii)Full Name of the Candidate ;
(iii)Address ;
(iv)The date on which application was posted,
Registration No. and the name of the Post Office
from which it was posted ;
(v) No. and Date of the Receipt on which payment
was made.
(x) The Signature of the candidate should be attested by
one of the following persons. A justice of Peace, A
Commissioner of Oaths, An Attorney at Law, A
Notary Public, A Head of Government or Assisted
School, A Commissioned Officer in the three Forces,
A Gazetted Officer of the Police Force, A Staff Officer,
A Chief incumbent of a Buddhist Temple, any other
Regligious Dignitary or any other Religious Leader
holding a responsible postition.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1370
(xi)Travelling expenses or any other expenses borne by
the Candidate for the appearance for the Examinations
will not be paid to the Candidates.
08. Admission to Examination :
(i) Admission Cards and Time Tables will be issued  by
the Commissioner General of Examinations to all
Candidates who have forwarded their Applications
and eligible to sit the Examination should handover
the Admission Cards to the Supervisor of the
Examination Centre. Any candidate who fails to
produce this Admission Card will not be allowed to
appear for the Examination.
(ii)Candidates should sit the Examination at the
Examination Centre assigned to him/her. No candidate
will be allowed to sit the Examination at a Centre
other than the Centre assigned to him/her.
(iii)The admission to the Examination does not necessarily
mean a recognition of a Candidate’s eligibility. A Code
of rules to be adhered to by the Candidates is given in
the Gazette Notification. All Candidates are bound to
comply with these rules.
09. Identification of Candidates.– Every Candidate is required to
prove his/her identity for each subject to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. Production of one of the following documents would be
sufficient for the purpose :
(a) A valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Personss.
(b) A  Passport valid at the time of this Examination.
The right of releasing results of Candidates who do not produce
due Identity Cards will be reserved by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
Note.– Any Candidate who fails or delays to produce one of the
above documents will not be admitted to sit the Examination.
Candidates are therefore advised to keep relevant documents ready
on time.
10. Documents of Eligibility :
(i) Candidate should give all the particulars required by this
Notification in their Applications. The Applications if
any which do not conform to the requirements of this
Notification will be rejected.
(ii)Candidates who are called for the Interview finally, should
produce their documents of Eligibility for the examination
of documents at the viva voce. Or else they  should send
me by registered post without delay when such documents
are called by me.
(iii)The following documents will be necessary :
(a) Two Testimonials from two responsible persons
(Those who are already in Public Service need not
furnish Testimonials.)
(b) A Certified Copy of the Birth Registration entry of
the Candidate.
N.B .—
(i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for use in
a school or Educational purpose or a certified
extract taken from the Birth Registration entry
will not be accepted.
(ii)Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be
accepted for Birth Certificates.
(c) A Certificate of registration as a Sri Lankan Citizen
or a Certificate of recognition to Citizenship by
descent by the Government. (as proper)
(d) Original Educational Certificates.
(e) A Service Certificate by those who are already in
Public Service. (in addition to the Certificate stated
in the Application)
(f) Identity Card.
(iv) None of the above Certificates should be sent along with
your Application but all those Certificates should be
produced at the Interview to which you are summoned.
(v) All Candidates are advised to keep all documents ready at
the time when Applications are sent in. If any Candidate
fails to produce these documents when summoned for the
interview or whenever I call for, his/her candidature will be
cancelled.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.
If in accordance with regulation of this Examination a candidate is
found ineligible, his candidature will be cancelled at anytime prior or
during or after the Examination.
If at any time during the period of his/her service, it is proved that
he/she had wilfully furnished false information or he/she had been
ineligible to sit this Examination he/she would be able to be dismissed
from service forthwith.
Note.— If there is any contradiction in this Gazette Notification
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English media, please note that Sinhala
Notification will be considered as accurate.
By order of the Public Service Commission.
P
ADMINI  RATNAYAKE ,
Acting Secretary,
Ministry of Labour Relations,
and Foreign Employment.
06th November, 2006.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1371
Specimen Application Form
(For Office use only)
OPEN*/LIMITED* COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT OF LABOUR OFFICERS IN THE LABOUR
DEPARTMENT – 2006
(*Please delete the unnecessary word)
01. 1.1 Name of Applicant with Initials :———.
(English Capital Letters) E. g. SILV A, A. B.
1.2 Full Name :———.
(English Capital Letters)
1.3 Full Name :———.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :———.
(English Capital Letters)
(The Admission Card will be posted to this Address)
2.2 Permanent Address:———.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Office Address :———.
(English Capital Letters)
03. 3.1 National Identity Card No :
04. 4.1 Medium of Language you wish to appear for the
Examination :
Sinhala-2 / Tamil-3 / English-4
(Please write the relevant No. in the cage)
(This will not be permitted to be changed)
4.2 Sex: Male - 0
Female  - 1
(Please write the relevant No. in the cage)
4.3 Community : Sinhala - 1
Sri Lanka Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
Malay - 5
Other - 6
(Please write the relevant No. in the cage)
4.4 Please state whether you apper for the Limited Competitive
Examination/Open Competitive Examination/Both.
Limited Competitive Examination - 0
Open Competitive Examination - 1
Both - 2
(Please write the relevant No. in the cage)
(This will not be permitted to be changed)
05. 5.1 Date of Birth : Year      Month          Date
5.2 Age on 29.12.2006 : Years          Months         Days
5.3 Total period of service eligible to apply  for the Examination
on 29.12.2006 :
(Only for the applicants for Limited Competitive Examination)
Years           Months                  Days
5.4 You are a Citizen of Sri Lanka by :
Descent -1
Registration -2
(Please write the relevant No. in the cage)
06. If you are presently employed in Public Service state the Post
:———.
07. Under which Section/Sections out of Sections (a) and (b) of
paragraph (4) of the Gazette Notification, do you wish to appear
for the Examination? :———.
08. Educational Qualifications  (state if only applicable to you):
:———.
1. Degree held by you :———.
2. Year in which Degree Examination was passed :———.
3. Year in which you became elgible to practice as a lawyer
    :———.
09. Details of Service (only to those applicable) :
Institute Designation Period
From To
10. If you are a Public Servant, details of punishments other than
warnings, if any :———.
11. (a) District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat to which
Examination fees had been paid :———.
(b) No. and date of the Receipt for payment of Examination
Fees :———.
(Please paste the Receipt of Examination fee to the
Application firmly on one end only.)
(To paste the Receipt)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1372
12. Applicants Declaration :———.
(a) I certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
Application is true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if it is found before selection that any
particulars furnished here is false and incorrect, I am liable
to be made ineligible for the Post,  and I am also aware that
I will be dismissed from service at any time if such
information is found to be false and incorrect after I am
appointed to this Post.
(c) I agree to abide by all the conditions applicable to this
Examination.
(d) I am qualified to sit the Open/Limited Competitive
Examination/Both Open and Limited Competitive
Examinations in terms of Paragraph 3 of the Gazette
Notification.
—————.
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:—————.
13 ( a) Attestation of the Applicant’s Signature :———.
I certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss................... is personally known to
me and  that he/she placed his/her signature before me on ............ .
————.
Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Date :————.
Name of the Attesting Officer :———.
Post :———.
Address :———.
(b) Certificate of the Head of Department :———.
My No:-...........................
I Certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ............. who has forwarded this
Application has been an Officer holding the Post of ......... in this
Department from .............  and that the above particulars furnished
by him/her are correct. I wish to state further that if he/she is selected
to this Post, he/she can be released/cannot be released from the
Service.
————.
Head of Department
Date :————.
11-603
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  PRESCRIBED  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  SEGMENT  ''B"  OF  CLASS  II  AND
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINNATION  PRESCRIBEED
FOR  OFFICERS  IN  SEGMENT  "A"  OF  CLASS  II  OF
THE  SRI  LANKA  TECHNOLOGICAL
 SERVICE – YEAR  2003
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved service
minute of SLTS, the above mentioned examinations will be held  by
the Commissioner General of Examinations, in Colombo, on March
2007.
02. (i) These examinations will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates
will be bound by the rules and regulations prescribed
by him in respect of the examinations.
(ii)The candidates will be subjected to the punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
if such rules are violated by them. Rules prescribed for
candidates are printed separately at the beginning of
this Gazette notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required to
prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and
officers in the public service should forward their applications through
the respective head of department and officers in the provincial
public service should forward their applications through the Secretary
of PSC in the provincial council where they serve, by registered post
to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations, Organizations
and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pellawatta, Battaramulla on or before 22nd December, 2006. The
top left corner of the envelop containing the application should bear
clearly the title of the examination. Applications received  after the
closing date of application will be rejected.
04. Identity cards.— Candidates should prove their identity at
the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
subject they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents
will be accepted.
(a) an identity card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
(b) a valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish
any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion
of Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Application.—
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size.
No. 01 to 06 should appear on the first page. Applications
could be typed but they should be completed correctly
and legibly by the candidate in his/her own hand writing
and in the language medium in which the candidate sit this
examination.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1373
Candidates who appear for this examination for the first
time are not required to pay any examination fees, but
they are required to affix stamps to the value of Rs 90/-
for the whole examination or Rs.50/- for a subject for
subsequent sittings and duly cancel them with the signature
and date. This fee will not be refunded under any
circumstances. Also the transfer of such fee for any other
examination will not be allowed.
(ii)Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium
selected by them in their applications. if applications are
received in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, this
examination will be held in those three languages. However,
candidates should answer the question papers in one and
the same language selected by them.
(iii) An officer is not allowed to sit for both Efficiency Bar
Examinations at one and the same occasion. However,
officer in class II segment 'B' who have completed a
service period of five years and passed the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination
in class II segment 'A'.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received.  A candidate sitting himself
for the examination must produce his admission card with bear the
candidate's signature which duly attested to the supervisor of the
examination center. A candidates who fails to produce his admision
card will not be permitted to sit the examination. Any candidate who
do not receive the admission card at least 07 days prior to the
examination should inform the Commissioner General of Examination
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Dept. of
Examinations, Pellawatta, Battaramulla furnishing the following
information. (Telegrams – Examinations, Colombo).
(i) Name of the Examination
(ii)Full name of the candidate
(iii)Address
(iv)Date of posting the application, registered number and
post office
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para (06) above will not
be considered.
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves for
different subjects separately at different examinations. However, in
order to secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be obtained
in respect of each question paper.
09. Issue of the results of the examination.— In accordance with
the particulars indicated in para 3 above, the results of the candidates
belonging  to provincial public service will be issued to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public service Commission and the result
of the candidates belonging to Public Service will be issued to the
secretary of the respective ministry.
10. Scheme of Examinations.—
(1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "B" will consist of 02 question papers.
1. Office Administration & Establishments Code (Two
hours) (100 marks)
2. Finacial Regulations (Two hours) (100 marks)
Syllabus for the first question paper:
Office Administration & Establishments Code (Subject No. 01)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Establishments Code.
Chapter II Recruitment Procedure and Appointment.
Chapter III Transfers.
Chapter IV Grant of Monthly Pay, Temporary Status,
Permanent status and Pensionability.
Chapter V Release, Reversion, and Termination of
Employment.
Chapter VIII Overetime, Holidays, Holiday Pay &
Allowances.
Chapter XII Leave.
Chapter XIII Railway Warrants.
Chapter XIV Travel on duty within the Island.
Chapter XIX Government Quarters.
Chapter XLVII General conduct and discipline.
Syllabus for the second question paper:
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Financial
Regulations.
(1) Chapter I.
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
The Consolidated Fund, Annual Estimates, Variations of
Estimates.
(FRR. 1 to 68)
(2) Chapter III.
Financial Management and Accountability.
Chief Accounting  Officers, Accounting Officers, Revenue
Officers,
Authorization, Approval, Certification, Delegation of
Authority.
(FRR. 124 to 147)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1374
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "A" will consist of  02  question papers.
3. Office Administration & Establishments Code. (Two
Hours) (100 marks)
4. Finacial Regulations (Two Hours) (100 marks)
Syllabus for the first question paper :
Office Administration & Establishments Code (Subject No. 03)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of Establish-
ments Code.
Chapter XV Travel abroad for  study, training or on duty.
Chapter XVI Holiday Travel.
Chapter XXIII Special concessions and conditions regarding
Officers suffering from certain types of
illnesses.
Chapter XXIV Salary Loans and Advances.
Chapter XXV Concessions to members of Trade Unions.
Chapter XXVII Channels of communication.
Chapter XXVIII Administrative procedures.
Chapter XXX Right of Government over its officers.
Chapter XXXIII Legal advice and legal actions.
Chapter XLVII General conduct and discipline.
Chapter XLVIII Rules of disciplinary procedure.
Circulars issued on performance appraisal.
Syllabus for the second question paper :
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04)
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of financial
Regulations.
(1) Chapter VI
Custody of Public Money etc., Imprestrs and Bank Ac-
counts.
Security of Public Money, Boards of Survey, Bank Drafts,
Bank  Accounts. (FRR. 315 to 396)
(2) Chapter XIII
Supplies, Works and Services.
Supplies/Purchasing, Stock Verification, Procurement
procedures, Contracts, Tender procedure. (FRR. 708 to
775)
11. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public
Administration & Home Affairs will  be the final in respect of any
matter not provided for  in this notification.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
& Home Affairs.
08th November, 2006.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs
Independence Square
Colombo 07.
Specimen Form of Application
( For office use only )
Department of Examination, Sri Lanka
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION PRESCRIBED FOR
OFFICERS IN SEGMENT "B" OF CLASS II AND
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION PRESCRIBED FOR
OFFICERS IN SEGMENT "A" OF CLASS II OF THE  SRI
LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE – YEAR 2003
01. (a) Name with initials :————.
(in English block capital letters)
(b) Name in full :————.
(in English block capital letters)
(c) Name with initials :————.
(in Sinhala/Tamil )
(d) Official address:(Admissions will be posted to this
address):————.
(in English)
:————.
(in Sinhala)
(e) Medium in which you sit for the examination
(Sinhala  –  2 / Tamil – 3 / English  –  4 ) (Indicate the
relevant number in  the cage)
(f) Sex :
(Male – 0 / Female – 1 ) (Indicate the relevant number in
the cage)
(g) Efficiency Bar Examination which you apply
(II 'B'- 0 / II 'A' – 1 )
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.24
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.11.2006
1375
02. (i) Whether you belong to the provincial public service or
public service
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Public Service- 1 /Western-2/Southern-3 /Central-4 /North
Western-5/Sabaragamuwa-6 /Uva-7 /North Central-8 /
North East-9)
03. Subjects offered -
(a) Subject offered for the class II Segment B Efficiency  Bar
Examination
        Subject Subject No.
———————
———————
(b) Subject offered for the class II Segment A Efficiency  Bar
Examination
       Subject Subject No.
———————
———————
04. (i) Date of Birth : Year    Month           Day
(ii) Age as at 22.12.2006 : Years            Months   Days
05. (i) Designation  :—————.
(ii)Class and Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service
:—————.
(shouold be included as I, II A / B)
06. Department which you belong to  :—————.
Affix stamps to the value of Rs. 50/- for one subject and
Rs.90/- for the whole examination and cancel them by placing the
signature of the candidate and the date.
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I
am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above.
—————,
Signature of the candidate.
Date : —————.
Note.–Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of
the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to sign on his
behalf.
Attestation of candidate's signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................. is
presently employed in my office and is well known to me and he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on .........................
2006.
—————.
Signature of the attestor.
Certification of the head of the Dpartment:
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1-6 above
are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for the examination and
also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above.
—————,
Signature and designation of
Head of Department.
Date:—————.
11-652
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.