

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
w;s úfYI
wxl 2399$58 - 2024 iema;eïn¾ ui 01 jeks bßod - 2024'09'01
No. 2399/58 - suNdAy ,  september  01,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Provincial Councils Notifications
1A -  pG 6852 - 05 (09/2024)
PROCEDURAL RULES ON APPOINTMENT, PROMOTION AND TRANSFER OF PUBLIC 
OFFICERS AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL 
THERETO
these  Procedural Rules on appointment, promotion and transfer of the North Western Provincial Council public officers 
and to provide for matters connected therewith and incidental thereto have been enacted by mr. Nasir Ahmed the honorable 
Governor of the North Western provincial Council by virtue of the powers vested under section 32 of the provincial Council 
Act, No. 42 of 1987. 
the interpretation or decisions on any matter not covered these procedural rules will be made by the honorable 
Governor of the North Western province.
These Procedural Rules shall be effective from 01st september, 2024. 
by order of the honorable Governor of North Western province,
         I.M.I. Ilangakoon, 
 secretary to the hon. Governor of North Western province.
29th dated August, 2024.  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
2A
 NORTH WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  PUBLIC  SERVICE   
PROCEDURAL  RULES
Effective Date: Thirteeth May 2024
CoNteNt 
Chapter                                              Topic                                           Page Number
 I       establishment  3-4
 II       exercise of delegated powers   4-5
 III       Appointment  5-7 
 IV       Approval of service minutes and schemes of recruitment  7-8
 
  V       Persons not qualified for recruitment to the public service  8 
 VI       t erms and Conditions governing Appointments          8-10 
 VII      procedure to be followed in recruitment and Appointment    10-16
 VIII Period of Probation and Confirmation of Appointment     16-18
 IX Appointment to Act in a post or Attend to the duties of a post  18-20
 X Efficiency Bar  20-21
 XI seniority  21-23
 XII Releasing an officer for the appointment of other post in the Provincial Council Public Service  23-26
 XIII      reemployment or reappointment in the provincial council public service of a person retired
    from the public service or provincial council public service  26-27
 XIV      t ermination of Appointment and resignation from public service  27-29
 XV       Vacation of post.  29-30
 XVI      retirement  30-31
 XVII    procedure governing promotions  31-32
 XVIII    t ransfer          32-39
 XIX   procedure on Appeals against decisions on transfers other than the annual transfers and
  promotions   39-40  
 XX     Preparation of Registers and Reports on officers of Provincial Council Public Service    40-41
 XXI     Channels of Communication       41
 XXII     Definitions  41-44
 XXIII register of Appendices  45-92 
 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Chapter I
Establishment 
Post of Hon. Gevernor 
 1.  The office of Governor has been established in terms of Article 154 b (1) of Chapter XVII (b) of the Constitution of the 
democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka.
Provincial Council Public Service Commission 
 2.  the North Western provincial Council public service Commission has been established under the provisions of section 
33 of provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 to be read with Articles 154 (a) to 154 (c) of Chapter XVII (a) of the 
Constitution.
Powers
 3.  The Governor has the powers to appoint, transfer, dismiss and control the discipline of officials in the North Western 
provincial Council public service in terms with the provisions of section 32 (1) of the provincial Council Act, No. 42 
of 1987, subject to the provisions of other laws.
 4. the Governor of the North West province has the power to amend, reduce or revoke any appointment and any order  
of transfer or dismissal or any other order made with regard to  the  disciplinary proceedings made by the North West 
provincial public service Commission in terms of section 33 (8) of the provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987, and 
any appointment, an order of transfer or dismissal made by an authorized authority or any other order made in relation 
to disciplinary matters  by an authority authorized in terms of section 4 of the provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, 
No. 28 of 1990 which has been enacted to amend that Act.  
 5. If any difficulty arises in the interpretation or application of these Procedural Rules, or if there is a contradiction between 
the true meaning of these procedural rules and the purpose for which they are intended to applied, or if there are matters 
not covered by these Procedural Rules, the provincial Governor has the power to make final decision. 
 6. According to section 32 (3) of the provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987, the Governor has the power to make, amend 
and cancel rules, regulations and procedures regarding the public service of the North Western provincial Council.
Delegation of powers 
 7.  t he powers assigned to the North Western provincial hon. Governor in terms of section 32 (1) of the provincial Council 
Act, No. 42 of 1987 can be delegated from time to time to the North West provincial Council public service Commission 
which is established in accordance with the third section above as per sections 32 (2), 32 (3) of the said Act. the 
powers so delegated may be delegated by the public service Commission of the North-West provincial Council to the 
Chief Secretary of the North-Western Province or to any other official subject to the conditions as required.  
 8. In case the Governor inquires about the appointments, promotions, transfers, disciplinary controls and dismissals 
made by the delegated authorities in accordance with the provisions of the provincial Council Act, the views of the 
Commission shall be informed. 
Accountability to the Hon. Governor 
 9.  In case the powers delegated by the Governor of the North Western province to the public service Commission of the 
North Western provincial Council in accordance with the provisions of the provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 
are implemented, the relevant authorities are responsible to the Governor of the province for the decisions taken by 
the North West provincial Council service Commission and the decisions taken by an authority authorized by the 
provincial Council (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
4A
Independence
 10. In terms of the provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987, every person who, otherwise than in the course of such person’s 
lawful duty,  directly or indirectly by himself or by or with any other person, in any manner whatsoever influences or 
attempts to influence or interferes with any decision of the North Western Provincial Public Service Commission or any 
person to whom the provincial public service Commission has delegated any power which has been delegated by the 
Hon. Governor, or to so influence any member of the Commission shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction 
be liable to a fine not exceeding One Hundred Thousand Rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, 
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Chapter II
Exercise of Delegated Powers
 11. If any problem arises regarding the power assigned by the hon. Governor to the public service Commission of the 
North Western provincial Council or the exercise of that power, it should be resolved by consulting the hon.Governor. 
If an officer authorized by the North West Provincial Council Public Service Commission has any problem regarding 
the power assigned to him or the exercise of that power, it shall be inquired from the North West provincial Council 
public service Commission and subsequently from the hon. Governor if necessary.
 12. A committee or an officer on whom powers have been delegated in terms of Section 7 of Chapter I shall be responsible 
and answerable to the hon. Governor regarding the exercise of such delegated powers.
 13.  Where the powers are delegated with the provincial Council public service Commission, such powers shall be exercised 
by provincial Council public service Commission itself, and it shall not be deemed the powers are delegated to its 
members separately. 
 14.  the authority with delegated power shall exercise such powers by him/herself and shall not re-delegate such powers to 
any other person or a committee.
 15.  All acts committed and decisions made by any person or a committee by violating the provisions of section 14 shall be 
null and void. the authority with delegated power who authorizes or facilitates such action and decision as well as the 
person who exercises such power shall be personally liable for such harm or loss caused due to such act or decision.
 16.  the authority with delegated power shall exercise powers within the scope and limits of such delegation. Any act 
committed or decision made in excess of the scope and limits of such delegation shall be null and void. such authority 
with delegated power shall be personally liable for any harm or loss caused by such acts or decisions.
 17.  Where the authority with delegated power makes any decision or commits any act on the instructions or orders or under 
the influence of anyone except in accordance with the procedural rules, guidelines, procedures and regulations issued 
by the Hon.Governor, making of such decisions or the committing such acts shall be deemed as an offence under the 
First Schedule of the disciplinary procedure concerning public officers. Such decisions or acts shall be null and void. 
the authority with the delegated power shall be personally liable for any harm or loss caused by such decisions or 
acts. however, this section shall not preclude any action taken in pursuance of a decision made by the hon. Governor 
or by a competent Court of Law constituted under the Constitution.
 18.  the authority with delegated power shall exercise such powers in accordance with the procedural rules, guidelines, 
procedures and regulations impartially, equitably, and in good faith and in a transparent manner. 
 19.  the authority with delegated power shall act diligently on matters entrusted to him and any delay due to reasons beyond 
his control shall be reported to the hon. Governor forthwith.

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 20. the authority with delegated power shall seek assistance and advice from the hon. Governor/provincial Council public 
service Commission when necessary.
 21.  decisions on any matter or interpretation not covered by these procedural rules shall be made by the hon. Governor.
Chapter III 
Appointments 
 22.  The Hon.Governor shall have the power to appoint officers to the North Western Provincial Public Service in terms of 
section 32(1) of provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987. In accordance with section 4 of Chapter I, the hon. Governor 
may, at his discretion, delegate that power to the provincial Council public service Commission. the appointments 
made by the hon. Governor are as follows:
 I.  Appointment to a post on substitution, contract, casual, temporary, attending to duties, acting and permanent 
basis;
 II.  Changing the existing service status of an officer in the provincial public service;
 III.  Appointment of an officer holding a post in the provincial public service to another post in the provincial 
public service;
 IV.  Appointment of a provincial public officer from a lower grade position to a higher grade position in the provincial 
public service;
 V.  Reappointment or reinstatement of an officer who has retired or duly resigned from the provincial public service;
 VI.  Appointment of officers in the island wide service to the posts in the provincial council public service.
 23.  An officer with delegated power shall be able to make other appointments than the officers in the island wide services 
to the posts in the provincial council made directly by the hon. Governor referred to in items V and VI of section 22 
above.  
 24.  however, the reinstatement by the hon. Governor or the Commission of a person who had been dismissed from the 
provincial public service or who had vacated his/her post, pursuant to consideration of an appeal by such person shall 
not be deemed as a contradiction to the terms stated in Chapter V herein.
 25. An appointment as an internal arrangement to cover up the duties of a post in order to carry on with and continue to 
update the administration work of an institution may be made by the respective head of the Institution or the head of 
the department.
Basic facts applicable to appointments
 26.  An appointment on casual basis shall be made only if financial allocations are provided for in the annual estimates or 
approved estimate solely for the intended task. he shall be paid only an allowance on a daily basis or in the manner 
agreed upon by the parties. the employment of such person shall cease upon the completion of such task. A casual 
employee shall have no claim for permanency or to be appointed to any other post in the provincial public service by 
virtue of the casual appointment. However, only a person who has fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in the relevant 
scheme of recruitment shall be considered for an appointment on casual basis.
 27.  If, as a matter of urgency, a substitute appointment has to be made to cover up the duties of a post in the absence of its 
permanent holder, only a person who possesses applicable qualifications in terms of the approved Scheme of Recruitment 
shall be considered for such appointment and the substitute appointment shall be made solely on the basis of payment 
of daily wages. the substitute appointment shall cease when the permanent holder of the substantive post reports for 
duty.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
6A
 28.  An appointment on permanent or contract or temporary or acting or attending to duties basis, shall be made only for 
a post falling within the approved cadre of the relevant institution and having an approved service minute or scheme 
of recruitment, as the case may be, with funds provided by the General treasury.
 29.  except for an appointment made to act or attend to or cover up duties, it should be advertised in conformity with the 
approved Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment, as the case may be, when each vacancy is filled. 
 30.  before an appointment is made, the Appointing Authority should satisfy himself/herself that
 I.  the particular post exists in the cadre approved by the relevant authority;
 II.  Financial provision has been made for that;
 III.  A vacancy actually exists in the cadre;
 IV .  the appointment is in accordance with the approved service minute or scheme of recruitment, as the case 
may be;
 V .  he/she has the authority to make the appointment.
 31.  A post shall not be deemed to be vacant, if the holder of the post is on paid leave or on no pay leave or has been 
temporarily released for other duties or is under interdiction or is on leave preparatory to retirement. however, where 
the Appointing Authority deems it necessary due to the exigencies of the service, he may appoint a person to attend to 
duties or to act in such post.
 32.  every appointment to the provincial public service other than on substitution or casual basis shall only be made in 
accordance with the approved service minute or the scheme of recruitment, as the case may be. 
 33.  The date specified in the letter of appointment or the date on which the officer formally assumes duties of the post, 
whichever is later, shall be the effective date of an appointment. However, in the event of an officer finds himself 
unable to assume duties in his new post following his appointment due to the reason he has been temporarily released 
for any other duties or owing to travel abroad for official purposes or any matter beyond of his control, the Appointing 
Authority shall then decide on the effective date of such appointment.
  however, where a recruitment is made by calling applications from the internal applicants under limited and merit 
streams, the effective date of such an appointment shall be determined by the Commission subject to the provisions in 
rule Nos. 36 and 37 of the procedural rules.
 34.  No person shall be appointed to a post in the provincial public service or for the provincial public service using any 
designation of the provincial public service on honorary or voluntary capacity unless provisions are made therefor by 
any written law.
Antedating of Appointment
 35.  No Appointing Authority other than the hon. Governor should antedate an appointment.      
 36.  An application to antedate any appointment should be made to the hon.Governor by the relevant Appointing Authority 
or Administrative Authority setting out the reasons therefor. Following conditions should have been completed for 
such an antedating and the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority should ensure that it to be so.
 I.  t here has been a substantive vacancy in the post from the date to which an appointment to such post is proposed 
to be antedated
 II.  As at the date to which the appointment is proposed to be antedated, the relevant appointee has acquired all the 
qualifications required for such appointment in terms of the Scheme of Recruitment which was in force as 
at such date.

<!-- page 7 -->

7A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 III.  the appointment proposed to be antedated should have been made in accordance with the approved service 
minute or relevant scheme of recruitment.
 37.  Antedating of an appointment will not be allowed on any ground whatsoever under any of the following circumstances.
 I.  If such antedating results in the officer concerned gaining seniority over an officer appointed before him/her or 
with him/her to the same grade or post or any alteration in the seniority determined at the selection for such 
appointment;
 II.  If an appointment is proposed to be antedated to a date falling before the date of holding a competitive 
examination or an interview awarding marks where such appointment is made based, either solely or partly, 
on the performance of the officer at that competitive examination or interview;
 III.  If an appointment is proposed to be antedated to a date falling before the date on which the relevant qualifications 
have been examined in accordance with the notice calling for applications for appointment;
 IV . If recruitment is made by calling for applications from external applicants under open stream.
Chapter IV 
Approval of Service Minutes and Schemes of Recruitment
 38.  For each approved service in the provincial public service, there shall be a service minute and for each approved post 
falling outside those services, there shall be a scheme of recruitment. such service minute or scheme of recruitment 
shall contain qualifications for recruitment, methods of recruitment, salary scales, service conditions, and methods of 
promotion, professional ethics and all other relevant information.
 39.  draft service minutes and schemes of recruitment shall be prepared in accordance with the standard format. schemes 
of recruitment and service minutes shall be submitted to the provincial public service Commission by the head of 
the relevant department, secretary to the relevant provincial ministry, Chief secretary of the province and it shall be 
the submitted with the observations and recommendations by the Commission to the hon. Governor for approval.
 40.  d raft s ervice m inutes and s chemes of recruitment shall be fully compliance with the policies approved by the 
government.
 41. the service minutes approved by the hon. Governor shall be made public by publishing it in the government gazette 
and the scheme of recruitment approved by the hon. Governor shall be published as appropriate.
Amendment
 42.  Whenever, an approved scheme of recruitment or service minute is required to be amended, the head of the relevant 
department shall submit it along with a schedule of the proposed amendment, a draft of revised service minutes or 
recruitment procedure to the provincial public service Commission through the secretary to the relevant provincial 
ministry, Chief secretary of the province and it shall be submitted with the observations and recommendations by the 
Commission to the hon. Governor for approval. 
 43. the schedule referred to in 42 above shall be in three columns and include the following: -
 I.  the existing provisions of the service minute or the scheme of recruitment to be amended;
 II.  the reasons for the amendment; and
 III.  the proposed amendments.
  Furthermore, the draft of the amended service minute or the scheme of recruitment shall include the proposed 
amendments by underlining and highlighting the same.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
8A
 44.  the hon. Governor shall have the discretion to approve or approve with amendments/revisions or reject or revoke 
a scheme of recruitment or a service minute or the proposed amendment submitted to the hon. Governor in terms 
of section 42 above.  Also, the Governor has the authority to consult the relevant authorities or to direct the relevant 
authorities to compile a service minute or recruitment procedure or to amend an approved service minute or procedure 
for any service or a particular post in the provincial Council public service as directed by the hon. Governor.
Chapter V 
Persons not qualified for recruitment to the provincial council public service
 45.  The following persons are not qualified for recruitment to the provincial public service:
 I.   A person who is not a citizen of sri Lanka or a person who does not have citizens’ rights;
 II.   Any of the following persons who served in the public service or provincial public service or in a public 
corporation or a statutory institution
 (a) A person who has been compulsorily retired for general inefficiency;
 (b) A person who has been retired as a merciful alternative to dismissal; 
 (c)   A person who has been retired or dismissed from service on disciplinary grounds;
 (d)   A person who has vacated his post.
 (e)  A person who was dismissed except in an appeal made to the hon.Governor 
 III.  A person convicted by a court of law for a criminal offence committed against the Democratic Socialist 
republic of sri Lanka;
 IV . A person convicted by a court of law in any criminal proceedings or convicted by a court of law after summary 
inquiry in terms of section 449 of the Criminal procedure Code;
 V .  Any person who has been declared as bankrupt.
 VI.  When an appointment is made, no person who has not resided in the North-West province for the preceding 
three years shall be appointed to the North Western provincial Council public service. however, this section 
may be alleviated with the approval of the Hon.Governor in cases where there is insufficient number of 
applicants within the North West Province and for other justifiable reasons.
Chapter VI 
Terms and Conditions governing Appointments
 46.  All officers shall hold their posts as a public trust. Every officer appointed to a post in the provincial council public 
service shall diligently discharge the duties of the said post for the benefit of the republic and its people.
 47.  It shall be the duty of every provincial public officer
 I.   to uphold and defend the Constitution and all written laws;
 II.   to promote the national interest and foster national unity;
 III.  to work conscientiously in his chosen occupation;
 IV . to preserve and protect public property and to combat against misuse and waste of public property;
 V.   to respect the rights and freedoms of others; and
 VI.  to protect and conserve nature and natural resources.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 48. Every officer shall discharge his duties, responsibilities and functions in accordance with the Constitution of the Democratic 
socialist republic of sri Lanka, and its law, government policy, procedural rules, guidelines, procedures and regulations 
and issued  on provincial public service by the hon. Governor and orders issued from time to time. Furthermore, the 
officers shall be subject to the relevant Service Minutes, Schemes of Recruitment, Establishments Code, Financial 
regulations, other Government orders, government regulations, Circulars, Instructions and departmental orders 
including amendments thereto as may be made from time to time.
 49.  every person who is appointed to a permanent and pensionable post in the public service shall contribute either to the 
Widows’ and orphans’ pension scheme or to the Widowers’ and orphans’ pension scheme, as the case may be or any 
other retirement scheme introduced by the government. the contribution to be made thereto shall be in such manner 
as announced by the government from time to time.
 50.  A person holding a post under a permanent but non-pensionable appointment or on casual, temporary or contract basis 
shall contribute to the public service provident Fund. the contribution to be made thereto shall be in such manner as 
announced by the government from time to time.
 51.  A public officer shall furnish a security deposit, where applicable, in terms of the Public Officers’ Security Ordinance, 
as may be determined by the head of the department.
 52.  A North Western Provincial public officer is bound to serve in any part of the North Western Province.
 53.  Every officer appointed on permanent or contract basis shall be certified by a medical examination that he is physically 
and mentally fit to serve in any part of the North Western Province. This medical examination shall be held in a 
government hospital in the following manner in accordance with the procedure as decided by the secretary to the 
ministry of health or the director General of health services: -
 I. Where a person who does not hold a permanent post in the provincial public service is provisionally selected 
for a permanent appointment or for an appointment on probation with a view to appoint to a permanent 
employment, the Head of the Institute in which the vacancy exists shall direct the selected candidate to fill 
the Form Health 169, and to forward it to the nearest Government Medical Officer In Charge of a hospital 
and to present him/herself for a medical examination. No fee shall be charged for this examination.
 II.  The Medical Officer will make an examination and fill the Form Health 169, which he will forward through the 
head of his Institution to the regional director of health services of his division. the regional director 
of health services shall complete the report and forward it to the relevant head of the department if the 
candidate has been found physically and mentally fit for appointment and to the Director General of Health 
Services if he has been found unfit. In the If is forwarded to the Director General of Health Services, the 
Director General of Health Services shall inform the Head of the Department whether the candidate is fit 
for appointment or whether a further medical examination should be conducted in respect of the candidate.
 III.  A Head of the Department shall ensure that no salary is paid to a newly appointed officer until the medical 
report on the Form Health 169 has been received. However, if the delay is not due to any fault of the officer 
concerned, then the head of the department may pay the salary at his discretion.
 IV .  If the person has been found physically and mentally unfit for appointment according to the medical report, 
such appointment should be cancelled, but he will be eligible to receive the salary for the duration he has 
worked.
 54.  every person appointed to a post in the provincial public service, shall take and subscribe the oath or make and subscribe 
the affirmation in terms of the Fourth Schedule and Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.
 55.  Every officer shall acquire proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil and English, as the case may be, in such manner as required 
by the Official Languages Policy of the government.
 56.  If an officer getting monthly salary wishes to resign from his post, he shall, unless otherwise stated in his letter of 
appointment, give at least one calendar months’ notice in writing to the Appointing Authority. If the Appointing Authority 

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
10A
agrees, he shall pay a sum equivalent to a month’s salary to the government in lieu of one month’s notice and resign. 
However, a resignation of an officer will be effective only from the date decided and communicated by the Appointing 
Authority as the accepted date of resignation.
 57.  Where the Appointing Authority wishes to terminate the services of a monthly paid officer who is not confirmed in the 
provincial council public service in accordance with the conditions contained in his letter of appointment, the Appointing 
Authority shall give one month’s notice to such officer.
 58.  the Appointing Authority may terminate the employment of a person appointed on substitute or casual basis without 
giving prior notice.
 59.  Where it is disclosed at any time after a person has assumed duties in a post in the provincial public service that the 
appointment has been obtained on false information or forged documents furnished by such person to the Appointing 
Authority or any other relevant authority, such officer shall be given due notice of the allegation and an opportunity to 
give explanation. Where the explanation is not acceptable, such appointment shall be revoked forthwith and be deemed 
as invalid and in operative. Furthermore, all amounts of money already paid to him as salaries and allowances by the 
government or the provincial council shall be recovered from him.
 60.  At the first instance where it is disclosed that a person appointed to a post in the provincial council public service does 
not have basic qualifications prescribed for the relevant post, such matter shall be referred forthwith to the Commission 
in order to obtain a decision on such appointment.
Chapter VII 
Procedure to be followed in Recruitment and Appointment 
General
 61.  The Appointing Authority and/or the Administrative Authority shall take action appropriately to fill vacancies in the 
approved cadre without undue delay in accordance with the approved service minute or scheme of recruitment, as 
the case may be, except where financial provision is limited or subject to any restriction as per government policy.
 62.  If special circumstances arise necessitating recruitments to be made outside the approved service minute or scheme 
of recruitment, the request therefore shall be made to the hon. Governor, with the recommendations of the head of 
the department and the secretary to the relevant ministry or the Chief secretary. the hon. Governor reserves the right 
to make decisions thereon, after obtaining the required recommendations from the director General of establishment 
and National salary Commission. however, such requests should not be made as a matter of course.  
 63.  the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority shall make arrangements to hold examinations and/ or 
professional tests and interviews or all of them as prescribed in the service minute or scheme of recruitment, as the 
case may be.
Preliminary Measures
 64.  Where there is a vacancy in a post in the approved cadre or where such a post is created a new, such fact shall be 
reported by the h ead of the d epartment or h ead of the Institution to the relevant Appointing Authority of the respective 
service or post stating whether it is recommended or not to fill such vacancy forthwith. If the filling of such vacancy is 
not recommended, the head of the department or the head of the Institution shall state the reasons therefor in detail. 
In the instances where the Commission is the Appointing Authority, the relevant Administrative Authority shall make 
such recommendation to the Commission.
 65.  If the Head of the Department or the Head of Institution recommends the filling of the vacancy and if the conditions in 
section 30 of Chapter III herein have been met, the Appointing Authority shall approve the notice of calling applications 
prepared in accordance with the approved service minute or scheme of recruitment and the applicable marking scheme 

<!-- page 11 -->

11A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
where selection is made based on an interview for evaluating eligibility and publish them in the manner provided in 
the service minute or the scheme of recruitment, as the case may be.
 66.  Where the Appointing Authority is the public service Commission, the Administrative Authority of the relevant service 
or post shall forward the documents referred to in section 65 to the Commission without delay for approval together 
with his recommendation and publish the said notice as stated in the service minute or the scheme of recruitment as 
the case may be as soon as the approval therefor is received.
 67.  Where the manner in which the notice of calling applications has not been clearly stated in the service minute or the 
scheme of recruitment, the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority shall publish the relevant notice 
by internal circulars for internal candidates and by publication in the government gazette  or popular newspapers and 
websites if available for non-internal candidates.
Holding Examinations and Tests
 68. I.  Where the service minute or the scheme of recruitment provides for a competitive examination is required to be 
held, the applicants shall forward their applications directly to the authority conducting the examination. therefore, 
it shall be the duty of the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority to prepare the notice of calling 
applications.
 II.  Following matters should also be included in a notice published in terms of sections 65 and 66 above.
 i.  Number of applicants expected to be recruited or the date on which the vacancies are calculated.
 ii.   Date on which the applicants should complete the qualifications.
 III.  Where the date of calling for applications is extended upon any reason, the date on which the applicants should 
complete their qualifications prescribed in the original notice should not be changed.
 69.  If the service minute or the scheme of recruitment provides that it includes a professional test or practical test or 
physical fitness test or any other test, in addition to a written competitive examination for recruitment, such written 
competitive examination should be held first.
 70.  Where the service minute or the scheme of recruitment provides for recruitment with an interview awarding marks 
and / or any other examination awarding marks, the authority who conducted the examination shall send the Appointing 
Authority the list of names of the applicants rearranged in the alphabetical sequence, which had been prepared in the 
order of merit, without the marks secured at the written examination for purposes of the interview. 
Holding of Interviews
 71.  the Appointing Authority shall appoint boards of Interview in accordance with the approved service minute or the 
scheme of recruitment, as the case may be.
 72.  A board of interview, unless otherwise provided for in the service minute or the scheme of recruitment, as the case 
may be, shall consist of at least three members and not more than five members including its Chairman who shall be 
a public officer subject to the following conditions:
 I.  At least one member of the board of Interview shall be from a ministry or department other than the ministry 
or department in which the vacancy exists.
 II.  the board of Interview shall be appointed so as to represent both the male and female parties whenever possible
 III.  the board of Interview shall conduct the interview in order to facilitate the use of all three languages where 
necessary and may use the service of an interpreter for this purpose.
 73.  unless otherwise provided for in the approved service minute or the scheme of recruitment or the notice of calling 
applications for the recruitment, as the case may be, the number of applicants to be called for the interview shall be 

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
12A
determined by the Appointing Authority according to the number of vacancies and the order of merit of the aggregate 
marks obtained at the written examination and/ or professional test or such other test awarding marks referred to in 
section 69 or all of them.
 74.  Where selections are made only through an interview where marks are awarded or an interview and any other test referred 
to in section 69 awarding marks without a written examination, the said interview shall be a structured interview or an 
interview for evaluating eligibility and all such tests as applicable shall be indicated in the notice of calling applications 
for the post. Likewise, the manner in which the marks are awarded for such tests shall also be included in the said 
notice.
 75.  the following information and documents shall be provided to a board of Interview:
 (a)  approved service minute or the scheme of recruitment, as the case may be;
 (b) advertisement of calling applications;
 (c) number, names and summary of qualifications of the applicants;
 (d) schedule of the interview;
 76.  every applicant shall be interviewed by a plenary board of Interview. No person other than an interpreter who is not a 
member of the board of Interview shall be allowed to participate in its interviews. For recording marks at the interview, 
a carbon pen or pen with indelible ink shall be used, not pencils. 
 77.  the board of Interview shall ensure that duplicates of all documents produced by candidates at the Interview are duly 
authenticated by them and handed over to it. such documents should thereafter be submitted to the relevant Appointing 
Authority or the Administrative Authority together with the schedule of interview. the appointing authority or the 
administrative authority shall forward a set of copies of the certificates of the appointed applicants among them to the 
personal file along with the copy of the personal file of the appointment letter.
 78.  Where marks are awarded for the performance at the interview, the board of Interview, immediately after the interview, 
shall prepare a schedule of marks in the proper order of merit obtained by the candidates and attach it to the schedules 
of interview and every member of the board of Interview shall sign each page of such schedules.
 79.  Where an interview has to be held to allocate marks after a written examination and/ or a professional test, marks obtained 
by the applicants at the written examination and/ or the professional test shall not be made available to the board of 
Interview. the results of a written examination and/ or the professional test shall not be published for whatever reason 
until the Appointing Authority takes a final decision regarding the appointments. Its utmost confidentiality shall be 
preserved.
 80.  The Appointing Authority, having duly verified the accuracy of the list of names prepared by the Board of Interview 
in accordance with the order of merit obtained at the interview awarding marks and / or the list of names prepared in 
accordance with the order of merit obtained at the other test awarding marks, shall send it to the authority by whom 
the examination was conducted.
 81.  Where the written examination is not held, the Appointing Authority shall prepare a final merit list after aggregating 
the marks obtained at the interview and the marks obtained at the other test.
 82.  Where the Commission is the Appointing Authority, the secretary to the Commission shall forward to the Commission 
a list of applicants prepared in the order of merit of the marks obtained by them, results of the examination, schedules 
of interview and recommendations of the board of Interview together with his own recommendations on the number 
of posts for which relevant appointments should be made.
 83.  the results of a written examination and / or any other test awarding marks shall not be published for whatever reason 
until the Appointing Authority gives his concurrence. once the selection process is over, the Appointing Authority or 
Administrative Authority shall publish the list of names of the appointees.

<!-- page 13 -->

13A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 84.  Where the approved service minute or scheme of recruitment, as the case may be, does not include a structured 
interview or an interview for evaluating eligibility, the interview should be held only for the purpose of verifying the 
certificates of the applicants and confirmation of their qualifications.
 85.  Where the approved service minute or scheme of recruitment, as the case may be, includes a structured interview or 
an interview for evaluating eligibility, no marks shall be awarded for anything produced in the instances other than at 
the time of the interview.
 86.  the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority or the head of the Institution shall draw the attention of the 
members of the board of Interview on these rules prior to commencement of an interview or a professional test.
Selection for Appointment and the Letter of Appointment
 87.  Where the recruitment is made only on the results of a written examination and / or an interview awarding marks and / 
or any other test awarding marks, the appointments shall be made strictly in the order of merit of the aggregate marks 
obtained by the candidates at such written examination and / or interview awarding marks and / or other tests awarding 
marks.
88.  the Commission after receiving the document in terms of section 82 above shall satisfy that the relevant examination or 
interview or all of them has been conducted in accordance with the approved service minute or scheme of recruitment, 
as the case may be, and the approved marking scheme. the Commission may thereafter approve the relevant selections 
in the order of merit of the marks obtained at the examination or interview or any other test awarding marks or all of 
them in consideration of the recommendations of the board of Interview.
 89.  the Appointing Authority shall subsequent to the selection as stated in section 87 above as soon as possible issue a 
formal letter of appointment in the format of Appendix 03 or 04 of these procedural rules.
 90.  Where the Commission is the Appointing Authority, the Commission, after having informed the Administrative Authority 
of the selection, shall, as soon as possible, issue a formal letter of appointment together with the changes, if any, in the 
format of Appendices 03 or 04 of these procedural rules.
 91.  Appointments shall not be made in excess of the number of vacancies which existed as at the date on which the 
qualifications should have been fulfilled as mentioned in the notice of calling applications.
 92.  Where appointments are made on the priority list prepared in the order of merit and where there are several applicants 
who had obtained equal marks for the last vacancy or vacancies, the authority with delegated power shall not fill the 
vacancy or vacancies on the results of the written test and/ or professional test and/ or interview, as the case may be, 
unless otherwise the Commission has given advises, but shall forthwith report the matter to the Commission and seek 
advices. 
Procedure to be followed after Appointment
 93.  A person appointed to a post in the public service whether on casual, temporary or permanent basis shall forthwith 
inform the Appointing Authority in the format of Appendix 05 whether he accepts the post on the terms and conditions 
mentioned in the letter of appointment.
 94.  It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority or Administrative Authority or the head of the department 
or the head of the Institution, to ascertain the identity of the person who accepts the appointment in accordance with 
the letter of appointment.
 95.  The appointee on reporting for duty shall make and subscribe or take and subscribe the affirmation or oath set out in the 
Fourth schedule and the seventh schedule of the Constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka, on 
his first day and within one month of his appointment respectively, before the Appointing Authority or Administrative 

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
14A
Authority or head of department or head of Institution as applicable. It is the responsibility of the relevant authority 
to obtain the affirmation or the oath signed by the appointee. An appointment of an appointee who fails to make and 
subscribe the affirmation or take and subscribe the oath during the stipulated period shall automatically be ceased.
 96.  An appointee on the first day of assuming duties shall hand over a letter in the format of Appendix 06 confirming that 
he reported for duty to the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority or the head of the department or the 
head of the Institution, as the case may be.
 97.  An appointee on assuming duties shall hand over the following documents to the Appointing Authority or the 
Administrative Authority or the head of the department or the head of the Institution, as the case may be:
(a) Certified copy of the National Identity Card;
(b) Birth Certificate;
(c) A set of original documents and their photocopies of educational and other educational qualifications and 
professional certificates presented at the interview to prove the basic educational qualifications required for 
the post along with an affidavit prepared by the appointee certifying that all the documents and certificates 
submitted by him/her are not forged; (the appointee shall certify that the photocopies are of genuine 
certificates and the Appointing Authority shall compare the photocopies with the originals and certify that 
the photocopies are those of the originals. the photocopies shall be retained by the Appointing Authority 
and the originals returned to the officer. ( It is the responsibility of the head of the institution in charge of 
the personal file to ensure that the certificates and documents submitted by the applicant concerned at the 
interview have already been received in the personal file and that the original documents and the current 
documents are comparable in all respects.)  
(d)  If married, Marriage Certificate, Birth Certificate of the spouse, copies of Birth Certificates of children.
(e)   service Agreement on Form General 160;
(f)    declaration of Assets on Form General 261.
(g)   declaration of Assets and Liabilities, where applicable
(h)   Addresses of permanent and temporary residence, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses.
  the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority or the head of the department or the head of the Institution, 
as the case may be, shall have the certificates referred to in (b) and (c) above certified as genuine by the relevant 
authorities within a period of one year of the date of appointment.
 98.  the appointment of a person who fails to report for duty on the date stipulated in the letter of appointment without 
informing a valid reason in writing shall be deemed as cancelled.
 99.  When an appointee to the provincial council public service reports for duty, the Appointing Authority or the Administrative 
Authority or the Head of the Department or the Head of the Institution, as the case may be, shall open a personal file 
for the appointee containing the documents referred to in section 97 above and the following documents and update 
it regularly.
(a) Copy of the Letter of Appointment issued for the purpose of the personal file;
(b)  history sheet;
(c)   Copy of declaration under the Widows’ and orphans’ pension scheme or the Widowers’ and orphans’ 
pension scheme or the public service provident Fund as applicable;
(d)   Certified photocopy of the certificate confirming the security deposit, if required to furnish a security having 
regard to the nature of the appointment;
(e)  medical report on Form health 169;

<!-- page 15 -->

15A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
(f)  Original of the affirmation or oath referred to in Section 95 of this Chapter;
(g)  The absorption letter issued by the Commission to the effect that the officer has been absorbed into the 
North Western provincial Council public service. 
 100.  When an appointee reports for duty, the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority or the head of the 
Department or the Head of the Institution shall attach the officer to a division or branch in his office, or to another 
office or duty station under him. The Head of such division or branch shall without delay hand over a duty list to the 
officer.
 101.  Where an appointee reports for duty, the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority, as the case may be, 
shall inform the Auditor General that the officer has accepted the post.
 102.  Where the publishing the appointment of an officer in the provincial public service to a particular service or post in the 
government gazette  is a legal requirement, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority/ Administrative 
Authority to take prompt action to have such appointment published in the government gazette.
 103.  Once an officer in the provincial public service has been assigned duties, the Appointing Authority or the Administrative 
Authority or the head of the department or the head of the Institution shall provide him with training before the expiry 
of one year from the date of appointment so that his services could be obtained more productively and efficiently. 
Where training is mentioned in any service minute or scheme of recruitment, the training shall be conducted in such 
manner as to meet the requirements stated therein. It shall also be the responsibility of the officer to duly participate 
in such training programmes.
 104.  the medical report to be furnished by an appointee to a post in the provincial council public service on temporary or 
permanent basis shall be obtained from the Medical Officer in Charge of a Government Hospital. The appointee shall 
take necessary action to forward such report to the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority within three 
months of the receipt of the appointment.
 105.  Where a new appointee is found to be physically or mentally unfit for the relevant post following a medical examination, 
the respective Appointing Authority shall take action to terminate the appointment of such officer as soon as the report 
confirming such fact is received from the Director General of Health Services.
Appointing to a post
 106.  It is the responsibility of the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority or the head of the department or 
the head of the Institution to appoint the persons recruited to the provincial council public service according to the 
existing vacancies in compliance with the duly approved service minute or scheme of recruitment and the provisions 
set out in these procedural rules.
 107.  the following procedure shall be adopted with regard to the appointments made by the hon. Governor:
 I.  Where there is a vacancy in a post in the approved cadre or where such a post is created anew, the Chief secretary 
shall make a written request to the Hon.Governor seeking approval to appoint a qualified officer in the public 
service/ provincial council public service to such post in accordance with the approved service minute or 
scheme of recruitment, as the case may be. 
 II.  such request shall be accompanied by a brief report setting out the nature of duties of the particular post.
 III.  On receipt of such request and report, the Hon.Governor shall appoint a suitable officer to the post in terms of 
the approved service minute or scheme of recruitment, as the case may be, and the rules herein contained.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
16A
Concessions to Ex-Servicemen
 108.  ex-servicemen of the Army, Navy and Air Force who are not over 50 years of age seeking employment in the provincial 
council public service shall be granted the following concessions.
 I.  Age Limit
 If an ex-serviceman falls within the maximum age limit of a post to which he seeks appointment after the 
period of his service in an armed service is subtracted from his age, he shall be treated as falling within the 
prescribed age limit. 
 II.  Educational Qualifications
 If an ex – serviceman has obtained the next lower educational level of the minimum educational qualifications 
prescribed in the scheme of recruitment to any post, other than a post for which a degree recognized by the 
University Grants Commission has been prescribed as the educational qualification, he shall be treated as 
having met with the prescribed educational qualifications.
 III.  In case technical and vocational qualifications are taken in to consideration, an ex-serviceman who has gained 
skill and experience by working in relevant technical units of the armed services shall be treated as having 
the required technical or vocational qualifications.
Chapter VIII 
Period of Probation and Confirmation of Appointment
Probationary Period of Three Years
109.  The Appointing Authority shall subject every officer appointed to a permanent post in the provincial council public 
service to a probationary period of three years.
110.  An officer appointed subject to a period of probation shall prove his suitability for the relevant post by diligently 
fulfilling during such period, the obligations and responsibilities imposed on him by his letter of appointment, good 
conduct and attendance and efficient service.
111.  An officer should be regarded as being on probation with a view to learning work and being tested for his suitability for 
permanent retention. he should not only be given all facilities for acquiring experience in the duties and responsibilities 
relevant to his post but also be under continuous monitoring, sympathetic observation and guidance.
112.  Where, during his period of probation, he shows any tendencies which render doubtful his suitability for permanent 
retention, he should at once be warned and given such assistances as may be possible to correct his shortcomings by 
the Appointing Authority/ Administrative Authority. Any admonition administered for any serious act or omission or 
any fault of conduct or character which, if persisted in, may prevent his confirmation, should be communicated to him 
in writing and acknowledgement obtained. Such acknowledgment shall be conclusive proof of the fact that the officer 
was warned of his shortcomings and given an opportunity for improvement.
113.  It shall be the duty of the Appointing Authority to terminate the services of an officer on probation against whom specific 
instances of misconduct cannot be urged but whose temperament, behavior and other defects render him unsuitable 
for further retention in the public service. In such an instance, the Appointing Authority shall ensure that all reasons 
which led to such a decision are recorded specifically and in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support such 
decision are kept secured. the letter of termination should be in the format of Appendix 07 with alterations where 
necessary.

<!-- page 17 -->

17A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
114.  The Head of the Department shall prepare review reports in respect of the first and second years of probation in the 
format of Appendix 08. on receipt of each of the report, it should be carefully considered and where necessary he 
should be warned of any shortcomings. The final review report together with first and second year reports should be 
submitted to the Appointing Authority at least 03 months prior to the expiry of the probationary period. before the 
expiry of the period of probation, all three reports should be taken into consideration by the Appointing Authority and 
an order be made either confirming or extending the period of probation. The officer concerned should be informed of 
the decision in each case in writing.
115.  If the Appointing Authority decides that the officer is not fit and suitable for confirmation, then the Appointing Authority 
may extend his period of probation by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of 03 years and shall defer the 
officer’s increments. Such officer shall diligently engage in improving his performances during such extended period.
116.  Where an inquiry into an irregularity committed by an officer on probation cannot be completed before the expiry of 
the period of probation, the appointment of such officer should be terminated or the period of probation extended taking 
into consideration the circumstances of the case.
117.  At the end of each extended period of probation, the head of the department or the head of the Institution shall 
prepare a review report as per Appendix 08. Where such report reveals deficiencies that may prevent his suitability for 
confirmation in his post, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to extend or terminate the appointment 
of the officer subject to Sections 115 and 116 above. In such an instance, the Appointing Authority shall ensure that all 
reasons which led to such a decision are recorded in detail in the relevant file and all factors that support his decision 
are kept secured. 
Probationary period of One Year
118.  A public officer holding a permanent post in the public service when appointed to another permanent post in the public 
service shall be subject to a probationary period of one year. however, where the prior service and experience of an 
officer already confirmed in the public service is not a criterion of eligibility for the new post, such officer shall be 
subject to a probationary period of three years.
119.  If the Appointing Authority deems that the probationary period of one year is inadequate considering the period the 
officer would normally require to fulfil any condition that may be laid down for confirmation in the new post, the 
Appointing Authority may determine a sufficient period of probation not more than three years.
120.  Where a public officer whose appointment has been confirmed is appointed to another permanent post in the public 
service or provincial public service subject to a probationary period of one year, the head of department or head of 
the Institution shall prepare a review report in respect of such officer in the format of Appendix 08.
121.  Where such review report reveals any deficiencies that might prevent his suitability for confirmation in his post, such 
fact must be forthwith communicated to the officer in writing and timely guidance given by the Head of the Department 
or the Head of the Institution and the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority shall defer the officer’s 
increment and extend his period of probation by one year at a time subject to a maximum period of 03 years.
122.  Where an inquiry into an irregularity committed by an officer on probationary period of one year cannot be completed 
before the expiry of the period of probation, the Appointing Authority shall take action to extend the probationary 
period of such officer taking into consideration the circumstances of the case.
Confirmation or Reversion or Termination of Appointment
 123.  An officer appointed to the provincial public service subject to a period of probation, shall prove within this period, his 
suitability for provincial public service by diligently fulfilling the obligations and responsibilities imposed on him by 
his letter of appointment, good conduct and attendance and efficient service. If at the end of the period of probation, the 
officer’s work, conduct and attendance are judged to have been satisfactory, and if he has fulfilled all the requirements 
for confirmation in that appointment, the appropriate authority shall confirm his service with effect from the date of 
appointment concerned.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
18A
124.  In the event of termination of the appointment of an officer appointed as per Section 118 above at the end of the period 
of probation, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to revert him to his former post. If the former post 
of the officer is no longer vacant, he shall be reverted to such post on supernumerary basis. However, when a vacancy 
occurs in the substantive post, he should be appointed to such substantive post. In such an instance, the Appointing 
Authority or Administrative Authority shall ensure that all reasons which led to such a decision are recorded in detail 
in the relevant file and all factors that support his decision are kept secured, as the case may be. Letter of reversion to 
the former post shall be prepared in the format of Appendix 09 with necessary alterations. When an officer is reverted 
and placed in his former post without a break in his former service, the conditions of appointment relating to his former 
post shall once again come into force.
125.  The Appointing Authority shall take action to confirm the appointment or to extend the period of probation or to terminate 
the appointment of a an officer in the provincial public service on probation as soon as the officer concerned completes 
such period of probation. If his period of probation had been extended on grounds that were within his control, his 
salary increment shall invariably be deferred until he is confirmed in his post. All such decisions, whatever, shall be 
communicated to the officer in writing by the Appointing Authority. The officer shall have no claim whatsoever for 
salary increments deferred owing to his deficiencies. 
126.  Notwithstanding the fact that all the requirements have been fulfilled on the due date, appointment of a public officer 
is deemed to have been confirmed only after the issuance of a formal letter in the format of Appendix 10 to the effect 
that the relevant appointment has been confirmed by the Appointing Authority. Until such a letter is issued, the officer 
shall be deemed as not having been confirmed in his appointment. The relevant Appointing Authority shall be mindful 
of the fact that such letters should be issued duly and without delay in order to avoid any hardship that may be caused 
to the officer by the delay in issuing a letter even after the fulfilment of all requirements. 
127.  Where an officer in the provincial public service is unable to fulfil qualifications during the prescribed period for 
confirmation in his appointment owing to reasons beyond his control, the Appointing Authority may extend his period 
of probation by a reasonable period of time enabling him to obtain such qualifications. It shall be the duty of such 
public officer to obtain the required qualifications for confirmation in his appointment during the extended length of 
time. In such case, the officer shall be confirmed in his appointment with effect from the date of his appointment in 
such a manner that it will have no adverse effect on his seniority and salary increments. Provided, however, that the 
Appointing Authority shall terminate his appointment if the officer fails to obtain the required qualifications during 
the extended period of the probation owing to his negligence or inattention.
128.  Where an officer in the provincial public service fails to qualify for confirmation at the proper time, that is within the 
initial period of probation, for reasons within his control, but qualifies for confirmation during an extension of the 
period of probation granted to him, the salary increment falling due after the expiry of the initial period of probation 
will be deferred by the length of time taken in excess of the initial period allowed to qualify and he shall be confirmed 
in his appointment with effect from the date of his appointment. In this case, the Appointing Authority shall issue a 
letter in the format of Appendix 10. Furthermore, the seniority in the service or grade of an officer so confirmed shall 
be determined by the date on which he acquired all necessary qualifications for confirmation.
129.  However, where a public officer fails to complete the period of probation prescribed in his letter of appointment owing to 
a reason beyond his control such as reaching on the age of compulsory retirement or permanent release from the service, 
such a case shall be referred to the Hon. Governor to make a decision on the confirmation of the officer confirmed.
Chapter IX 
Appointment to Act in a post or Attend to the duties  of a post
130.  the power to make an appointment to act or attend to duties in a post lies solely with the Appointing Authority.
131.  A public officer should be appointed to act in a post only under the following circumstances.

<!-- page 19 -->

19A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 I.  to bear the responsibilities and perform the duties of a particular post in the approved cadre of a ministry or 
department or and institute  in the provincial Council, where the substantive holder of such post is away 
from work for a particular length of time with due approval or;  
 II.  to bear the responsibilities and perform the duties of a particular post remaining vacant in the approved cadre of 
a ministry or department or an institution in the provincial Council until such time the Appointing Authority 
makes a permanent appointment to such post.
 132.  Only an officer who is confirmed in his substantive post and is serving in a comparable post or a post immediately 
below it and has fulfilled all the qualifications stipulated in the approved Service Minute or the Scheme of Recruitment 
of the relevant post can be appointed to act in such post.
 133.  An acting appointment shall be made for the performance of the work of a post on full-time basis or in addition to the 
duties of a post already held by the relevant officer.
 134.  An officer holding an acting appointment shall not be entitled to the salary of the post to which he has been appointed 
to act whether on a temporary or a permanent basis.
Appointment to attend to duties of a post
135.  Where no officer qualified for appointment in terms of Section 132 above to act in a post that has fallen vacant is 
available, a most suitable officer may be appointed by the Appointing Authority to attend to the duties of such post.
136.  Any allowance and privilege attached to a particular post may be enjoyed by the officer acting or attending to the duties 
in such post during the period of acting or the period of attending to the duties of the post. he shall have no claim for 
such allowance or privilege when the acting appointment or period of attending to the duties is terminated.
137.  An officer can be appointed to attend to the duties of a particular post only if such post is either superior or comparable 
to the post the officer presently holds.
General conditions governing acting appointments or appointments to attend to duties of a post
 138.  Only an officer in a service specified in the Service Minute or Scheme of Recruitment relating to a particular post can be 
appointed to act or attend to the duties in such post and an officer belonging to any other service shall not be appointed 
to such post.
 139.  Any appointment to act or attend to duties shall be subject to a maximum period of one year. before the expiry of such 
period, the Administrative Authority or / and the Appointing Authority shall appoint a suitable officer to such post on 
permanent basis. however, the Appointing Authority may consider the extension of an appointment to act or attend to 
duties beyond a period of one year.
 140.  Where the Appointing Authority has appointed a permanent officer to a post for which an appointment had been made 
to act or perform duties of such post, it shall be the responsibility of the head of the Institution or the head of the 
department or the Appointing Authority to provide him with necessary facilities to perform the duties in such post. 
When a permanent appointment is made by the Appointing Authority, the appointment made on the basis of acting or 
attending to duties to such post shall automatically cease.
 141.  Where a permanent appointment is made to a post, no officer shall be afforded any special entitlement to such post 
or any special advantage or any additional amount of marks under the service minute or the scheme of recruitment 
solely on the basis of his having acted or attended to duties in that particular post.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
20A
Chapter X 
Efficiency Bar
General
 142.   A public officer shall fulfil the requirements of the Efficiency Bar as stipulated in the Service Minute or the Scheme 
of Recruitment, for confirmation in the appointment or promotion to a higher post or to pass a specific salary step.
143.  Efficiency Bar Examinations shall be conducted by the appropriate authority as prescribed in the Service Minute or the 
scheme of recruitment.
144.  Where the authority who should conduct the Efficiency Bar Examinations has not been specified in the Service Minute 
or the Scheme of Recruitment, such Efficiency Bar Examinations shall be conducted by the Appointing Authority or 
an officer or institution designated by the Appointing Authority.
145.  An officer who has passed the Efficiency Bar Examination shall be issued a letter in the format of Appendix 11 without 
delay by the Appointing Authority stating that he has passed the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination. Furthermore, the 
competent authority shall take action to attach a photocopy of such letter to the relevant form required for the approval 
of the next salary increment of such officer.
146.  The effective date of passing an examination for the purpose of confirmation of an appointment to a permanent post 
or promotion or passing an Efficiency Bar will be the date of conducting that examination at which the officer fulfils 
the requirement. If, however, no examination has been held on the prescribed date by any means, the effective date 
of passing such examination by an officer shall be determined by the Commission having regard to the reason for the 
delay in holding the examination.
147.  The effective date of passing an Efficiency Bar Examination by an officer shall be the commencing date of the examination 
at which he completes such requirement of the Efficiency Bar.
148.  Where an officer is required to acquire a postgraduate degree or diploma or equivalent qualification as a requirement 
for completing the Efficiency Bar Examination, the date stated as being valid in such certificates shall be reckoned as 
the date on which he completes the requirement of the Efficiency Bar. However, where the effective date mentioned in 
such certificates is a date prior to the appointment of the officer to the service, that officer can accordingly be released 
from the requirement of the relevant Efficiency Bar.
Delay in passing the Efficiency Bar Examination
149.  Where an officer fails to pass an Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date, the Appointing Authority or the 
Administrative Authority or the head of the department or the head of the Institution, as the case may be, shall defer 
the salary increment of such officer with effect from that date and formally inform the officer of such fact. When the 
increments are deferred by the respective head of the department or head of the Institute, a copy of the letter informing 
the officer of such fact should also be sent to the Appointing Authority and the Administrative Authority.  
150.  It shall only be with the approval of the provincial public service Commission or an authority with delegated power, 
that an officer who could not complete the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date owing to any special reason 
beyond his control may be granted an extension of the prescribed time to pass such examination. The officer shall 
prior to lapse of a period of one year after passing the prescribed Efficiency Bar Examination make a request for such 
extension in writing in the prescribed form to the provincial public service Commission or the authority with delegated 
power.
151.  An officer may be allowed to draw his salary increments during the period so extended. Furthermore, such an extended 
period shall not be an impediment for the promotions or for the seniority of the officer. 

<!-- page 21 -->

21A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
152.  If an officer does not pass the prescribed Efficiency Bar Examination during the extended period referred to in Section 
150, the salary increment that falls due immediately after the expiry of such period shall be deferred by a period of 
time equal to the time taken in excess of the extension allowed to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination.
Departmental Examinations
153.  the departmental examinations, as appropriate, shall be included in the relevant service minute or the scheme of 
recruitment submitted for the approval of the hon. Governor.
154.  A method or system should be drawn up for each departmental examination stipulated for confirmation and promotion. 
It shall be the responsibility of the head of the department or the head of the Institution to ensure that such method 
or system is formulated and that the relevant examination is held on the due dates.
155.  The Appointing Authority shall take action to duly inform the officers concerned about the date on which the departmental 
examination is held at least three weeks before the closing date of the applications for it.
Chapter XI 
Seniority
Seniority List
156.  It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to prepare and continue to update the seniority list.
157.  It shall be the responsibility of the respective Administrative Authority to prepare and continue to update the seniority 
list of the services over which the public service Commission is the Appointing Authority.
158.  It shall be the responsibility of the authority referred in sections 156 or 157 to publish the seniority list updated as at 
the 01
st of January and the 01st of July every year.
Determination of Seniority
159.  The seniority of officers in a class or grade of a particular service in the provincial public service shall be determined 
based on the dates on which each of such officers was appointed to such class or grade in that particular service and the 
seniority of officers serving in the posts carrying equal status in a particular department or institution shall be determined 
based on the dates on which each of such officers assumed duties of that particular department or institution.
160.  Where more than one officer had assumed duties on a particular day, their seniority shall be determined in the order of 
cumulative total of marks obtained by them at all the tests held for recruitment in accordance with the service minute 
or Scheme of Recruitment. Where there are officers who had obtained equal marks, all of them shall be deemed as 
having the same seniority.
161.  Seniority of an officer in a grade or class shall only be altered in the following instances.
 I.  Where he fails to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination as at the due date;
 II.  Where his probationary period is extended in terms of section 125 of Chapter VIII of these procedural rules;
 III.  Where an order of demotion in seniority is made as a disciplinary punishment.
 162.  Where an officer is reverted to his previous post, his seniority in the post or grade to which he is reverted will be 
determined in accordance with the following rules.
 I.  Where an officer is demoted in seniority or rank and is reverted on disciplinary grounds to a lower grade or 
post that he held previously, his seniority in the lower grade or post on such reversion shall be determined 
in accordance with the order of the disciplinary Authority.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
22A
 II.  In case of an officer is reverted with the approval of the Appointing Authority to a post or grade previously 
held by him due to abolition of office or due to redundancy, his seniority in the post or grade to which he is 
reverted should be determined on the basis of his aggregate service in that relevant post or grade together 
with the approval of the Public Service Commission. Accordingly, he will be junior to all officers whose 
length of service in that post or grade is equal to or more than the aggregate of his service in that particular 
post or grade. If he has not passed an Efficiency Bar Examination, he shall not be placed in seniority over 
any officer who has been promoted having passed the Efficiency Bar Examination.
 III.  If an officer is reverted at his own request and with the approval of the Appointing Authority to a post previously 
held by him, such reversion will be deemed as a new appointment and his seniority shall be determined by 
the date of reversion. Provided that, in case a salary step higher than the initial is allowed to such officer with 
the approval of the director General of establishments as per the provisions stated in the establishments 
Code, his seniority may, with the approval of the Commission, be determined with reference either to the 
length of service in that post at the time he relinquished it or the time an officer appointed on the initial of 
the salary scale would take to reach that salary step, whichever is less.
 IV .  An officer who has been temporarily released on no pay leave for a post outside the provincial public service 
(see Chapter XII) will retain his seniority in his post or grade if he has passed the prescribed Efficiency 
bar examination, and that the no pay leave is deemed to have been granted on grounds of public policy for 
purposes of the minutes on pensions.
 V . Where no pay leave is not granted or not deemed to have been granted on grounds of public policy for the 
purpose of section 10 (1) of the minutes on pensions, the period of such temporary release shall not be 
counted for seniority and such officer shall be ranked as junior to all those officers whose length of service 
in the particular post or grade on the date on which he reverts to his former post is more than his service up 
to the date on which he was temporarily released.
 VI.  Where an officer being appointed to a new post in the provincial public service itself is duly reverted or returned 
to his former post by the Appointing Authority during the training period or probationary period related thereto 
for reasons other than disciplinary grounds, the period served by such officer in such post he subsequently 
held shall be deemed as part of his service in determining his seniority in his former post. 
163.  An officer who has been permanently released in terms of the provisions in Chapter XII shall have no right of reversion 
to his former post or service.
 I.  However, the Commission may consider a request for reversion of an officer to his former post or grade within 
a period of one year from the date of his release only upon the following circumstances.
 i.  Medical grounds concerning the officer;
 ii.  Legal matters;
 iii.  policy decisions made by the government.
 II.  Notwithstanding the other provisions set out in these procedural rules, the reversion to such post will be 
regarded for all purposes as a new appointment made outside the scheme of recruitment and his seniority 
will be determined as at date of his reversion to such post. However, such officer shall have the right to a 
higher seniority over another officer who has received appointment on the date he is reverted to such post.
 164.  On reemployment, the seniority of an officer will be determined in accordance with the following rules.
 I.  Where an officer who has retired is reemployed in the same post or grade from which he retired, his seniority 
will be determined by the period he had served in the post or grade from which he retired, up to the date of 
his retirement. 
 II.  Where an officer who has retired is reemployed in a post or grade other than that from which he retired, his 
seniority will be determined by the date of his reemployment.

<!-- page 23 -->

23A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 III.  Where an officer whose prior services have been terminated by resignation or vacation of post or by reason of 
unsatisfactory work and conduct is reinstated, he will not be entitled to any claim for seniority on account 
of his past services. his seniority will be determined by the date of his reinstatement.
Chapter XII 
Releasing an officer for appointment to another post in the provincial council public service
 165.  If an officer holding an appointment in the provincial public service wishes to obtain an appointment to another post 
in the provincial public service, he shall secure his release regularly from the appointment he holds.
 166.  the application to secure such release shall be made to the Appointing Authority through the head of the department 
or head of the Institution in accordance with the Appendices 12 or 13, as the case may be.
167.  The Appointing Authority shall not refuse an application for release by an officer unless,
 I.  The officer is under a bond to serve in that post or Department;
 II.  even though he is not under a bond, he has been specially trained to perform the duties of his post;
 III.  Where it would very seriously affect the work of that Department to the extent that it out-weighs the consideration 
that the said Department will get the benefit of his services in another post under the Provincial Council.
168.  If an officer has received a special training to perform the duties of the post he holds as referred to in Section 167 above, 
he should be released for service in a new post only if his training will be directly useful for the new post he seeks.
169.  If an officer holding an appointment in the provincial public service is selected to another post in the provincial public 
service for which he is required to undergo training, he shall be released for such training.
170.  Where an officer so released for training is unable to secure the appointment upon completion of the training, such 
officer shall be reverted to his substantive post.
171.  The Head of the Department shall obtain the approval of the Secretary concerned before releasing an officer or 
recommending his release to the Appointing Authority if it would adversely affect the work of the Department to any 
appreciable degree.
Release for a post outside the provincial public service
172.  The instances where an officer may be released by the Appointing Authority from the provincial public service temporarily 
or permanently either at the officer’s own request or on a need of the government with the consent of the officer, shall 
be as follows. However, the confirmation of the officer in service is a basic requirement for the purpose of temporary 
or permanent release set out in I to XII below.
 I.  t o the public service or other provincial council public service;
 II.  To a post in the Presidential Secretariat/Prime Minister’s Office;
 III.  To a post in the staff of Parliament of Sri Lanka;
 IV .  To an approved post in the staff of Parliament or a Provincial Council or a Public Representative or a Provincial 
Governor;
 V.   For service in a V olunteer Force;
 VI.  For service in a Commission appointed by the president under the Commissions of Inquiry Act or for service 
in a commission established under the Constitution or any other law;
 VII.  t o a post in a government university recognized by the university Grants Commission;

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
24A
 VIII. to a post in a public corporation or statutory body;
 IX.  t o a post in a project implementing under local or foreign funds;
 X.  t o a post in a company owned by the government;
 XI.  t o a post in a company of which the government holds more than 50% of shares and/or controlling interest;
 XII. For taking up employment in an intergovernmental agency such as united Nations, World bank and International 
monetary Fund;
173.  The government unless otherwise decided as a policy, the Appointing Authority shall not refuse to release an officer 
who seeks to better his future prospects unless:
 I.  The officer is under a bond to serve in that post or the Department concerned;
 II.  he has been specially trained to perform the duties of his post;
 III.  It would adversely affect the work of his Department owing to his release;
 IV .  Where the public officer is not confirmed in his post or service;
 V .  Where the officer has not passed the required Efficiency Bar Examinations and/or departmental examinations 
on the date he seeks release from public service;
 VI.  Where disciplinary action against the officer is in progress, or is contemplated against him; (Disciplinary 
action contemplated herein means that a preliminary investigation in connection with the incident have been 
initiated or the explanations thereon have been called for from the officer concerned.)
 VII. Where there is legal proceeding against the officer relating to any matter connected with the government;
 VIII. Where the period specified in a legal agreement binding the officer for service to the provincial council for 
a particular duration is pending;
 IX.  Where it is clearly apparent that the release of such officer if effected, will cause a problematic or difficult or 
adverse situation to the performance or maintenance of duties in the department or the Institution in which 
the officer is already working;
 X.  Where no arrangements have been made to settle in full or in instalments the balance of a loan obtained by the 
officer from the provincial council, in accordance with the relevant regulations and circular instructions;
 XI. Where there is an outstanding amount of money due to the provincial council from the officer other than the 
unsettled loans;
 XII. Where he has not absolved the provincial council of all responsibilities regarding any pending relief or privilege 
granted to him by some other party under the securities of the provincial council when he was serving as an 
officer in the provincial council public service;
 XIII. Where the provincial council, when such officer has entered into a surety agreement or any other similar 
bond with the provincial council, has not entered into a surety agreement with a new surety following the 
introduction of such new surety;
 XIV . When the concurrence of the secretary to the ministry in charge of the department/institute where such 
officer in employed has not been received.
174.  the provisions in section 173 shall be subject to the following exceptions.
 I.  If an officer has received a special training to perform the duties of the class or grade or post he holds as referred 
to in sub section II of section 173 above, he may be released for service in a new post only if his training 
will be directly useful for the new post he seeks.
 II.  If the relevant Provincial Council or a government institution to which an officer is to be released has given an 
undertaking in writing to recover the balance of the loan in instalments from the officer and remit same to 
the relevant head of the department, such balance of a loan shall not be an impediment for his release.

<!-- page 25 -->

25A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
175.  the government unless otherwise decided as a policy, the periods for which the Competed Authority may release an 
officer from the provincial council public service on temporary basis shall be as follows.
 I.  For a period agreed upon by both parties to a post in a volunteer force or a post in the staff of Parliament of 
Sri Lanka or a post in the Presidential Secretariat or for an officer of the All Island Service, to a post in the 
provincial public service;
 II.   For a period requested by a Commission appointed by the president under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, for 
a particular post in such Commission;
 III.   For a period not exceeding 05 years to a post in a university in sri Lanka recognized by the university Grants 
Commission or to a post in a public corporation or a post in a government project or a post in a company 
owned by the government or a post in a company of which the government holds more than 50% of shares 
and/or controlling interest;
 IV .  For a period not exceeding two years to work in a Welfare Association of public officers;
 V .   For a period, an officer holds a post in the Trade Union for service in a Trade Union with an approved number 
of active members and registered in the department of Labour;
 VI. For a period not exceeding 05 years, for an officer confirmed in service to take up employment in an 
intergovernmental agency such as united Nations development programme and World health organization 
with the concurrence of the government.
 176. An officer may be released for a post outside the provincial council public service only with the sanction of the Appointing 
Authority and any other authority whose concurrence is required by the law under which the Institution concerned is 
constituted.
177. every such release requires the concurrence of the Appointing Authority to ensure the preservation of pension rights 
of an officer during a period of temporary release to a post outside the provincial council public service and, in the 
case of permanent release, the conferment of benefits under the Minutes on Pensions in respect of the service rendered 
under the provincial council.
178. Where the request for release is made by an officer at his own instance, he shall apply to the Appointing Authority as 
per Appendix 12 and where it is made on the needs of the government or public policy, the secretary to the ministry 
to which the officer is proposed to be appointed shall make the request to the Appointing Authority in the format of 
Appendix 13 along with a letter of consent from the officer.
179. An officer with a remaining period of less than 3 years to reach the age of compulsory retirement should not be released 
temporarily or permanently for service to a post outside the provincial Council public service at the instance of the 
officer, unless
 I.   There is no other suitable officer in the service of the Institution concerned who could be appointed to the post;
 II. It is found after advertisement that there is no suitable person who could be recruited to the post outside the 
Institution.
 180.  If an officer is released temporarily, he may be released for a period of 2 years at the first instance with subsequent 
extensions of one year at a time, subject to a maximum period of 5 years.
 181. Where an officer has been temporarily released to a post outside the provincial council public service on the need of 
the government or the provincial council or the grounds of public policy, he shall be deemed to have been on no pay 
leave on grounds of public policy for the purpose of section 10 (I) of the minutes on pensions. Any period involving 
such release shall be reckoned as an active period of service for a purpose whatsoever.
182. The pension contribution in respect of an officer on temporary release to a post outside the Provincial Council Public 
service shall be 25% of his consolidated salary. this applies to all cases of temporary release, irrespective of purpose, 
where a pension contribution is stipulated.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
26A
183. The government unless otherwise has decided as a policy, when an officer is released at his own instance, he will be 
granted no pay leave and he will not be entitled to the benefits of Section 10 (1) of the Minutes on Pensions. He will 
not be considered for promotion to any vacancy or grade to grade promotion which may arise during the period of his 
release.
184. If an officer is permanently released for post in an institution outside the Provincial Council Public service, the terms 
and conditions of his release will be governed by the law under which that Institution is constituted and by the relevant 
provisions of the minutes on pensions.
185. An officer in the Provincial Council Public Service who wishes to become or to be a member of the V olunteer Force or 
the V olunteer reserve of the security Forces or any such person who is a member of that Force or reserve, should be 
released and provided all facilities to undergo and to render such military training and military service on production 
of a document from the Commander of the relevant Force or from any authority duly authorized to do so on his behalf.
186. The release of an officer to a post outside the provincial council public service on temporary basis shall end in any 
one of the following instances. In such an event it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to recall the 
officer to his former service or post.
 I.  Completion of the period of release;
 II.  When the respective Head of the Institution to which the officer was released has reported that his services are 
no longer needed by it;
 III.  The closure of the institution to which such officer was released.
 187. However, The Commission may take action in respect of an officer released as stated in I, II, and IV under Section 172 
disregarding the conditions and limitations stipulated in this Chapter.  
188.     reversion to former post
 I.  An officer who has resigned or has been permanently released from his post to accept another post whether 
in the provincial public service or outside it, have no right of reversion to his former post.
 II.  In case of reversion, if permitted, shall be regarded for all purposes as a new appointment made outside the 
scheme of recruitment, and shall, in all cases, require the approval of the hon. Governor.
189. Whenever reversion is so permitted, the seniority of the officer shall be determined by Sub Section II of Section 163 
of Chapter XI.
Chapter XIII 
Reemployment or Reappointment in the public service of a person retired from the Public Service 
General
190.  The authority for reemployment of an officer retired from the public service or provincial public service in the provincial 
public service shall be vested only with the hon. Governor.
191.  A person who has retired from the public service or provincial public service on reaching the age of compulsory 
retirement may be reemployed only on contract basis. such an appointment at a time shall be limited to a period of 
one year. however, this shall be executed subject to the policy decisions taken by the government from time to time.
192.   the following persons are not eligible for reemployment in the provincial public service.
 I.  a person who has opted on his own intention to retire on a government policy decision;

<!-- page 27 -->

27A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 II.  a person against whom disciplinary action has been initiated or who has been subject to disciplinary punishment 
against an offence set out in the Disciplinary Procedure of the North Western Provincial Council or in the First 
schedule of V olume II of the establishments Code during the period of three years immediately preceding 
his retirement;
 III.  a person retired under section 12 of the minutes on pensions;
 IV .  a person not qualified for appointment to the Provincial Public Service as set out in Chapter V
193. In case a person who has retired from the public service or provincial public service is reemployed, the letter of 
appointment shall be issued in the format of Appendix 04 with amendments where necessary.
194. A person who has retired from public service or provincial public service otherwise than in a manner set out in section 
192 above before reaching compulsory age of retirement shall not be reappointed in a post in the provincial public 
service except under exceptional circumstances. If such a person is reappointed to the provincial public service, it 
shall be so done on the basis of freezing his pension until he reaches the age of compulsory retirement.
Reemployment of a person retired on medical grounds
195.  A person who has been retired from the public service or provincial public service on medical grounds may be reemployed 
by the Hon.Governor to fill a vacancy in the class or grade or post from which he retired, only upon all the following 
conditions being satisfied.
 I.  He shall not be disqualified under (II) or (IV) of Section 192;
 II.  A duly constituted Government Medical Board has certified that he is physically and mentally fit enough to 
perform satisfactorily the duties of the respective post;
 III.  he has not reached the optional age of retirement as at the date of reemployment;
 IV .  At least one year has elapsed since the date of retirement.
196.  Whenever a person who had been retired on medical grounds is reemployed, his pension shall be frozen and he shall 
be placed on the salary point he drew at the time of retirement or on the corresponding salary point if there had been 
a salary revision.
197.  A person who is reemployed or reappointed shall be issued a letter of appointment setting out the terms and conditions 
of his reemployment or reappointment.
Chapter XIV 
Termination of Appointment and Resignation from Provincial Public Service
Termination of Appointment
198.  the Appointing Authority is vested with the power to terminate an appointment of a substitute employee or temporary 
officer or a casual officer without giving prior notice or reasons. However, he shall record in the respective file the 
reasons for such decision.
199.  The Appointing Authority may terminate the services of a public officer on probation, within his period on probation, 
in accordance with the provisions in Chapter VIII.
Resignation
200.  An officer cannot resign with retrospective effect under any circumstances from Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
28A
201.  Where a letter of resignation is received from a public officer in terms of Section 56 of Chapter VI by a Head of the 
department, he shall forthwith clarify the following matters.
I.  that there are no disciplinary proceedings pending against the officer or that there is no prima facie case 
indicating immediate initiation of such proceedings or that no disciplinary action is contemplated against the 
officer;
II.  that there is no agreement or bond binding the officer for a specific period of service to the Provincial Council;
III.  that there is no sum of money whatsoever due to the government from the officer;
IV .  that he has absolved the government of any pending responsibilities as regards relief and privileges provided 
to him by a third party on surety furnished by the government when he was serving as a public officer in the 
provincial public service;
V.   that all the properties owned by the government or Provincial Council at the custody of the officer have been 
returned to the government or the provincial Council;
VI.  that there are no legal proceedings pending against the officer on a matter in connection with the government 
or the provincial Council;
VII.  that the officer has presented another qualified surety for any surety agreement the person so presented has 
entered into with the government or the provincial council and that the other surety has entered into a new 
surety agreement with the government or the provincial Council.
202.  Where it appears to the Head of the Department that the resignation of the public officer cannot be accepted due to any 
of the reasons mentioned in Section 201 above, a full report together with certified copies of supporting documents 
shall be sent forthwith by the head of the department to the Appointing Authority with the letter of resignation of the 
officer.
203.  Where the Head of the Department is satisfied that no impediment is caused by any matter referred to in the Sections 
above for the acceptance of the resignation, he shall forward without delay his report and recommendations together 
with the letter of resignation to the Appointing Authority.
204.  Subject to the provisions of Section 206 below, when an officer resigns from his post, he shall forfeit all claims to a 
pension or gratuity and all the entitlements and benefits arising from his service prior to resignation and he shall be so 
informed in writing within 7 working days by the head of the department or the head of the Institution.
205.  An acknowledgement from the officer that he has been informed of the terms stated in Section 204 above should be 
obtained in writing by the head of the department or the head of the Institution.
206.  The officer should be informed in writing that if the resignation is accepted, no application to withdraw it later shall 
be considered.
207.  the Appointing Authority, after consideration of the report and recommendation of the head of the department, shall 
inform the public officer concerned, through the Head of the Department, in writing that the resignation has been 
accepted with effect from the date such officer has requested for resignation.
208.  Where after the head of the Institution receives the letter through which the acceptance of the resignation was informed 
by the Appointing Authority as per Section 207 above, he shall forthwith communicate it to the officer concerned and, 
in case the officer has already reported to duty after exceeding the date from which he requested for resignation, his 
resignation date shall come into force from the date immediately after the last day he reported to duty. In such instances, 
it shall be the responsibility of the head of the Institute to obtain the approval of the Appointing Authority for the date 
so amended.
209.  Where the Appointing Authority decides that the resignation cannot be accepted, the Appointing Authority shall 
immediately communicate such fact to the officer concerned through the Head of the Department together with reasons 
for such decision.

<!-- page 29 -->

29A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
210.  An officer who is in receipt of a notice that his resignation cannot be accepted in terms of the above Section 209 above 
shall have to serve the provincial public service further. In case such officer fails to report for duty, the officer shall be 
deemed to have vacated his post on his own accord and action shall be taken in terms of Chapter XV . If an officer has 
tendered his resignation to take up a higher post, the heads of departments should arrange for his immediate release 
subject to existing rules without prejudice to his seniority.
Chapter XV 
Vacation of Post  
General
211.  Every public officer shall report for duty unless his leave has been formally approved.
212.  Where an officer is unable to report to his duty station, it is his responsibility to inform the relevant authority of such 
inability well in advance and have his leave duly approved so that the competent authority may take alternative measures 
to ensure that the work assigned to him is attended to.
213.  However, where a public officer is unable to report for duty owing to unavoidable circumstances without getting his 
leave approved, it shall be the responsibility of the officer to somehow inform the Head of the Institution of his absence 
within 24 hours of the time of commencement of his duty on that particular day. 
214.  A public officer who absents himself from duty without informing his Head of the Institution as stated above shall be 
deemed to have vacated his post. It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority or the head of the department 
or Head of its Provincial/ District/ Divisional Office or the Head of the Institution, as the case may be, to issue a Notice 
of Vacation of Post to the officer concerned forthwith by registered post, in the format of Appendix 14. If the vacation 
of post notice is issued by an authority other than the Appointing Authority, copies of the Notice of Vacation of post 
shall be sent to the Appointing Authority and to other relevant authorities.
215.  A charge sheet against an officer who is deemed to have vacated post should not be served, nor should call upon to 
submit explanation for his absence without leave.
216.  If a person who is deemed to have vacated his post, submits an appeal in writing to his disciplinary Authority giving an 
explanation regarding his absence and requesting reinstatement in service within three months of the date on which the 
Notice of Vacation of post was served, the disciplinary Authority should consider his appeal in terms of the disciplinary 
rules.
217.  If the Disciplinary Authority upon receipt of an appeal is of the view that the officer has not reported for duty due to 
acceptable reasons, he may order either the reinstatement or the reappointment of the officer in any of the following 
manner.
 I.  With appropriate disciplinary punishments;
 II.  subject to appropriate conditions;
 III.  subject to appropriate disciplinary punishments and appropriate conditions;
 IV .  Without punishments and conditions. 
218.  The total period of absence from service of the officer reinstated or reappointed in accordance with Section 217 above 
shall be deemed as a period on no pay and such period shall not be considered as one that has an entitlement for the 
purpose of any promotions or computation of pension benefits or granting of salary increments or any other benefits.
219.  If the disciplinary Authority considers that the matters set out in the appeal are unacceptable, he may reject the appeal 
for reinstatement.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
30A
220.  The Disciplinary Authority shall record the reasons for his decision in the relevant file. Furthermore, he shall also duly 
communicate his decision to such officer.
221.  Where an officer who has not been duly served with a notice of vacation of post as stated in Section 214 above requests 
to report for duty, the Appointing Authority may order the head of the Institution or the head of the department to issue 
a Notice of Vacation of Post to such officer as per Section 214 above. An appeal received upon a notice of vacation of 
post may nevertheless be dealt with in accordance with sections from 215 to 220 above.
222.  Where the Disciplinary Authority is not being the Public Service Commission, an officer may appeal against such 
decision or order made under section 217 or 219 above to the Commission within six (06) months from the date of 
such decision or order.
223.  The Commission may, upon consideration of such an appeal, alter or vary or rescind or confirm the decision or order 
made by the Disciplinary Authority or give some other appropriate direction as the Commission shall deem fit.
224.  A public officer who is aggrieved by a decision or order made by the Commission may submit an appeal to the Hon. 
Governor.
Chapter XVI 
Retirement
225.   The retirement of a provincial council public officer is governed by the Public and Judicial Officers (Retirement) 
ordinance, rules made under that ordinance, minutes on pensions and by the policy decisions made by the government.
226.  Subject to the provisions of the Public and Judicial Officers (Retirement) Ordinance and any policy decision of the 
government, the optional age of retirement of an officer shall be 55 years.
227.  The officer shall be granted the right to retire at his discretion after giving 03 months’ notice between the period from age 
of 55 years to the compulsory retirement age subject to the sections 228, 229 and 230 below. however, if the relevant 
Appointing Authority decides that the officer’s efficiency and condition of service is not satisfactory after the age of 57 
years or after a particular age limit approved by the Cabinet of ministers, the power to retire him shall be delegated to 
the Appointing Authority having provided the officer with 06 months’ time so as to afford him an opportunity to make 
an appeal against it.
228.  Where disciplinary proceedings are pending against an officer or such disciplinary proceedings are contemplated, the 
retirement of the officer shall be made in terms of Section 12 of the Minutes on Pensions. It shall be the duty of the 
head of the department and/ or head of the Institution to bring such matters to the notice of the Appointing Authority 
when requests for retirement of officers are made.
229.  Where the officer commits an offence warranting disciplinary action against him after his retirement has been approved 
by the Appointing Authority, the order for such retirement shall be converted from normal retirement to that of a 
retirement under Section 2.12 of the Minutes on Pensions by the Appointing Authority, when such offence is brought 
to the notice of the Appointing Authority before the effective date of retirement and shall serve or cause to be served 
a copy of such order on the officer by the Appointing Authority.
230.  Where the Appointing Authority has granted a normal retirement to a public officer on the basis that no disciplinary 
proceedings are pending or contemplated against an officer and if any pending disciplinary proceedings or contemplated 
disciplinary action is brought to the notice of the Appointing Authority after the normal retirement has been granted 
and before the effective date of retirement, the Appointing Authority shall convert the normal retirement to a retirement 
under Section 2.12 of the Minutes on Pensions and shall serve or cause to be served a copy of the order on the officer 
concerned.

<!-- page 31 -->

31A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
231. In order to pay the pension without delay to an officer following his retirement, it shall be the duty of the Administrative 
Authority and the head of the department or the head of the Institution, at least nine months before the optional age 
of retirement, to ensure that the personal file and history sheet of the officer is complete, accurate and updated and 
maintained in such manner until the officer reaches his date of retirement.
232.  Where an officer retires from the provincial council public service, the respective Appointing Authority or Administrative 
Authority or head of the department or head of the Institution shall forward to the director General of pensions, all 
documents required to pay his pension at least three months before the date of his retirement.
 
Chapter XVII 
Procedure Governing Promotions  
General Procedure 
233.  every promotion in the provincial Council public service shall be made only in accordance with the approved service 
minute or scheme of recruitment by the hon. Governor.
234.     It shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to promote public officers in compliance with the provisions 
of the service minutes or schemes of recruitment approved by the hon. Governor within the prescribed periods.
235.  before making a promotion, it shall be the responsibility of the Appointing Authority to satisfy himself that a vacancy 
in the approved cadre exists in all promotions except in the case of a grade to grade promotion made irrespective of 
the vacant positions where an officer has acquired all the necessary qualifications.
236  An officer shall earn his promotion by achieving satisfactory service and fulfilling other qualifications as prescribed in 
the service minute or the scheme of recruitment, as the case may be.
 I.  Where an officer has not been granted his due annual salary increments for legitimate reasons, the period during 
which the increment had been suspended or reduced or stopped or deferred and where an officer has been 
found guilty of an offence punishable under First Schedule of offences set out in the North Western Provincial 
Disciplinary Procedures, a period of three years from the date committing the offence and where an officer 
has been found guilty of an offence falling under Second Schedule of offences set out in the North Western 
Provincial Disciplinary Procedures, a period of one year from the date committing  the offence, shall be 
excluded in computing his period of satisfactory service.
 II.  It should be considered ineligible to recruit an officer under limited and merit (service experience) streams 
or for grade promotion made on the number of vacancies as per the schemes of recruitment and service 
Minutes on whom a disciplinary punishment has been imposed for an offence set out under the First Schedule 
of Offences of Chapter XLVIII of the Establishments Code or the North Western Provincial Disciplinary 
Procedures, an officer on whom a disciplinary punishment has been imposed for an offence set out under 
the Second Schedule of Offences of Chapter XLVIII of the Establishments Code or the North Western 
Provincial Disciplinary Procedures and an officer on whom a disciplinary punishment has been imposed 
for an offence under Section 25.2 of Chapter XLVIII of the Establishments Code  or under Section 22.2 of 
the North Western provincial disciplinary procedures, following the summary disciplinary procedure for 
a period of five (05) years, two (02) years and one (01) year respectively from the date of committing the 
offence by the officer concerned.
237.  In counting the period of service for a promotion in the provincial council public service, only the period of active 
service in the officer’s respective service, class or grade should be taken into account.
238.  It shall be the duty of the Appointing Authority or the Administrative Authority to conduct the relevant examinations, 
professional tests, interviews etc. on the due dates in order to provide the officers in the North Western Provincial 
Council with an opportunity to acquire qualifications necessary for promotion.

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
32A
239.  Notwithstanding the provisions contained in sections 35, 36 and 37 of Chapter III, where the Appointing Authority makes 
a decision to promote an officer in a service from one grade to another after the due date and whereupon the Appointing 
Authority considers that the relevant officer in the provincial council public service is in no way responsible for such 
delay in the decision regarding his promotion, the Appointing Authority shall take action to grant such promotion with 
effect from the due date. Before the decision, the Appointing Authority shall satisfy himself that the officer has fulfilled 
all the requirements for his promotion by that due date, (irrespective of the fact that the officer is no longer in service 
or retired or deceased).
240.  however, where a promotion is made on the results of a written examination and/ or an interview or based on vacancies, 
such promotion shall come into force to be effective as from the date on which the officer concerned had fulfilled such 
qualifications.
241.  Where marks are allocated to an officer during examinations, professional tests and interviews for evaluating eligibility 
conducted in accordance with the approved service minute or the scheme of recruitment, the approved marking 
scheme shall be included in the advertisement calling applications for such promotions or shall be made known before 
holding the interviews.
242.  Where an internal promotion is made to a post on the basis of seniority and merit, the date of promotion to the post 
shall be clearly stated in the advertisement calling for applications. If the relevant service minute or the scheme of 
promotion or recruitment unless otherwise provided for, the date of promotion shall be decided taking into consideration 
the following facts.
 I.  Availability of financial provisions to fill the vacancy;
 II.  The need to fill the vacancy;
 III.  the need to minimize the payment of arrears of salary.
  When the date of promotion and the closing date for applications stated in the advertisement are two different dates, 
the applicants should fulfil the required qualifications as at the date of promotion and the criteria of their seniority and 
merit should be assessed at the relevant interviews for evaluating eligibility based on the date of promotion.
243.  the provisions in Chapter VII on “procedure to be followed in recruitments and the Appointments” in these procedural 
rules shall be applied, as appropriate with regard to the promotions as well.
Chapter XVIII 
Transfers
General
244.  Every officer in the North West Provincial Council public service and every officer absorbed into the North West 
provincial Council is subject to transfers. transfers can only be made by the hon. Governor or the North Western 
provincial Council public service Commission or delegated authorities.
245.  Transfer should not be done as a matter of custom. A transfer shall be effected only on the ground mentioned in Section 
246 below.
246.  t ransfers are fourfold as indicated below
 I.  t ransfers made annually;
 II.  t ransfers made upon the exigencies of service;
 III.  t ransfers made on disciplinary grounds;
 IV .  Non annual transfers upon the requests made by the officers.

<!-- page 33 -->

33A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
247.  An officer is transferred to achieve all or several or any one of the following objectives.
 I.  to fill a vacancy in an institution;
 II.  to meet the administrative requirements of an institution;
 III.  to promote the efficiency and productivity of an institution;
 IV .  to facilitate a disciplinary action in progress or contemplated;
 V .  to implement a disciplinary order;
 VI.  to provide the officer with an opportunity to gain experience in a wider field;
 VII.  to provide the officer with an opportunity for career development and to improve his skills;
 VIII. to provide relief for personal difficulties experienced by an officer.
248.  It shall be a responsibility of the head of the Institution/ head of the department/ secretary to the provincial ministry 
to formally release an officer under a transfer order from his present duty station so as to enable him to report for duty 
to his new station with effect from the prescribed date.
Annual Transfers
249.  Internal attachment within a ministry or a department or an institution in the provincial Council that does not involve 
a change of duty station shall not fall within the meaning of annual transfers.
250. Annual transfer Committee 
 I.  the authority with delegated power shall before the 1st of June each year constitute Annual transfer Committees 
within ministries and departments to seek proposals on annual transfers.
 II.  The authority with delegated power shall set up separate Annual Transfer Committees for the public officers 
in each service or category in a ministry or department in the North Western provincial Council public 
Service where the number of such officers in each service or category exceeds 25. However, an authority 
with delegated power may under special circumstances and at his discretion, appoint an Annual transfer 
Committee in a Ministry or Department even where the number of officers is less than 25.
 III.  the composition of an Annual transfer Committee of a ministry or department shall be as follows.
 i. A relevant deputy head or an Assistant head of the relevant ministry or the department or in the 
absence of such a post the senior most Staff Officer of the relevant Ministry or Department;
 ii.  A senior officer in charge of establishments matters in the relevant Ministry or Department;
 iii.  one representative of either
 (a) A representative nominated by each trade union falling under the provisions of Chapter XXV 
of the Establishment Code with a representation of at least 15% of the officers of the Provincial 
Council Public Service belonging to the officers categories  and services falling under the purview 
of the Annual transfer Committee.
      (b) Each Trade Union of which an officer has been released for full time for Trade Union work.
 IV .  The Annual Transfer Committees in respect of the officers authorized to be transferred by the North Western 
provincial Chief secretary shall be established by the North Western provincial Chief secretary as follows.
 i. A deputy Chief secretary or Assistant Chief secretary. 
 ii.   A Senior Staff Officer in another Ministry or a Department. 
 iii. A representative nominated by each trade union falling under the provisions of Chapter XXV of the 
Establishment Code with a representation of at least 15% of the officers of the Provincial Council 
Public Service belonging to the officers categories  and services falling under the purview of the Annual 
transfer Committee.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
34A
 V.  Where there is a grave disparity in the opportunities to serve in the popular work stations between the departments 
under a particular Ministry, a transfer committee should be set up in such Ministry to effect transfers of 
officers between the Departments of same Ministry with a view to providing services to officers.
 VI.  Following instances shall not include the scope of an Annual transfer Committee.
 i.  Internal attachment made in an institution in a manner that does not involve a change of duty station;
 ii.  transfers made by a disciplinary order or on the exigency of a disciplinary action;
 iii.  transfers made on the exigencies of service;
 iv.  Non annual transfers made on the requests of officers.
251.  Annual Transfer Procedure
 I.   the authority with delegated power shall, in accordance with the policy of the government and the special 
needs of a relevant ministry or department and in consideration of the conditions in the service minutes or 
schemes of recruitment of the respective services and posts, prepare the policies and procedures on annual 
transfers of such ministry or department and forward to the hon. Governor for approval.
 II.   Annual Transfers shall be effected in terms of approved Schemes of transfer.
 III. When preparing the schemes of Annual transfers, the authority with delegated power shall take the following 
matters into consideration.
 i. Grading of duty stations into categories such as unpopular, popular and highly popular based on the 
geographical location of such duty stations, approved financial benefits, other perks and privileges and 
the number of transfer requests received.
 ii. The minimum period an officer should serve in a particular duty station to be eligible for applying 
annual transfers.
 iii. The maximum period an officer is allowed to serve in a particular duty station.
 iv. Matters based on which an officer may make an application of annual transfers
 v. To provide an opportunity for an officer to improve his knowledge and skills in an extensive field.
 vi. To prevent the attempts by officers to remain continuously in the same area obtaining transfers between 
the duty stations located geographically within one and the same area.
 vii.  the scheme of transfers approved by the hon. Governor as well as any amendments made by the 
Hon.Governor at a later stage should be brought to the notice of all relevant officers.
252.  Calling Applications for Annual Transfers
 I.   the authority with delegated power may before the 31
st  of August every year issue the notice calling for 
applications for annual transfers from officers. He should state in the notice that the applications for annual 
transfers should be submitted to him on or before the 30
th  of september.
 II.   the authority with delegated power shall take steps to hand over the annual transfer applications received by 
him to the relevant Annual transfer Committee before the 10 th  of october.
 III. Annual transfer Committee shall consider only the application submitted in accordance with the relevant 
scheme of t ransfer.
 253. Publishing the Proposed Annual Transfer Orders
 I.     When proposals the made by the Annual transfer Committee, the Committee  shall take into consideration 
the scheme of Annual transfer approved by the hon. Governor, the provisions in this Chapter and policies 
of the government related to transfers.

<!-- page 35 -->

35A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 II.     the Annual transfer Committee may submit its proposals in writing to the authority with the delegated 
power before the 31st of october every year. It shall be the duty of each Annual transfer Committee to duly 
record the reasons for its recommendations.
 III.   the authority with delegated power shall take action to approve and publish the notice on the proposed 
annual transfers before the 15th of November every year.
 IV .   The notice shall contain the last date on which any clarification should be made to the authority with delegated 
power by any officer who is dissatisfied with such transfer order. Provided however, the maximum period 
for such clarification shall not exceed 14 days inclusive of holidays.
 V .   An officer who wishes to make clarifications regarding the proposed annual transfer order relating to him 
should make such clarifications in the format of Appendix 15 to the authority with delegated power through 
the head of the Institution or the head of the department to reach him on or before the date given in the 
said notice
VI.   The officer may submit a copy of his clarification direct to the delegated authority, if he so wishes. It shall 
be the responsibility of the relevant secretary to the ministry or head of the department or the head of the 
Institution, as the case may be, to refer such written clarifications submitted to him by the relevant officers 
to the authority with delegated power to reach him on or before the date specified in the Annual Transfer 
Notice.
254.  Annual Transfer Proposals Review Committee
 I. the authority with delegated power shall appoint an Annual transfer proposals review Committee before 
the 15th of September to review the proposals of the annual transfers based on the clarifications made in 
terms of sub section V of section 253 above.
 II.   The Annual Transfer Proposals Review Committee shall consist of an officer served in an annual transfer 
committee and an executive level officer nominated by the Head of the Department and the executive level 
officers nominated by the authority with delegated power. However, the maximum number of members shall 
not exceed five.  
 III.    the Annual transfer proposals review Committee may take steps to submit its written recommendations 
on the proposed annual transfers to the authority with delegated power on or before the 15th of october. It 
shall be the duty of the Annual transfer proposals review Committee to indicate in their report the reasons 
for its recommendations.
 IV . In making its recommendations in accordance with sub section III above, they shall take into consideration 
the Annual transfer schemes approved by the hon. Governor and the provisions set out in this Chapter and 
the policies of the government.
 V . A clarification made in accordance with Sub section V of section 253 above will be entertained only on the 
grounds that a proposed transfer violates the scheme of transfers of the transfer board or that the circumstances 
have so changed as to justify a variation of the original transfer order or that the transfer concerned may 
cause very grave personal hardships of exceptional nature.
255.  Issuing Annual Transfer Orders
 I. the authority with delegated power shall issue annual transfer orders taking into consideration the proposals 
of the Annual transfer Committee and the recommendations of the Annual transfer proposals review 
Committee.

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
36A
 II.     All annual transfers should be made effective from the 1st of March. It shall be the duty of the authority with 
delegated power to ensure the issuance of the annual transfer orders before at least a period of two months 
prior to that effective date of annual transfer, i.e., before the 1st of January each year.
256. The procedure for making appeals to the Public Service Commission against the decisions on Annual Transfers
 I. If any appeal is made by a public officer aggrieved by an order made by the authority with delegated power 
to the public service Commission against an order made on an annual transfer, such appeal shall strictly 
be made in accordance with the format of Appendix 16 hereof together with related certified copies of all 
supporting documents.
 II. An officer shall make an appeal to the Public Service Commission only through the respective Head of the 
Institution, head of the department and secretary to the ministry and / or the authority with delegated power, 
as the case may be.
 III.  However, such officer may send an advance copy of appeal directly to the Secretary of the Public Service 
Commission.
 IV . An appeal made against an order of annual transfer should be forwarded within 14 days from the date on 
which such transfer order was made public. Appeals which are not received within the prescribed period 
will be rejected by the public service Commission.
 V . respective head of the Institution, head of the department and secretary to the ministry and the authority 
with delegated power shall take action to refer to the Public Service Commission such appeal with all files, 
documents, reports etc., his observations on the appeals with Appendices 16 and 17 hereof inclusive of 
recommendations relating to the appeal made by an officer to be sent to the Public Service Commission 
before the 15th of November.
 VI. the public service Commission shall make a decision on appeals within 15 days of the receipt of such an 
appeal.
257.  Implementation of Annual Transfer Orders
 I.   the secretary of the ministry, the head of the department or the head of the Institution shall release a public 
officer on annual transfer order, well in advance from his present duty station so that he may assume duties 
at his new station on the due date. Likewise, it shall be the responsibility of the officer on transfer order to 
report for duty at his new station on the due date as prescribed.
 II.    It shall be the duty of the disciplinary authorities to take disciplinary action against officers who do not make 
arrangements to formally release an officer on an annual transfer order from his present duty station so as 
to enable him to assume duties in the new station on the due date.
 III.   the secretary of the ministry, head of the department or the head of the Institution shall take action to 
make temporary internal arrangements to cover up the duties of an officer on annual transfer order without 
waiting for the arrival of his successor to release the officer.
 IV .    the secretary to the ministry, the head of the department or the head of the Institution shall, when an 
officer in his staff receives an annual transfer order, forthwith make arrangements to take charge of the files, 
documents, other properties owned by the government or provincial council, keys, computer passwords and 
official identity card under his custody before the effective date of such transfer order. Likewise, it shall be 
the duty of the officer on annual transfer order to make arrangements, in consultation with his head, to duly 
hand over all the items that are in his custody.
 V .    An officer who does not duly report for duty at his new duty station despite the fact that he had been released 
from his former duty station shall be deemed as having vacated his post on his own accord and it shall be 

<!-- page 37 -->

37A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
the duty of the new secretary of the ministry, head of the department or the head of the Institution, as the 
case may be, to take action in terms of Chapter XV of these procedural rules.
 VI.  the secretary of the ministry, head of the department or head of the Institution shall, in order to enable 
the head of the new duty station to take action as stated in sub section (V) above, see to issuing the letter 
releasing the officer on transfer order from his present duty station in the format of Appendix 18 in a manner 
that includes the necessary information of him. A copy of such release letter shall be sent to the head of the 
new duty station.
Transfers made on exigency of service 
258.  An officer may be transferred on exigencies of service by the Appointing Authority or the authority with delegated 
power for any one of the following reasons.
 I. Where the service of an officer is no longer needed by his present duty station;
 II.    Where an officer is needed for service in another duty station or where the service of the relevant officer 
himself is needed;
 III.   Where an officer is not suitable to be further employed in his present station due to administrative reasons.
259.  Before an officer is transferred on exigencies of service, the Appointing Authority or the authority with delegated power 
shall satisfy himself that a need has actually arisen as set out in section 258 above and that the transfer concerned 
cannot be deferred till the next annual transfers.
260.  Depending on the nature of the exigencies of service, the authority with delegated power may transfer an officer even 
on short notice.
261.  The authority with delegated power shall record in the relevant file clearly all the facts that led to the transfer of an 
officer on exigencies of service.  
262.  Furthermore, the authority with delegated power shall clearly state such facts in the letter of transfer issued to the officer 
concerned.
Transfers on Disciplinary Grounds
263.  The Disciplinary Authority or the authority with delegated power may transfer an officer on disciplinary grounds in 
the following instances even without prior notice.
 I. Where a disciplinary order has been made with a transfer as punishment consequent upon the formal 
disciplinary inquiry held against the officer concerned;
 II.     Where an officer is not interdicted considering the findings of a preliminary investigation, but that officer is 
not allowed to serve in his present duty station;
 III.  Where it is found on matters revealed either before the beginning, or in the course of a preliminary investigation 
or on existing circumstances that the continued retention of a public officer in service in his post or at his 
present duty station may obstruct the conduct of a preliminary investigation.
264.  The Disciplinary Authority or the authority with delegated power shall state in the letter of transfer issued to the officer 
who is transferred as per section 263 above, under which sub section of section 263 above he is transferred. however, 
if requested by the said officer, the officer shall be given the reasons for the transfer, in writing.
265.  Where it is established at the end of preliminary investigation that there is no basis as to furnish a charge sheet against 
the officer concerned or where he is exonerated from all the charges following a formal disciplinary inquiry, the officer 
concerned may make an appeal to his disciplinary Authority or the authority with delegated power against a transfer 
made on him under II and III of section 263 above.

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
38A
266.  A disciplinary Authority or the authority with delegated power upon receiving an appeal as described in section 265 
above shall, in consideration of the facts stated in such appeal and in Section III of 258 above, inform the officer 
concerned of the decision made on such appeal within 02 months of the receipt of it.
Procedure to be followed in respect of appeals made to the Public Service Commission against transfer orders on 
exigencies of service and disciplinary grounds
267.  Any public officer aggrieved by an order relating to a transfer made by an authority with delegated power on exigencies 
of service or upon disciplinary grounds may, in terms of the Chapter XX of these rules, appeal to the Commission 
against such decision in the format of Appendix 19.
Non annual transfers on request made by the public officers
268.  The authority with delegated power over transfers may consider a special request of transfer made by an officer on the 
following grounds that were not taken into consideration under annual transfers.
 I. special requests made on medical grounds
 II.   requests made on personal problems faced with in consequence of unforeseen circumstances;
 III.    requests made to meet requirements set out in service minutes and schemes of recruitment.
269.  Every possible effort should be made by the authority with delegated power over transfers to attend to annual transfer 
requests made owing to the reasons stated in section 268 above. the authority with delegated power shall, on ascertaining 
the fact that it is not possible to delay the request of transfer preferred by an officer until the time of the next annual 
transfers taking place, consider only such requests under this situation after having obtained the information concerning 
it.
270.  Any transfer made on the requests preferred under Section 268 above shall not adversely affect the annual transfers and 
it shall not be prejudicial to the privileges and entitlements of any officer subject to transfer under annual transfers.
271.  Any transfer made under Section 268 above shall not affect a transfer effected on an officer owing to disciplinary 
grounds.
Transfers of Trade Union Officers
272.  Key office bearers of the parent organization of a union should be posted to stations where their services are required 
for the work of the union and will not be liable to transfer under the normal transfer rules. The final decision of transfer 
made within the province should be made by the Chief secretary.
273.  The designations of the office bearers of union and the union to whom this concession should be granted and the station 
to which such office bearers should be posted will be determined by the competent authority (as defined in Section 
277) in consultation with the union concerned.
274.  An officer posted to a station under Section 272 above will be liable to transfer under the normal rules on his ceasing 
to hold the office which entitled him to the concession or on promotion to a higher post, class or grade.
275.  the grant of this concession should, at all times, be subject to the exigencies of the service and to disciplinary 
requirements.
276.  A union which is entitled to this concession and contemplating to avail itself of such concession, shall make an application 
to the competent authority stating the following facts.
 I. the names of the officers for whom this concession is requested;
 II. the station to which each of such officers should be appointed and the current membership of the union.

<!-- page 39 -->

39A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
277.  the competent authority for each union means- 
 
  for a union of officers of a Combined Service is the Chief Secretary; a union, the membership of which is confined to 
officers of a single Department is the Head of that Provincial Department; the membership of which is not limited only 
to officers of a single Department is the Chief Secretary.
Steps to be taken following the implementation of Transfers
278.   It shall be the responsibility of the head of his previous workstation to duly send the following documents regarding 
the officer to his new Head of the duty station within two weeks of the transfer of the officer.
 I. Updated personal file with the updated history sheet;
 II.  Written recommendation regarding the payment of the officer’s next salary increment for the period from 
the date of his last increment up to the date of the implementation of his transfer;
 III. Performance Appraisal Report of the officer;
 IV .  Leave particulars of the officer;
 V . Statement on holiday railway warrants obtained by the officer;
 VI. Salary particulars of the officer;
 VII. Credit Balance Statement of the officer;
VIII. A certificate to show that the Widows’/ Widowers’ and Orphans contributions have been continuously 
recovered from the salary of the officer for the period during which he served in the institution.
IX.  Report on Academic courses, workshops and various seminars at which the officer has participated.
X.  Other important documents relating to the officer. 
Chapter XIX 
Procedure on Appeals against decisions on Transfers other than the annual transfers and Promotions
279. In terms of Section 32 of Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987, any public officer aggrieved by an order of promotion 
or transfer made by an authority with delegated power may appeal to the Commission against such order. If any officer 
aggrieved by any decision, such officer may appeal to the Hon. Governor. 
280.  An appeal made by an officer with regard to a promotion or transfer other than an annual transfer shall be made in the 
format of Appendices 19 or 20. He shall also submit certified copies of relevant documents in support of his appeal.
281.  An officer shall submit an appeal to the Hon. Governor or the Commission through the authority with delegated power 
and the copies of such appeal shall also be submitted to the secretary to the respective ministry, the head of the 
department, and the head of the Institution. It shall be the duty of the authority with delegated power to submit the 
appeals referred to him without delay to the Hon. Governor or the Commission with his observations. The officer, if 
he so desires, may submit an advance copy of the appeal directly to the Authority of Appeal.
282.  A retired officer making an appeal relating to a promotion due during the period he was in the provincial  council public 
service on which a decision has been made by the authority with delegated power after his retirement, shall submit such 
appeal within 30 days of the receipt of such decision directly to the Commission. however, he shall send the copy of 
the appeal also to his former head of the department or head of the Institution.
283.  An appeal against an order relating to a promotion made by an authority with delegated power shall be made within 
30 days of making the decision. An appeal against an order relating to a transfer made by an authority with delegated 
power shall be made within 14 days of the receipt of the transfer order by the officer concerned.

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
40A
284.  the respective h ead of the Institution, h ead of the d epartment, Appointing Authority and s ecretary to the m inistry shall 
ensure that an appeal submitted by an officer for referring to the Commission is delivered to it within 15 days of the 
receipt of the appeal together with all relevant files, documents and reports and his observations and recommendations 
related thereto.
285.  It is the responsibility of every officer including a retired officer to submit his appeal in compliance with the requirements 
in this Chapter and any appeal that does not conform to such requirements will not be considered by the Commission.
286.  The Commission shall send its decision regarding an appeal submitted as aforesaid directly to the officer with copies 
to the authority with delegated power, the head of the department and the head of the Institution, as the case may be.
287.  An officer aggrieved by an order or decision made by the Commission has right to submit an appeal to the Hon. Governor.
Chapter XX 
Preparation of Registers and Reports on provincial council public officers
288.  every authority with delegated power, Administrative Authority, shall maintain and regularly update the following 
registers according to the Appendices stated below containing information on officers under their purview.
serial 
No.
Appendix 
No. registers to be maintained
I. 21 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
the appointments and promotions of the public officers.
II. 22 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
the public officers dismissed from service.
III. 23 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
the public officers who have resigned from service
I V. 24 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
the public officers who have vacated the post
V. 25 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
the public officers under interdiction and those on compulsory leave 
VI. 26 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
retired public officers
VII. 27 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
public officers retired due to general inefficiency
VIII. 28 register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of 
public officers retired as a merciful alternative instead of dismissal from service
IX. 29 Biannual report on changes in staff furnished by the authority with delegated 
power to the public s ervice Commission (submission of statistical data relating 
to public officers biannually to the Commission)
X. 30 Register to be maintained on the entire staff in every government office/ 
institution
XI. 31 Register to be maintained on the officers released permanently or temporarily
289.  the authority with delegated power, the head of the department or the head of the Institution shall, as the case may 
be, forward biannually a summary of statistical data contained in the registers maintained as set out in section 288 
above to the Chief secretary in the format of Appendix 29. 
290.   every head of ministry/ department/ Institution shall maintain and regularly update a register relating to the entire 
staff employed in each government office in the format of Appendix 30.

<!-- page 41 -->

41A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Chapter XXI 
Channel of Communication  
291.   every authority with delegated power may communicate with the Commission on matters relating to his powers through 
his secretary to the ministry.
292.   Unless otherwise provided for in these Procedural Rules, the public officers shall in all instances correspond with the 
Commission only through the respective head of the Institution, head of the department and secretary to the ministry.
293.  Correspondence with the Commission shall be only through the secretary to the Commission.
Chapter XXII 
Definitions
294. unless the context otherwise requires, in these procedural rules
 I.    “Constitution” means the Constitution of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka
 II.     “the hon. Governor” means the hon. Governor in the North Western province.  
 III.    “Citizen” means a citizen of Sri Lanka as defined in the Constitution.
 IV .    “provincial Council” means the North Western provincial Council. 
 V .    “province” means a North Western province. 
 VI.    “ Commission” means the North West Council public service Commission established under section 33 (1) of 
the provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
 VII.    “Authority with delegated power” means the authority  specified under Section 32 of the Provincial Council 
Act, No. 42 of 1987 and the provincial Council (Amendment) Act, No. 28 of 1990, on whom, the powers 
vested in the hon. Governor under section 32/(1) of the provincial Council Act, have been delegated. 
 VIII.   “Chief secretary” means the Chief secretary of the North Western provincial Council appointed by the 
president.
 IX.  “secretary to the ministry” means a secretary to a ministry of the North-West provincial Council, the secretary 
to the hon. Governor of the North-West provincial Council, and the secretary of the North-West provincial 
Council public service Commission.
 X.   “head of department” means the heads of departments of the North Western provincial Council and the 
municipal Commissioner and the Chief secretary as the case may be, the secretary to the hon. Governor of 
the North Western province, the secretary of the public service Commission of the North Western provincial 
Council, the secretaries of the ministries of the provincial Council and the secretary of the North Western 
provincial Council also means the heads of the department.       
           
 XI.   “Appointing Authority” means the Commission or delegated authority empowered by the provincial Councils 
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1987 to appoint an officer in the North West Provincial Council Public Service.
 XII.    “disciplinary Authority” means the North Western provincial Council public service Commission or an 
authority with delegated powers of disciplinary control of officers or dismissal of officers from service.

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
42A
 XIII.    “Administrative Authority” means an officer in the North Western Provincial Public Council Service who 
has been duly designated to carry out administrative functions in an institute of the North Western provincial 
Council.
 XIV .    “Permanent Officer” means an officer appointed by the Appointing Authority on permanent basis to a post in 
the approved cadre in accordance with the approved service minute or the approved scheme of recruitment 
subject to the period of probation or acting or the conditions thereof with or without pension rights.
 XV .   “Staff Officer” means an officer of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service who is defined as 
a staff officer by Section 11 of Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 or who is defined as staff officer 
by circulars issued by the ministry of public Administration from time to time.
 XVI.   “Officer” means an officer employed in the North Western Provincial Council Public Service.
 XVII.   “Field officer” means an official in the North Western provincial public service who is mainly assigned to 
the work sites, who is not limited to one particular place, who must go to the field regularly, who is required 
to carry out inspections and visits, who is involved in the field duties according to the nature of the duties 
and whose responsibilities are not limited to one specific place or office.
 XVIII. “Substitute Appointee” means a person employed to perform the duties of a post which has been filled on 
permanent basis but whose holder is absent from the post for a limited period.
 XIX.  “Casual Appointee” means a person appointed to a post approved as a casual post on daily paid basis for a 
short period on casual basis.
 XX. “Temporary Officer” means a person appointed as such to a post approved as a temporary post.
 XXI. “Ex-serviceman” means an officer or a person of any other rank who has honorably left an armed service by 
retirement or on being completed his period of service other than on disciplinary grounds.
 XXII. “All Island Services” mean services already identified as All Island Services by the Cabinet of Ministers 
namely, the Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri 
Lanka Architects service, sri Lanka Accountants service, sri Lanka planning service, sri Lanka education 
Administrative service, sri Lanka Agriculture service, sri Lanka Animal production and health service, 
sri Lanka medical service, sri Lanka Indigenous medical service and the sri Lanka surveyors service and 
any other service being so identified from time to time as belonging to the All Island Services.
 XXIII.  “Combined Service” means the North Western Provincial Management Service Officers Service, Librarians 
Service, Translators Service, Drivers Service, Office Employees Service, Information Technology Service, 
Development Officers Service and any other service being identified from time to time as belonging to the 
Combined service.
XXIV .  “scheme of recruitment” means a formal scheme approved by the hon. Governor in the North Western 
Province for the recruitment or promotion of officers to a particular post, class or grade in the North Western 
provincial Council public service and matters incidental thereto.
 XXV . “s ervice minute” means a service minute duly approved by the hon. Governor in the North Western province 
and in respect of which the hon. Governor in the North Western province has granted approval for matters 
of policy for the appointment and promotion of officers to a particular class, grade or post of a service and 
matters incidental thereto and published in the Gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka.
XXVI. “Appointment” means the conferment of any paid office in the provincial public service, whether or not subject 
to confirmation, to a person not already in the provincial public service or an appointment or promotion with 
or without an increase of salary or any change in status of a person already in the provincial public service.

<!-- page 43 -->

43A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 XXVII. “promotion” means the appointment in accordance with an approved service minute or a scheme of 
Recruitment, as the case may be, of an officer holding a post in the provincial public service to a post, class 
or grade which is superior to the post he holds or the class or grade to which he belongs with or without a 
period of probation.
 XXVIII.  “Period of Satisfactory Service” means a period of service during which an officer has earned all salary 
increments due to have been earned by him during the prescribed period by discharging duties efficiently 
and diligently, passing over the efficiency bars required to have been passed and fulfilling the qualifications 
necessary for the confirmation in appointment required to have been completed and has not committed a 
punishable offence. However, where a decision has been made to reckon a period of no pay leave granted on 
a policy decision of the government as a period of satisfactory service, such period should also be considered 
as a period of satisfactory service.
 XXIX. “Good Conduct” means the proper conduct of an officer during and outside of his duty hours without indulging 
in an act connected to any disciplinary or criminal offence.
 XXX.   “Period of Active Service” means the period of service during which an officer was actually engaged in 
duties whilst drawing his salary. The periods of no pay leave as being specified as a period of active service 
as a policy and the period for which as officer has been released or sent on secondment to a post outside 
the provincial public service on the need of the government other than on the officer’s own instance will 
be considered as a period of active service. However, where an officer under interdiction or on compulsory 
leave is acquitted and exonerated from all the charges after the formal disciplinary inquiry or the judicial 
process, such period under interdiction or on compulsory leave will be reckoned for the purpose of the 
period of active service. Likewise, in the computation of the period of active service in a specific service, 
the officer’s engagement in duties of such post and his receiving the salary of such post should be considered 
as the period of active service of such post.
 XXXI. “Period of Continuous Service” means the period of service during which an officer was actually served 
continuously whilst drawing his salary. A period of duly approved salaried or no pay leave granted on a 
policy decision of the government will be reckoned in the period of continuous service. Likewise, in the 
computation of the period of continuous service in a specific post, the period of service the officer has actually 
engaged in the duties of such post drawing the salary applicable to it should be considered as the period of 
continuous service of such post.
 XXXII.   “Transfer” means the transferring of an officer of the  provincial council public service from one duty station 
or institution to another duty station or institution by the hon. Governor in the North Western province  or 
the authority with delegated power at their discretion or on disciplinary grounds or on the proposal of an 
Annual transfer Committee / on the recommendations of an Annual transfer proposals review Committee 
or on the request of the officer or on exigencies of service or on the appointment of the officer to another 
post as a result of promotion.
 XXXIII.    “Appointment on Contract basis” means an appointment of a person to a post in the North Western provincial 
Council public service with specific conditions for a specific period of time.
 XXXIV .   “Reinstatement” means the restoration to public office of a person who had been interdicted or dismissed 
from service or whose appointment has been terminated or who has been deemed as having vacated his post 
in the North Western provincial public service.
 XXXV .   “superior post” means a post that has at least the same initial salary and the same incremental rate of and a 
higher maximum salary than the post with which it is compared. A post which has a fixed salary higher than 
or equal to the maximum salary of the post with which it is compared is also a superior post.
 XXXVI.    “Comparable post” means a post which has at least the same incremental rate and a maximum salary not 
less than that of the post with which it is compared. 

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
44A
 XXXVII.  “Inferior post” means a post which has a lower initial salary, a lower incremental rate and lower maximum 
salary, or any two of them lower than those of the post with which it is compared. 
 XXXVIII.   “public Corporation” means any Corporation, board or any other body which was or is established by or 
under any written law other than the Companies Act with funds or capital wholly or partly provided by the 
government by way of grant, loan or otherwise.
 XXXIX. “Authority” means an institute which have been established or to be established under a statute passed by 
the North Western provincial Council. 
 XL. “Documents” include all files, letters, documents, statements, reports, publications, books and computer 
passwords, computerized data and information.
XLI.   unless the context otherwise requires, words of masculine gender also mean words of feminine gender.
XLII.   unless the context otherwise requires, singular words also include their plural sense.
295. Action to be taken in the event of any inconsistency between the texts.
  In the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between the sinhala, tamil and english texts of these procedural 
rules, the sinhala text shall prevail.
296. enforcement of the rules.
  These rules shall come into force with effect from the date on which the Hon. Governor grants the approval of His 
excellency. All orders made and all steps taken in respect of appointments, promotions and transfers, all orders made, 
directions given, proceedings taken, transfers or retirements and releases made, all things done or pending under 
provisions in force on the immediately preceding the date of commencement of these rules, shall be deemed to have 
been made under these rules and shall continue in force. Furthermore, they shall be treated as have been made, issued, 
given or done under these rules and shall remain in force mutatis mutandis. 
  the existing procedural rules shall be rescinded from the date on which these rules come into force without prejudice 
to any decision or action made thereunder.

<!-- page 45 -->

45A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
List of Appendices
No.                        Appendix 
01.    Format of standard of service minute 
02.      Format of standard scheme of recruitment 
03.      Letter of Appointment on permanent basis 
04.      Letter of Appointment on contract basis 
05.      Letter accepting or rejecting the Appointment 
06.      Letter confirming the reporting for duty 
07. Letter of termination of the appointment of an officer whose appointment was not confirmed after the period of 
probation.
08.         Annual Review Report to be submitted with regard to the public officers during the period of probation 
09.      Letter of reversion to the former post of an officer whose appointment was not confirmed after period of probation 
of one year 
10. Letter of informing the confirmation in the appointment
11. Letter of informing the passing over the Efficiency Bar 
12. Request for permanent/ temporary release from public service by a public officer.
13.  Request for permanent/ temporary release of a public officer from the post presently held by him/her by a Secretary  
 to the ministry on the exigency of the government
14.        Notice of Vacation of post
15.        Presenting facts by a public officer on the proposed annual transfer 
16.  Format informing the particulars of the Appellant when appeals are made to the Commission on annual transfer  
 decisions 
17.     Format informing of the particulars of the successor when appeals are made to the Commission on annual transfer 
decisions’
18. Letter of release from service as per annual transfer order.
19.  Format of appeal against non-annual transfers submitted to the Commission
20. Format of appeal in respect of promotions submitted to the Commission’
21. Register of appointments and promotions of public officers to be maintained by the authority with delegated power.
22. Register of public officers dismissed from service to be maintained by the authority with delegated power.
23. Register of public officers who have resigned from service to be maintained by the authority with delegated power.
24. Register of public officers who have vacated the post to be maintained by the authority with delegated power
25. Register of public officers under interdiction and those sent on compulsory leave to be maintained by the authority 
with delegated power.
26. Register of retired public officers to be maintained by the authority with delegated power. 
27.     Register of public officers retired for general inefficiency to be maintained by the authority with delegated power.
28. Register of public officers retired as a merciful alternative to dismissal from service maintained by the authority 
with delegated power.
29. Biannual report on changes in staff furnished by the authority with delegated power to the Public Service Commission 
(Submission of statistical data relating to public officers biannually to the Commission).
30.     Register to be maintained on the entire staff in every government office/ institution
31. Register to be maintained   relating to temporarily or permanently released officers
32. Application to express preference to serve under the North West provincial Council public service

<!-- page 46 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
46A
Appendix 01 
 (Section 39 of Chapter IV)
Service Minute of............................................................
Following service minute of the................................. service is substituted without prejudice to any action taken or purported 
to have been taken in terms of the service minute of the........................... service published in the Extraordinary Gazette 
paper No. .............. dated .................. of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and the amendments made thereto 
from time to time.
 by order of the hon. Governor,
 ....................................... 
 secretary to the hon. Governor.
on………  of ……………20………
1. Effective Date 
 This Service Minute shall come into force with effect from …………………………………………………
2.     details on Appointing Authority
2.1 Appointing Authority: …………………………………………………………… 
3. Details on Categories of Services
3.1 Categories of services: …………………………………………………………… 
3.2 Grades : ………………………………………………………………………..
3.3 General definition on the role assigned: ……………………………………
4.     Nature of the post : ……………………………………………………………
5.    salaries
5.1 salary Code :………………………………………………………………… 
5.2 salary scale :………………………………………………………………… 
5.3 Grade system relating to the service Category and monthly salary step involving the grade system
Grade Initial salary step salary point
6.   posts associated with the service Categories
6.1  titles of approved posts, number of approved posts and functions assigned thereto  
titles of posts approved Number of approved posts Functions
6.2   Consolidated Number of officers: ……………………………………………… 
7.   method of recruitment
7.1 percentages of recruitment
stream percentages

<!-- page 47 -->

47A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
7.2   open recruitment
7.2.1 Grade at recruitment
7.2.2 Qualifications
7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications: …………………………………………… 
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications: ……………………………………………  
7.2.2.3 e xperience: ……………………………………………………………. 
7.2.2.4 Physical fitness: ……………………………………………………… 
7.2.2.5 o ther: ………………………………………………………………
7.2.3 Age
7.2.3.1 m inimum limit: ………………………………………………………….. 
7.2.3.2 m aximum limit: …………………………………………………………
7.2.4 m ethod of recruitment
7.2.4.1 Written examination
subjects maximum marks pass marks
7.2.4.1.1 Authority conducting the examination ……………………
7.2.4.2 p rofessional test
subjects maximum marks pass marks
7.2.4.2.1 Authority conducting the examination: ……………………
7.2.4.3 Interview for evaluating eligibility
main headings for which 
marks are awarded maximum marks minimum marks considered for 
selection
7.2.4.3.1 Officer appointing the Board of Interview for Evaluating Eligibility: ……………
7.2.4.4   General Interview
objectives to be achieved: …………………………………………
7.2.4.4.1 Authority appointing the board of General Interview: ……………………
7.2.5 method of inviting applications: …………………
7.3    Limited recruitment
7.3.1  Grade at recruitment
7.3.2  Qualifications
7.3.2.1 Educational Qualifications: ……………………………………………
 7.3.2.2 Professional Qualifications: ………………………………………….. 
7.3.2.3 e xperience: ……………………………………………………………. 

<!-- page 48 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
48A
7.3.2.4 Physical fitness: ……………………………………………………… 
7.3.2.5 other: ……………………………………………………………….
     
7.3.3.  Age
7.3.3.1 minimum limit :……………………..
7.3.3.2 maximum limit :………………………….
7.3.4 method of recruitment
7.3.4.1 Written examination
subjects maximum marks pass marks
7.3.4.1.1 Authority of conducting the examination ………………
7.3.4.2 professional t est
subjects maximum marks pass marks
7.3.4.1.1 Authority of conducting the examination ………………
7.3.4.3 Interview for evaluating eligibility
main headings for which 
marks are awarded
maximum marks minimum marks considered 
for selection
7.3.4.3.1 Authority appointing the Interview for evaluating eligibility: ……………………
7.3.4.4 General Interview
 objectives to be achieved: …………………………………………
7.3.4.4.1 Authority appointing the board of General Interview : …………………
7.3.5 method of inviting applications: ………………………………………
8. Efficiency Bars
8.1
Which of the Efficiency 
bars
Before how many years the Efficiency 
bar to be passed 
Nature of the Efficiency Bar - Written 
Examination/Professional Test/ Certificate 
Course/other
8.2 Efficiency Bars are held …… a year.
8.3 Authorities conducting Efficiency Bar examination:………………………… 

<!-- page 49 -->

49A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
9. Language Proficiency
Language Proficiency to be acquired
10. promotion to Grades
10.1 promotion from Grade III to Grade II
10.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:……………………………………..
10.1.2 method of promotion:…………………………………………
10.2 promotion from Grade II to Grade I
10.2.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:………………………………………
10.2.2 method of promotion:………………………………………….
10.3 promotion from Grade I to special Grade
10.3.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled:…………………………………….. 
10.3.2 method of promotion:…………………………………………
11. Appointments to posts
11.1 Qualifications
Post Qualifications
11.2 method of selection
Post Method of Selection
12. Definitions extraneous to the those specified in the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission : ……………
……………………………………..............................................................................................
13. option to retire: …………………………………………………………………..........
14. Absorption of officers in service to the new grade system of the reorganized service/ absorption into grade system : ....
.................................................................................................................................
15. Interim provisions: ………………………………………………………................................................
16. matters not provided for decisions on matters extraneous to provisions of this service minute will be made by the 
public service Commission. 
17. 17. other matters
17.1 This Service Minute will prevail upon the officers who are recruited or absorbed. The posts belonging to  
the ................................................. service and their grading should be in accordance with the .................... 
schedule.
17.2 Conditions in the Gazette Extraordinary No. ………… dated ………….. in relation to the procedural rules 
of the North Western provincial Council and the provisions in the establishments Code will be applicable to 
every appointment.
17.3 These officers will be subject to orders of the Hon. Governor, provisions of the Establishments Code, 
provincial Financial regulations and rules and / or regulations enacted by the government from time to time.
17.4 In the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, tamil and english texts of these procedural   rules, 
the sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 50 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
50A
17.5  the approval of the hon. Governor in the North Western province has been granted for this service minute 
on the date of ……………………… 
17.6 A policy clearance of the Cabinet of ministers for this service minute of the .................................. service 
was obtained through the Cabinet decision No. ............ dated .................... of the secretary to the Cabinet.
18. If there is any matter that is not provided for in this service minute, the hon. Governor of the North West province 
shall consult the public service Commission of the North West provincial Council and decide on it.
 prepared by: signature: ……………………….    Checked by : signature:……
 (Junior Staff Officer in charge of the subject)      (Senior Staff Officer in charge of the subject)       
 Name:…………………………. Name :……………………………..
 designation:……………….... designation: ………………….....
 date: ………………………… date: ………………………….
       
  recommended and submitted. 
 signature: ………….
 (head of the department) 
 Name  : ……………………………………..
 designation :……………………………
date: …………………..                Frank:………………………………………
19.   recommendation of the ministry 
 reference No:……………………………
 the recruitment procedure of the service category of the service of ……………………..…..…..….... North Western 
provincial Council public service  approved by the hon. Governor of the North Western province on the date of 
…………………….  is hereby recommended and submitted for attestation. 
signature: ……………….
Name:……………………..
     
secretary (secretary to the relevant ministry) 
20.   recomendation of the Chief secretary 
 reference No. :………………………….
the recruitment procedure of the service category of the service of ………………….. North Western provincial Council 
public service  approved by the hon. Governor of the North Western province on the date of …………………….  is 
hereby recommended and submitted for attestation. 
signature:……………………..
Name:……………………………
   …………………….
 Chief secretary
Date:………………………. Official Seal:………………..

<!-- page 51 -->

51A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
21. recommendation of the North Western provincial Council public service Commission  
 reference No.: ……………………….
 the recruitment procedure of the service category of the service of ………………….. North Western 
provincial Council public service  approved by the hon. Governor of the North Western province on the date of 
…………………….  is hereby recommended and submitted for attestation. 
      
signature: …………………
Name:………………………………
  
secretary
North Western provincial Council public service Commission 
 Date:………………..                                         Official Seal:………………………….
22.  Approval of the hon. Governor in the North Western province 
 reference No. : ………………………….
 the service minute for the service of ………………. in the North Western provincial Council public service has 
been approved by the hon. Governor on the date of …………………………..
 
signature:…………………… 
Name:…………………………
secretary to the hon. Governor 
Office of Hon.Governor in the North Western Province 
 Date:………………..    Official Seal:………………………..
.......................................... schedule 
List of the titles of posts constituting the ............................. service
posts in Class .........................
Title of the post Institution the post belongs to Number of posts
.................... Schedule 
Competitive examination for recruitment to Class ....................... / Grade ....................... of Class .................... of the 
Service (Please see ............. of this Service Minute)
......................................................
1. Name of the examination .................................................................................................................................. 
2. details on the examination : examination will be held in the medium of ................................... Language
Question paper Duration Total marks Pass marks
3. Authority conducting the examination : ………………………............................................................. 
4. duration of the examination : ………………………………………………….....................................

<!-- page 52 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
52A
5. syllabus of the examination 
Name of question paper Syllabus
.................................. Schedule
Competitive examination for recruitment to Class ....................... / Grade ....................... of Class .................... of the 
......................... Service (Please see ............. of this Service Minute)
1. Name of the examination ...................................................................................................................................
2. details on the examination : examination will be held in the medium of ........... Language
Question paper Time Total marks Pass marks
3. Authority conducting the examination : …………………….............................................................
4. duration of examination :…………………………………………………........................................ 
5. syllabus of the examination
Name of question paper Syllabus
Appendix 02 
(Section 39 of Chapter IV)
 Scheme of Recruitment of the post of ........................ in the Department/ Ministry of ....................
1. related institutions 
1.1 department :………………………….. 
       ref. No. :.................................. date:............................. 
1.2 ministry: 
 ref. No. :.................................. date:............................. 
1.3  Approval of posts by the director General of the management services 
      ref. No. :.................................. date:............................. 
1.4 recommendation of the Chief secretary  
      ref. No. :.................................. date:...... provincial Council ....................... 
1.5 recommendation of the public service Commission of the North Western  provincial Council 
      ref. No. :.................................. date:............................. 
1.6 Approval of the hon. Governor of the North Western province
      ref. No. :.................................. date:.............................
2. Appointing Authority 
3. particulars on the Category of service 
3.1 Category of service:……………………………………….................................. 

<!-- page 53 -->

53A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
3.2 Grades:…………………………………………….............................................. 
3.3 General definition on the role assigned: ...............................................................        
3.4 Assignment of duties: ........................................................................................... 
4. Nature of the post/ posts: ................................................................................................
5. salary 
  5.1 salary Code:…………………………………………………………….............. 
5.2 monthly salary scale: ………………………………………………………............................................... 
5.3 Grade system and monthly salary step pertaining to grade system:
Grade Initial salary step Initial salary point (rs.)
6. post/posts associated with the category of service
6.1 Approved titles of posts, approved number of posts and the duties assigned thereto: 
Approved titles of posts Grade for 
which the post 
is approved
Approved 
number of posts
Duties
6.2 Consolidated number of officers: ........................................................................................
7. method of recruitment
7.1 percentages of recruitment:
Stream Percentage
open
Limited
merit
7.2 open recruitment  
  
7.2.1 Grade at recruitment:…………………………………………
7.2.2 Qualifications
  
7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications : …………………………… 
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications: ………………… 
7.2.2.3 experience: …………………………………………… 
7.2.2.4 Physical fitness: …………………………………….. 
7.2.2.5 other : ………………………………………………
7.2.3 Age 
7.2.3.1 minimum limit:…………………………….. 
7.2.3.2 maximum limit:……………………………
                   
7.2.4 method of recruitment

<!-- page 54 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
54A
7.2.4.1 Written examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
7.2.4.1.1 Authority conducting the examination: ………………………
7.2.4.2 professional t est
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
7.2.4.2.1 Authority conducting the examination: …………………………
7.2.4.3 General Interview: …………………………………………………………… 
 objectives to be achieved
7.2.4.3.1 board of General Interview ………………………………………….
7.2.4.4 Interview for evaluating eligibility 
Main Headings for 
which marks are 
awarded
Maximum Marks Minimum Marks considered for 
selection
7.2.4.4.1 Officer appointing the Board of Interview for Evaluating Eligibility ………………
7.2.5 method of inviting applications ………………………………………………
7.3 Limited recruitment
  
7.3.1 Grade at recruitment:……………………………………………………………………
7.3.2 Qualifications 
7.3.2.1 Educational Qualifications :…………………………………………………… 
7.3.2.2 Professional Qualifications :…………………………………………………… 
7.3.2.3 experience :…………………………………………………………………… 
7.3.2.4 physical Fitness :……………………………………………………………… 
7.3.2.5 other:…………………………………………………….………………………
7.3.3. Age 
7.3.3.1 minimum limit :……………………………………………………………… 
7.3.3.2 maximum limit :………………………………………………………………
7.3.4 method of recruitment : 
7.3.4.1 Written examination
  
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
7.3.4.1.1 Authority of conducting the examination: …………………………

<!-- page 55 -->

55A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
7.3.4.2 professional t est
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
7.3.4.2.1 Authority of Conducting the examination: ……………………………….
7.3.4.3 General Interview 
 objectives to be achieved: ………………………………………..
7.3.4.3.1 Authority conducting the General Interview: …………………………………
7.3.4.4 Interview for evaluating eligibility
Main Headings for 
which marks are 
awarded
Maximum Marks Minimum Marks considered for 
selection
7.4.2 Qualifications : 
7.4.2.1 Educational Qualification: .............................. 
7.4.2.2 Professional Qualifications: ........................ 
7.4.2.3 physical Fitness: ................................... 
7.4.2.4 experience: ..................................
7.4.2.5 other: ..................................
7.4.3. Age 
7.4.3.1 minimum limit: ................................... 
7.4.3.2 maximum limit:.................................
7.4.4 method of recruitment 
7.4.4.1 Written examination
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
7.4.4.1.1 Authority conducting the examination: …………
7.4.4.2 professional t est
Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks
    
7.4.4.2.1 Authority conducting the test: ……………………………………… 
   
7.4.4.3 General Interview 
 objectives to be achieved: ………………………………………………………  
7.4.4.3.1 Authority conducting the General Interview: ………………………

<!-- page 56 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
56A
7.4.4.4 Interview for evaluating eligibility
Main Headings for 
which marks are 
awarded
Maximum Marks Minimum Marks 
    considered for selection
7.4.4.4.1 Authority of appointing the board of Interview for evaluating eligibility: ………’
      
7.4.5 method of calling applications: ……………………………………….
 (If particulars pertaining to written examinations/ professional tests/ interviews for evaluating eligibility  
 cannot be accommodated in the respective spaces provided, append the annexes thereof.)
 
8.  Efficiency Bars  
8.1
Which of the 
Efficiency Bars
before how many years the 
Efficiency Bar to be passed
Nature of the Efficiency Bar - Written 
Examination/Professional Test/Certificate 
Course/other
1st Efficiency Bar
2nd   Efficiency Bar
3rd Efficiency Bar
8.2 Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar examinations are held? …………………………………… 
8.3 Authorities of conducting Efficiency Bar examination? 
                         1st Efficiency Bar................................ 
                         2nd Efficiency Bar................................ 
                         3rd Efficiency Bar..................................
9.   Language proficiency 
 9.1
Language Expected Proficiency to be achieved 
01.  Official language 
02.  Other official language 
03.  Linking Language  
 (only if applicable) 
10.   Grade promotions 
10.1 promotion from Grade III to Grade II 
10.1.1 According to the general performance 
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be obtained:
10.1.1.2 method of promotions:……………………….
10.2 promotion from Grade II to Grade I 
10.2.1 According to the general performance
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be obtained :…………………..
10.2.1.2 method of promotions :……………………….
10.3 promotion from Grade I to special Grade  
10.3.1 According to the general performance
10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be obtained :…………………..

<!-- page 57 -->

57A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
10.3.1.2 method of promotions :……………………….
11. making appointment to the posts 
11.1 Qualifications
post Qualifications method of selection 
(If required append the annexes thereof)
12. Conditions that are outside the interpretations specified in the operational rules of the North Western Provincial 
Council:.................................................................................................................................
13. Interpretations that are outside the interpretations specified in the Procedural Rules of the North Western Provincial 
Council....................................................................................................
14. Absorption to Grade system: 
       (this is applicable only for those who are in service on the date of commencement of recruitment procedure. If 
necessary submit with an attachment. mention N/A in cases where absorption is not applicable)
15. the conditions set out in the procedural rules of the North Western provincial Council and the provisions of the 
establishment Code shall be applicable on every appointment.
16. If there is any matter that is not provided for in this service minute, the hon. Governor of the North Western province 
shall consult the public service Commission of the North Western provincial Council and decide on it.
17. Interim provision: 
prepared by ….. signature ………         Checked by: ………. signature………
(Junior staff officer in charge of the subject) (Junior staff officer in charge of the subject)      
 Name:……………………. Name:…………………………
 designation:……………………….  designation:………………………
 date:………………………….  date:………………………….
         
  recommended and forwarded,
  signature:………………….
  (head of the department) 
       Name:…………………………………
       signature:……………………
Date:…………………………………                  Official Seal:……………………..
18.   recommendation of the ministry 
 reference No,:………………….
 the recruitment procedure of the service category of …………………………………….. of the ministry /department 
of …………………………………… approved by the hon. Governor of the North Western province on the date of 
…………………….  is hereby recommended and submitted for attestation. 

<!-- page 58 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
58A
        
 signature:…………………
 Name:……………….
 secretary (secretary to the relevant ministry)
 Date:……………………………              Official Seal:………………………
19.   recommendation of the Chief secretary 
 reference No:…………………….
 the recruitment procedure for the service category of ………………………………………….. of the ministry /
department of …………………………………… approved by the hon. Governor of the North Western province on 
the date of …………………….  is hereby recommended and submitted for attestation. 
signature:………………………..
Name: …………………………..
   Chief secretary 
Date:………………………………          Official Seal:………………………….. 
 
20. recommendation of the North Western provincial Council public service Commission.  
 reference No:………………………..
 the recruitment procedure of the service category of ………………….. of the ministry /department of 
…………………………………… approved by the hon. Governor of the North Western province on the date of 
…………………….  is hereby recommended and submitted for attestation. 
        
 signature :…………………
 Name :……………….
 secretary
North Western provincial Council public service Commission 
 Date:………………..                                                         Official Seal:………………
21. Approval of the hon. Governor in the North Western province 
 reference No. …………………………….
 the recruitment procedure for the service category ………………… of the ……………….. ministry / department of 
……………..was approved by the honourable Governor on ……………...
 
 signature:………………………
 Name  :…………………………
   secretary to the hon. Governor
 Office of Hon. Governor in the North Western Province 
 Date: …………………………..  Official Seal::……………………….

<!-- page 59 -->

59A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Appendix 03 
(Sections 89 and 90 of Chapter VII)
my No.:
date:
(by registered post) 
mr./mrs./miss…………………..
Address 
N.I.C. No.
dear, mr./mrs./miss. 
Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka ………….. Service / Appointment to the post of ……………. in the 
Department of ……………… in the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
I am pleased to inform you that the public service Commission has appointed you to a post of Grade III of the 
…………………………. Service with effect from ………………. on the results of open / limited competitive examination 
held on ……………. and on the results of the interview / interview for evaluating eligibility held on ………………… in 
accordance with the Gazette Notification No. ………….. dated ………………… of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
sri Lanka. Accordingly, you are kindly advised to report to the department / ministry of ……………………. at 8.30 a.m. 
on the above date to take up the appointment.
02. Your appointment shall come into effect from the date on which you assume duties. If you fail to report for duty as stated 
above without a valid reason this appointment shall stand cancelled.
03. You shall hold this post on public trust. You shall efficiently and diligently discharge the duties of this post for the benefit 
country and its people.
04. you shall be unconditionally loyal to the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and you are required to absolutely 
protect the confidentiality of your duty.
 
05. you have no right to engage yourself in a job in any other institution or any other profession as long as you are in the 
public service.
06.  this appointment is permanent. however, you are subject to a probation period of three years / one year. during this 
period you shall prove that you are fit for public service by discharging the duties and responsibilities stipulated in this 
appointment letter competently, by good conduct and efficient discharge of your duties. You shall also ensure that the 
conditions set out in the service minute / scheme of recruitment of ………………………………. and other requirements 
in this letter of appointment you are called upon to fulfil during the period of probation are fulfilled. You will be confirmed 
in this appointment at the end of the period of probation only if you succeed in duly fulfilling all these requirements. 
If it appears that you are unable to do so, this appointment may be revoked during or at the end of such period. your 
appointment shall become permanent only after the issuance of a formal letter by the Appointing Authority that you 
have been confirmed in such appointment. Until such time your appointment shall be treated as being not confirmed.
 (Appointment on limited basis – you will be reverted to the post you previously held in the public service if you fail the 
test held at the end of the induction training course prescribed under section …………of the service minute of the sri 
Lanka ………………… service published in the Gazette extraordinary No. ………. dated ………… of the democratic 
socialist republic of sri Lanka.) 

<!-- page 60 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
60A
 Appointment on limited and merit basis – you may make a request for reversion to the former service in terms of public 
service Commission Circular 2/2018.
07. this appointment is pensionable. you will be subject to a policy decision made by the government in future on the pension 
scheme entitled to you. Furthermore, you are required to contribute to the Widows’/ Widowers’ and orphans pension 
scheme. you shall make contributions towards it in a manner stipulated by the government from time to time.
08. your appointment will be governed by the provisions of the service minute / scheme of recruitment of the .................. 
................service / post of ........................... published in the Gazette  extraordinary No. .................. dated ........….... of 
the d emocratic s ocialist republic of s ri Lanka / approved by the p ublic s ervice Commission in relation thereto (post) on 
............... under ref. No. .................. and the amendments that have already been made or may be made in future thereto.
09. You shall before the lapse of five (05) years from the assumption of this post prove that you have acquired proficiency 
in the official language in accordance with the policy of the government. In the event that it was the Sinhala Language 
through which you were qualified for this appointment, your other official language shall be Tamil. Similarly, if it was 
the Tamil Language through which you were qualified for this appointment, your other official language shall be Sinhala. 
provisions in public Administration Circular 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and provisions in circulars incidental thereto 
will be applicable in this regard. Furthermore, if it was the English Language through which you were qualified for this 
appointment, you shall at your discretion acquire proficiency of the other official language either Sinhala or Tamil within 
three (03) years and the proficiency of the other official language within five (05) years of the date of appointment.
10. You should discharge your official responsibilities and obligations adhering to all rules, regulations, orders and procedures on 
the public service enacted by the public service Commission. you will also be required to be subject to the establishments 
Code of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and the Financial regulations of government and other government 
regulations, circulars, instructions and amendments issued thereto from time to time.
11.  the monthly salary scale applicable for this appointment as per the schedule I of the public Administration Circular No. 
03/2016 of 25.02.2016 is rs. .................. (sL ...............). salary will be paid to you in accordance with the provisions 
of such circular as per schedule II thereof. In addition to this, you are also entitled to other allowances paid by the 
government to public officers from time to time. You are required to pass the first efficiency bar as prescribed in the 
scheme of recruitment / service minute within 03 years of the above appointment.
12.  you are bound to furnish security as per the public servants’ securities ordinance in such manner and sum as decided 
by the head of the department.
13.  In accordance with the official duties of your post you are liable to discharge your duties at any time of a particular day, 
despite being required to engage in your duties during the periods of working days stipulated by the government under 
normal circumstances.
14.  you are liable to discharge duties of this post anywhere in any area of the North Western province on a formal advise 
given to you immediately or with due notice.
15.  you shall before the expiry of three months from the assumption of this appointment prove through a formal medical 
examination report that you are mentally and physically fit to serve in any area of the North Western Province. It shall 
be your responsibility to ensure that this medical examination report is obtained through the Medical Officer in charge 
of a Government hospital on Forms General 169 and health 169.
16. You shall make the affirmation/ take the oath in terms of Schedules 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. If you fail to make affirmation/ take oath prescribed by law your appointment shall automatically 
cease.

<!-- page 61 -->

61A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
17. y ou should duly establish your identity before taking up this appointment.
18. As soon as you assume duties in your appointment, you shall submit a letter on the prescribed form that you have reported 
for duties. (Appendix 06)
19. on the date of assumption of duties itself you shall submit the following documents to the head of the Institution. 
 (i)  Certified copy of your National Identity Card;
 (ii)   Certificate of Birth;
 (iii) Originals and a set of photocopies of educational, other educational and professional certificates in support 
of the required basic educational qualifications for the post; (The originals will be returned after perusal) 
 (iv) Certificate of Marriage, if married: Certificate of Birth of the spouse and, Certificates of Birth of children, 
if any; 
 (v)  service Agreement on Form General 160; 
 (vi) declaration of Assets on Form General 261; 
 (vii) declaration of Assets and Liabilities, as applicable; 
 (viii) Addresses permanent and temporary.
20. In the event you resign from this post, due notice should be given before 30 days. you may also resign from this post 
by paying a sum equivalent to your month’s salary to the government in lieu of such notice if the Appointing Authority 
agrees.
21. If the fact that you have submitted erroneous or false information or documents or you have not completed the prescribed 
qualifications to obtain this appointment in the North Western Provincial Public Service is established at any stage after 
the assumption of this post by you, your appointment will be treated null and void and the appointment revoked forthwith. 
Furthermore, action will be taken to recover from you all sums of money already paid to you under this appointment as 
salaries and other allowances by the government/ the provincial council.
22. please complete the relevant form and forthwith inform the ……………….. that you are in receipt of this letter and 
whether you accept this appointment subject to the conditions stated herein.
23. y our appointment will be cancelled in the event you fail to inform the ............................. that you accept this appointment 
in terms of Section 22 above within 14 days of the date on which this appointment takes effect.
24. (Any specific conditions to be met should be stated here.)
yours faithfully,
signature 
Name
designation
Copies:
1. ………………… 
2. ………………… 
3. ………………… 
4. ………………… 
5. ………………… 
6. Auditor General 
(Strike off the paragraphs that are inapplicable)

<!-- page 62 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
62A
Appendix 04 
(Sections 89 and 90 of Chapter VII) 
(Section 193 of Chapter XIII)
my No. ……………………
date: …………………
(by registered post) 
(Name) ……………………………….
(Address) ……………………………
N.I.C. …………………………
dear mr./mrs./miss 
Appointment to the Post of ....................... in the Ministry / Department of ............  in the North Western Provincial 
Council Public Service on Contract Basis
I am pleased to inform you that the hon. Governor in the North Western province has approved your appointment on contract 
basis in the post of ..... ............................. based on the results of the interview held on ........................ in relation to the 
recruitment on contract basis to the post of ……………. for a period of ……………… to ……………….. in the ministry 
/ department of ..................................
02.  You shall hold this post on public trust. You shall efficiently and diligently discharge all duties and responsibilities of the 
post for the benefit of the North Western Province and its people.
03.  you shall be unreservedly loyal to the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka / North Western provincial Council 
and you are bound to fully protect the confidence in performing your duty.  
04.  you have no right to engage yourself in a job in any other institution or any other profession as long as you are in the 
North Western provincial public service.
05.  this appointment is made solely on contract basis for a period of ................ Accordingly, this appointment will invariably 
terminate on .................... this appointment may be terminated even before that date as the need demands.
06.  you have no right whatsoever to request that you be made permanent in this post by virtue of your holding this appointment 
which is made on contract basis. similarly, holding this post will not cause to grant you any special rights to request that 
you be appointed to another post in the public service on permanent basis.
07.  you will be paid a monthly allowance of rs. ....................................... you have no right to be entitled to the increase 
in salary. In addition to this, you will be entitled during the effective period of this appointment to the lawful privileges 
which an officer permanently appointed to this post is entitled.
08.  you shall make contributions to the public service provident Fund. the amount to be paid will be announced by the 
government from time to time.
09.  You shall discharge your official responsibilities and obligations adhering to all rules, regulations, orders and procedures 
enacted in respect of the North Western provincial public service. Further, you are also required to be subject to the 

<!-- page 63 -->

63A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
establishments Code of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and North Western provincial Financial 
regulations and other government regulations, circulars, instructions and amendments issued thereto from time to time.
10.  Your appointment on contract basis shall come into effect from the date on which you assume duties. You appointment 
may be terminated in accordance with the policies of the government or the North Western provincial Council. In the event 
you wish to resign from the service, it shall be informed my before 30 days. otherwise, you may pay a sum equivalent 
to your month’s salary in lieu of one month’s notice.
11.  You are entitled to leave enjoyed by an  officer in the North Western Provincial Council Public Service.
12.  You are bound to furnish security in terms of Public Officers’ (Security) Ordinance, if so required by the Head of your 
department.
13.  You shall make the affirmation/ take the oath in terms of Schedules 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. If you fail to make affirmation/ take oath during the period prescribed by law your appointment 
shall automatically cease.
14. you shall duly establish your identity before taking up this appointment.
15.  As soon as you assume duties in your appointment, you shall submit a letter on the prescribed form that you have reported 
for duties.
16. on the date of assumption of duties itself you shall submit the following documents to head of the Institute.  
 (i) Certified copy of your National Identity Card; 
 (ii) service Agreement on Form General 160; 
 (iii) declaration of Assets on Form General 261; 
 (iv) declaration of Assets and Liabilities as applicable; 
 (v)  permanent and temporary addresses.
17. y ou are required to subscribe to the conditions that you will conform to the provisions of the Chapter VI of the Constitution 
of the democratic socialist republic of sri Lanka and any laws and rules that now exist or may be introduced in the 
future for giving effect to the language policy of the government.
18.  please acknowledge the receipt of this letter and inform whether you accept the appointment on contract basis in accordance 
with the terms and conditions stated herein. your reply should be forwarded through the head of the institute. 
19.  your appointment will be cancelled in the event you fail to inform that you accept this appointment in terms of section 
18 above within 14 days of the date on which this appointment takes effect.
yours faithfully, 
............................................................. 
Appointing Authority 
Copies : 
 1. ministry of ....................................
 2. Auditor General
 3. ............................., department of ............ 
 4. Personal file. 
(Strike off the paragraphs that are inapplicable)

<!-- page 64 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
64A
Appendix 05 
(Section 93 of Chapter VII)
(by registered post) 
your No:………………………….
Name:……………………………..
Address:……………………………..
             ……………………………
date: …………………………………
mrs./mrs./miss………………………………………
………………………………………………………
Appointment of the post of ..................... in the Ministry/ Department of .............
this refers to your letter No. ............. dated ..................
02. I hereby inform you that I agree to accept the appointment in the public service offered to me by the letter under reference 
subject to conditions stated therein. 
03. I hereby inform you that I do not wish to accept the appointment in the public service offered to me and the letter of 
appointment is returned herewith.
yours faithfully, 
signature .............................. 
National Identity No. ..................................................... (Strike off paragraphs not applicable.)
Appendix 06
 (Section 96 of Chapter VII)
(should be submitted in duplicate) 
Address: …………………………
          ………………………
date:………………….
 
mr./mrs./miss……………………..
through …………………………….
Reporting for duty in the post of ..................in the Ministry/ Department of ...................
this refers to the letter No. ........... dated .................. issued by ............................ appointing me to the post stated above. 
02. I hereby confirm that I reported for duty to .............................. on ...................... for discharging the relevant duties and 
responsibilities subject to the conditions stated in the letter under reference.

<!-- page 65 -->

65A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
yous Faithfully
(Appointee) 
signature:………………
Name:…………………..
designation:………………
I hereby certify that (mr./ mrs./ miss) ............................................. reported for duty in the post of ....................................... 
...................... at the office of .................................................. on ....................
yours faithfully, 
signature: .................................. 
Name : ....................................... 
designation : ...............................
Date:……………………    Official Seal :………………………..
Appendix 07 
(Section 113 of Chapter VIII)
Address: ……………….
my No.: ……………………..
 ……………………………………..
date: …………..
mr./mrs./miss: …………………….
National identity Card No.:  ………….. 
through :……………………………..
Termination of Appointment
you are hereby informed that your appointment which was subject to a period of probation is terminated with immediate 
effect in terms of Section 113 of Chapter VIII of the Procedural Rules of the North Western Provincial Council, due to your 
failure to fulfil the requirements stated in Section 110 of Chapter VIII of V olume I of the said Procedural Rules.
02.  please settle all advances and loans drawn by you from the government or North Western provincial Council on or before 
………………… Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken against you.
03. Furthermore, you are required to duly hand over all properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and official identity 
card etc. owned by the government and provincial council   in your charge before …………….. Failure to do so will 
also result in legal action being taken against you.
(Appointing Authority)  
signature: …………………………………… 
Name : …………………………………… 
designation : .....................................
date : …………………………………….

<!-- page 66 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
66A
Copies : 
1. Accountant
2. Auditor General 
3. Personal file of the officer (This form should be utilized with amendments where necessary.)
Appendix 08 
(Sections 114, 117 and 120 of Chapter VIII)
reference No. :……………………………………
Annual review report to be submitted in respect of the officers of the North West Provincial Council public service during 
the probationary period.
(Complete all details. Indicate ‘No’ or ‘Not Applicable’ where applicable)
 
1. Particulars of the officer 
1.1 Name of the officer: 
1.2 post: 
1.3 National Identity Card No. : 
1.4 duty station: 
1.5 date of appointment:
1.6 date of assumption of the appointment: 
1.7 date ending the period of probation: 
1.8 period relevant to the review: From ......................... to...........................
A brief description of the duties assigned to the officer .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 
.. . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
3. Attendance 
3.1 Does he attend office for duties at the due time or before it? Yes / No 
3.2 Does he habitually come late for duties? Yes / No 
3.3 Does he duly attend to his duties during prescribed hours? Yes / No 
3.4 Does he spend office time to attend to other matters extraneous to duties? Yes / No 
3.5 Leave particulars for the relevant period:
Casual        Vacation      sick           half pay          No pay 
. .. . . . . .     . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .        . . . . . . .        . . . . . .
 
4. discipline and Conduct 
4.1 discipline and conduct within the place of work weak / satisfactory / good / very good 
4.2 Discipline and conduct outside office hours and place of work weak / satisfactory / good / very good 

<!-- page 67 -->

67A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
4.3 Description in brief of disciplinary action on the officer during the relevant period: .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .  
 . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5. performance of duties 
5.1 Efficiency weak / satisfactory / good / very good 
5.2 reliability weak / satisfactory / good / very good 
5.3 Knowledge of laws, rules, procedures, regulations, circulars etc. weak / satisfactory / good / very good
6. Any special skills shown: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Any noticeable weaknesses shown: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8. Particulars of passing over the Efficiency Bar: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Particulars on gaining proficiency in the official languages: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
10.  Additional educational and professional qualifications obtained: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
11. Matters to be brought to the attention of the officer: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
12. Overall conclusion on the officer in consideration of all relevant factors: weak / satisfactory / good /very good 
13. The conclusions of this Review Report were brought to the notice of the officer on..........................
(Immediate Supervising (Head of Department / Institution) Staff Officer) 
signature : .................................    signature : ................................. 
Name :……..................................    Name ....................................... 
designation :................................                       designation : ..................................
date : ......................................                               date :........................................
14. the conclusions of this review report were brought to my notice on ................................
(Officer) 
signature : ................................. 
Name : …….................................. 
designation : .................................... 
date : ......................................

<!-- page 68 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
68A
Appendix 09 
(Section 124 of Chapter VIII)
my No.:
Address: ……………………… 
 ………………………….
 …………………………
date  :…………………………
mr./mrs.miss : ………………….
National Identity Card No. :…………
through :……………………….
Reversion to the former post
you are hereby informed that your appointment which was subject to a probation period of one year is terminated with 
immediate effect in terms of Section 124 of Chapter VIII of the Procedural Rules of North Western Public Service due to 
your failure to fulfil the requirements stated in Section 110 of Chapter VIII of V olume I of the said Procedural Rules.
02. Accordingly, you are reverted to your former post. / you are reverted to your former post on supernumerary basis. 
03. Please duly hand over all government properties, documents, keys, computer passwords and official identity card in your 
charge before ………………………….
(Appointing Authority) 
signature:…………………………… 
designation :……………………………
Name :…………………………… 
date :………………………… 
Copies : 
1. Accountant 
2. Former Appointing Authority 
3. Auditor General 
4. Personal file of the office
Appendix 10
 (Sections 126 and 128 of Chapter VIII)
Address:  ………………………………
 …………………………….....
 ……………………………….
date: ………………………………
mr. / mrs. / ms.: …………………………………….. 
though (head of department / Institution)

<!-- page 69 -->

69A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Confirmation in Service
I am pleased to inform you that you are confirmed / that the ………………………. (Appointing Authority) has approved the 
confirmation of you in the …………………………………… service/ post of ……………………………… from ……………. 
you are kindly informed that your period of probation has also been extended from ………………………………….. to 
…………………………………. in terms of the provisions in sections 125, 127 and 128 of Chapter VIII of V olume I of the 
procedural rules of the  North Western provincial Council public service.
(Appointing Authority/ Administrative Authority) 
signature :……………………………
 Name :…………………………… 
designation :…………………………… 
* state, only if applicable
Copy: For Personnel file
Appendix 11 
(Section 145 of Chapter X)
my No.:        ……………………………
Address:   ………………………………..
 …………………………………..
date:           …………………………………….
mr./ mrs./ ms.: ....................... 
(post): ........................................... 
National Identity Card No.: ........................................ 
through: .................................... 
 
Notice of passing over of the … st/ nd/ rd Efficiency Bar
You are hereby informed that you have passed the … st/ nd/ rd Efficiency Bar relating to the post of…………….. referred 
to in the Service Minute / Scheme of Recruitment of the ………………. service/ post with effect from .............................
(Appointing Authority/ Administrative Authority) 
signature : …………………………… 
Name : …………………………… 
designation : …………………………… 
Copies : 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. Personal file

<!-- page 70 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
70A
Appendix 12 
(Sections 166 and 178 of Chapter XII)
Address : ...............................................                                  
 .............................................. 
date : ............................................... 
(Appointing Authority) ………………………………………………………………….
 through (head of department/ Institution) …………………..  
Request for permanent/ temporary release from North Western Provincial public service for employment in the 
post of …………….. in ……………. as per the consent of the officer
1. Particulars of the public officer : 
1.1 Full name : ...................................................................................................... 
1.2 service : ............................ Class : ........................... Grade : .................... 
1.3 post : ................................................................................................ 
1.4 Workstation: .................................................................................................. 
1.5 department/ Institution: ................................................................................ 
1.6 ministry : ....................................................................................................................... 
1.7 The date of confirmation in public service: ........................................... 
1.8 Whether any impediment for this release in terms of section 173 of Chapter XII of V olume I of the procedural 
rules of the North Western provincial Council public service and details, if any. (should be completed 
compulsorily)...........................................................................................................................................................
.................................................................................................................................................................................
..........................................................................................................................................................
1.9 details of temporary releases from the North Western provincial public service prior to this : (should be 
completed compulsorily) 
Institution  post  period y ears  months.
..................  ..................... from ........ to ......... ........ ......... 
.................... ..................... from ........ to ......... ........ ......... 
................... .....................  from ........ to ........ ......... ......... 
.................... ..................... from ........ to ......... ........ .........
2. The post in which the officer is expected to serve after release: 
2.1 Institution : 
2.2 ministry : 
2.3 t rade union/ Welfare union : 
2.4 post : 
2.5 Whether the request is for permanent or temporary release: 
2.6 If temporary, for how long: 
2.7 date expected to assume duties in the post:
3.  I forward herewith the letter issued by …………….. expressing willingness to appoint me to the post of …………… in 
the ………… and the consent of the head of the Institution to be served after the release.
4.   I forward herewith a certified copy of the minutes of the meeting of the ……………. of the …………….. Trade Union 

<!-- page 71 -->

71A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
/ …………….. Welfare society stating that I have been selected for the post of ………….. in the said union and that 
it is necessary for them to have me temporarily released from the North Western provincial Council public service for 
duties in the said post. I also forward herewith the details about the number of members registered in the said union and 
a copy of the approved constitution.
5.   I certify that the facts stated by me above are true. I also express my willingness for the release. this request is submitted 
in terms of section 166 of Chapter XII of V olume 1 of the procedural rules of the North Western provincial Council 
public service. Accordingly, I request that I be permanently / temporarily released from the public service for duties in 
the post of ………. in the …………….
 ………………………………                                                ……………………….
 Date       Signature of the Officer
6. recommendation of the head of department/ Institution: 
 I, hereby certify that the above-mentioned facts are true according to the personal file, to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. I further certify that I scrutinized it focusing the facts set out under  1.8 and 1.9.
              …………………………
                                                                                      signature of the head of the department 
      Official Seal
 date………………………….
      
7.   recommendation of the secretary to the ministry:
 
 I am satisfied with the facts above and recommend temporary/ permanent release from the North Western Provincial 
Council public service from ………………………… to …………….. 
 ……………………………… 
 signature of the secretary to the ministry 
 Official Seal
        
 date………………….
8.  recommendation of the Chief secretary: 
 I recommend mr./ mrs./ ms. ……………………. be released temporarily/ permanently from the North Western 
provincial Council public service from ………………………… to ………………….
  …………………………………… 
  signature of the Chief secretary 
  Official Seal
 date : …………………. 
          (Strike off the words and sentences that are inapplicable)
               

<!-- page 72 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
72A
Appendix 13 
(Sections 166 and 178 of Chapter XII)
 my No. : ………………… 
 Address …………………... ……………………
 date ……………………
 (Appointing Authority) 
………………………………..
Request for permanent / temporary release of an officer in the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
from the post he presently holds on the need of the government or North Western Provincial Council Public Service
1. Particulars of the Officer: 
1.1 Full Name :
1.2 service:   Class :   Grade : 
1.3 post : 
1.4 The date of confirmation in public service / post : 
1.5 Workstation : 
1.6 department / Institution :
1.7 ministry :
2. The post to which the officer is to be appointed after the release : 
2.1 post : 
2.2 salary scale : 
2.3 Workstation : 
2.4 Institution: 
2.5  Any impediments for this release in terms of section 173 of Chapter XII of V olume I of the procedural 
rules of the North Western provincial Council and details if any (should be completed compulsorily) 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………… 
2.6 details of temporary releases from the public service prior to this 
 Institution    designation  period years months 
 ………….  …………….  From….to……  ……… …........ 
 ………….  …………….  From….to…… ……… ……… 
 ………….  …………….  From….to…… ……… ………
3. proposed release : 
3.1 Whether permanent or temporary:
3.2 If temporary, for how long : For a period of …… years….months…... days from ….. to ………
4. The letter of consent by the officer is attached as Annex ……………………

<!-- page 73 -->

73A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
5.  The letter of consent for the release of the Head of Institution/ Administrative Authority under whom the officer presently 
serves is attached as Annex ……………………..
6.  25% of the consolidated salary of the officer as contribution to his pension and contributions to the Widows’ and Orphans’ 
pension Fund / Widowers’ and orphans’ pension Fund will be duly paid by the ……………………….., who is expected 
to employ the officer.
7.  Accordingly, You are kindly requested to release the above officer temporarily / permanently from the post he presently 
holds and from the North Western provincial public service for appointment to the above post. I herewith express my 
consent for the said release and you are kindly requested to take necessary action thereon. 
signature : …………………………..
Name : ……………………………… 
designation : ………………………… 
date : ……………………………….. 
(should be completed by the secretary of the ministry / head of 
Institution under whom the officer is proposed to be appointed)
 (Strike off the words and sentences that are inapplicable)
Appendix 14 
(Section 214 of Chapter XV)
Address : ............................................... ............................................... 
ref. No : ................................................ 
date : ................................................ 
mr. / mrs. / ms............................................. .
....................................................................
 .....................................................................
Notice of Vacation of Post
you who were holding the post of .................................... in this ministry/ department have not reported for duty from 
................... without leave being duly approved.
02.  Accordingly, you are hereby informed in terms of section 214 of Chapter XV of V olume I of the procedural rules of the 
North Western provincial Council public service that you are deemed to have vacated your post from ............................
03.  please settle all advances and loans drawn by you from the Government or North Western provincial Council before 
...................... . Failure to do so will result in legal action being taken against you for the recovery of such dues.
04.  Furthermore, please duly hand over all the properties owned by the Government and North Western provincial Council, 
documents, keys, computer passwords and official identity card in your charge before ....................... . Failure to do so 
will also result in legal action being taken against you.
05.  As a result of the vacation of your post you will forfeit the right to be reappointed to a post in the North Western provincial 
public service and the right to a pension or grant under the minutes on pensions.

<!-- page 74 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
74A
signature : .……………………………………
Name : …………………………………… 
designation : ……………………………… 
Copies : 
1. Appointing Authority 
2. Auditor General
Appendix 15
 (Sub Section 253(V) of Chapter XVIII)
  Name           : ………………………
  designation: ………………………
 Address        : ………………………                 
……………………… 
your No. :.......................................... 
date : .................................................... 
through head of Institution/ department 
(Authority With delegated power) ................................................................
…………………………………….
(Authority with delegated power)        
Clarifications on the proposed annual transfer
I have been informed by your letter / proposed annual  transfer schedule  No. ………………….. dated  …………… that it is 
proposed to transfer me to the …………………… . 
02. y ou are kindly requested under sub section 253(V) of Chapter XVIII, V olume I of the procedural rules of the North 
Western provincial Council public service to reconsider the proposed transfer be cancelled / varied in view of the facts 
described below.
2.1 ................................................................................................................................................. 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
2.2 ................................................................................................................................................. 
 .................................................................................................................................................. 
2.3 ..................................................................................................................................................
03. Certified photocopies of following documents are attached in support of the above facts. 
04. you are kindly requested that I be transferred to one of the following workstation……………………… (proposed 
working place). 
1st preference  ………………………………………… 
2nd preference  ……………………………………… 
3rd preference  …………………………………………
         
………………………………… signature  
recommendation  of the head of department
 (Authority with delegated  power) 
............................................................ 

<!-- page 75 -->

75A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
I am satisfied/ not satisfied that the above facts stated by …………………. are correct. this request is recommended/ not 
recommended.
signature : ................................. 
Name : ................................. 
designation : ................................
date : ................................ 
Appendix 16 
(Sub Section 256 (I) and (V) of Chapter  XVIII )
submission of appeals against the decisions on annual transfers ........... to the North Western provincial Council public 
service Commission 
particulars of Appellant Officer
a. personal Information
1.  Name with initials:-
2.  post and Class (Grade)
 
3.  date of birth :-  
dd/mm/yyyy
4 .   Age:- ... years ... months ... days 
(As at 31.12.20…)
5.  National Identity 
Card No. :-
6.Gender
7.  permanent Address :- 08. temporary Address:- 9. telephone No. 
    Office :- 
    private :-
10.  marital status (- 11. Name of spouse:- 12. occupation and place of work of 
spouse:-
13. No. of children- 14. their ages:- 15. schools attended:-
b. service Information
16. date of appointment to the post :-
17. present workstation :- 18.  City where the workstation is situated :-
19.  date of reporting to the present workstation:-  
dd/mm/yyyy
20. period of service in the present workstation 
(as at 31.12.20…):-
 .....years ....... months .....days
21. Have you served in a beneficial (popular) workstation / workstations?
22.  Former 
workstations 
served in 
the public /
provincial 
council public 
service
Workstation popular workstation. / 
unpopular workstation
period of service
From year/ 
month/ date
to year/ month/ 
date
1
2
3
4
5
6

<!-- page 76 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
76A
 c. Details of annual transfer request (Mark √ in the relevant cage.)
23 have you applied for 
annual transfers
yes Workstations to which you have made 
applications seeking transfers, if any 
1
2
3
No
 Any such workstations to which you have received annual transfers 
24. Number of officers involving the transfer circle .......................................
25.  have you applied to the transfer review 
Committee
 yes
 No
26. Details of the request made to the Transfer Review Committee 
Cancellation of the transfer If applied for amendment of transfer, workstations so 
applied for
 1. ....................................................................... 
  2. ...................................................................... 
  3. .......................................................................
Amendment
to obtain a new transfer
27. decision of the transfer review Committee 
28.  Reasons for submitting of an appeal to the North Western provincial Council Public Service Commission 
against the decision of the Transfer Review Committee
 1. ........................................................................................................................................
 2. ........................................................................................................................................ 
 3. ........................................................................................................................................ 
29. Certified copies of relevant written facts in support of above reasons are attached as Annexes as given 
below. 
Annex (01) ......................................................................................................................... 
Annex (02) ......................................................................................................................... 
Annex (03) ......................................................................................................................... 
30. relief sought 
 1. ........................................................................................................................................
 2. ........................................................................................................................................
 3. ........................................................................................................................................ 
 I declare that the foregoing information is true and accurate
.....................                                                               ........................................ 
         date                                                                                    signature 
d. recommendation of the secretary to the ministry / head of department 
1. I certify that above information stated by the officer is correct according to his / her personal file. 
2. I recommend the appeal on annual transfers submitted to the North Western provincial Council public service 
Commission./ I do not recommend due to the following reasons.

<!-- page 77 -->

77A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
 i. .......................................................................................................................... 
 ii. ..........................................................................................................................
 iii. ..........................................................................................................................
4. the Appellant can be released/ cannot be released without a successor
 ................... ............................................... 
 date signature
e. recommendation of the transferring Authority 
 i. Number of officers involving the transfer circle: ....................................................................... 
 ii. recommendation on the appeal : .............................................................................................................
  ..................................................................................................................................................................
  .............................................................................................................................................
 .....................                             .......................................... 
 date signature 
Appendix 17
(Sub Section 256 (V) of Chapter XVIII)
submission of appeals against the decisions on annual transfers ........... to the North Western provincial public service 
Commission
 Particulars of Succeeding Officer
 I. Name and post of the Appellant Officer : ....................................................................................... 
 II. Information of the relevant Succeeding Officer of the Appellant
a. Personal Information
1. Name with initial:-
2. post & Class (Grade):-
 
3.  date of birth :-  
dd/mm/yyyy
4.  Age :- ... years ... months ... days 
(As at 31.12.20…)
5. National 
Identity Card 
No. :-
6. male / 
Female
7. permanent Address:- 8. temporary Address:- 9. telephone No. 
Office :- 
private :-
10. marital status:- 11. Name of spouse:- 12. occupation and place of work of 
spouse:-
13. No. of children:- 14. their ages:- 15. schools attended:- 

<!-- page 78 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
78A
b. Service Information
16. date of appointment to the post:- 
17. present workstation :- 18. City where the workstation is situated :-
19. date of reporting to the present workstation:-  
dd/mm/yyyy
20. period of service in the present workstation (as at 
31.12.20…):- 
.....years ....... months .....days
21. Have you served in a beneficial (popular) workstation / workstations? 
22. Former 
workstations 
in the public 
service/
provincial 
council public 
service 
Workstation popular workstation / 
unpopular workstation
period of service
From 
year/ month/ date 
to  
year/ month/ 
date
1
2
3
c. Details of annual transfer request (Mark √ in the relevant cage.)
23.  have you applied for annual
transfers 
 1.
 2.
 3.
yes Workstations to which you 
have made applications 
seeking transfers, if any
1
2
3
No
Any such workstations to which you have received annual transfers
24.  have you applied to Annual transfer review 
Committee
yes
No
25.  request made to the Annual transfer review Committee 
Cancellation of the 
transfer
If applied for amendment of transfer, workstations so applied for
01……………………
02……………………
03…………………..
Amendment
to obtain a new 
transfer
26. decision of the transfer review Committee
27.  Whether the successor of the appellant have submitted an appeal to the North Western provincial Council public service 
Commission …………………………………………………………

<!-- page 79 -->

79A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
28.  In the event of the request of the Appellant being allowed, the observations and recommendations of the transferring 
Authority on implementation of cycle of transfer without being prejudice to the Succeeding Officer.
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………..
date:-……………………. ………………………………….
 signature 
Appendix 18
(Sub Section 257(VI) of Chapter XVIII)
my No. : 
Address : 
date :
mr. / mrs. / ms. ......................................
(post) ...................................... 
(Institution) ...................................... 
sir, / madam,
release from service as per the annual transfer order ………….
You have been transferred with immediate effect to the Office of ………………………….  (place of work) on the annual 
transfer order No. …………. dated …………… of the  ………………….. .
02.  Accordingly you are kindly informed that you are released from the service of this Office after the service on ……………… 
so as to enable you to assume duties in the new workstation on …………….
03. Before you transfer, you are required to duly hand over in writing all files, documents, keys, computer passwords and 
official identity card of the government and other government properties in your custody to ……………. (Name and 
designation of the designated officer).
04.  you are required to assume duties in the new workstation and inform me through the head of the department / Institution.
05. y ou are further informed that if you do not report for duty on the due date at the new workstation as per the annual 
transfer order above, you will be deemed to have vacated the post on your own accord in terms of provisions in section 
214 of Chapter XV of procedural rules of the North Western provincial Council public service Commission.
signature ................................
Name ..................................... 
designation ................................ 
(Permanent address of the officer.................................. 
telephone No. .......................)
Copies
01.
02.
03.
04.  

<!-- page 80 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
80A
Appendix 19
 (Section 267 of Chapter XVIII and Section 280 of Chapter XIX)
Name with initials: ....................     
Address : .................................... 
date :  .................................
secretary to the North Western provincial Council public service Commission 
through head of department / Institution 
through Appointing Authority 
through secretary to ministry
Appeal against non-annual transfer orders
01. particulars of the Appellant 
1.1 Full Name :................................................................................................... 
1.2 private telephone No. ................................................................................. 
1.3 service: ....................... Class ............... Grade: .................. 
1.4 post : .................................................................................................. 
1.5 present Workstation : .......................................................................... 
1.6 department / Institution : ........................................................................... 
1.7 ministry: ..........................................................................
02. details on decision / order on which the appeal is based
2.1 by whom the transfer decision / order was made (state the designation of the authority who made the 
decision.) ..................................................................................................................................
2.2 State briefly as to what transfer decision / order was made by the above authority. ...............................................
...............................................................................
2.3 The date on which the officer received the transfer decision / order .......................................................................
.......................................................
2.4 state clearly whether the transfer was made on exigencies of service or disciplinary grounds (mark √ in the 
relevant cage) 
A transfer on exigencies of service 
  
A transfer on disciplinary grounds
 
2.5 In the case of a transfer on disciplinary grounds, state clearly as to what circumstance below under which it      
 was made. (Mark —√˜ in the relevant cage.) 
2.5.1 on the grounds revealed prior to commencement of a preliminary Inquiry
2.5.2 on the grounds revealed during the course of a preliminary Inquiry 
2.5.3 on the grounds revealed subsequent to holding a preliminary Inquiry 
2.5.4 Inclusion of a transfer as a punishment of a disciplinary order issued after the 
 Formal disciplinary Inquiry
2.6  Certified copies of the letters containing the transfer decision / order above have been attached as following 

<!-- page 81 -->

81A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Annexes.
 Annex (1) .............................................................................................................. 
           Annex (2) ..................................................................................................................
N.b. It is possible to make an appeal by this format if a transfer is only included as a punishment of a disciplinary order 
as stated in 2.5.4 above. Where disciplinary order includes other punishments in addition to the transfer, a separate 
appeal should be made against such overall disciplinary order in terms of the provisions in sections 23:7 and 23:8 of 
procedural rules of the North Western provincial Council.
3.  relief /reliefs sought by the Appellant by the submission of appeal
 ………………………………………………………………………………….
 …………………………………………………………………………………..
 ………………………………………………………………………………..
4. reasons/ facts given by the Appellant for seeking the relief stated under (03) above
4.1 ......................................................................................................................... 
4.2 ...................................................................................................................... 
4.3 ...................................................................................................................... 
4.4 ....................................................................................................................... 
4.5 Certified copies of written facts in support of the above reasons / facts have been attached as following 
Annexes:
  Annex (1)............................................................................................................. 
  Annex (2) ............................................................................................................. 
  Annex (3) ............................................................................................................
5. declaration of the Appellant
 
 I declare that all the information above is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and that I am well aware 
of the fact that the intentional furnishing of false and incorrect information will by itself lead to the dismissal of the 
appeal and be subject to the disciplinary action.
signature : .............................. 
Name : .............................. 
designation : ..............................
6. observations / recommendations of the head of department / Institution………………………………
 my observations on the above appeal are given below.
 1........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 2........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 3........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 4........................................................................................................................................................................
 
 Accordingly, I recommend granting relief sought by the Appellant is suitable. / not suitable. 
 signature : .............................. 
           Name : .............................. 
           designation : ..............................

<!-- page 82 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
82A
7.   observations / recommendations of the Appointing Authority .............................................., 
       my observations on the above appeal are given below.
 1 ……………………………………………………….
 2 ……………………………………………………….
 3 ……………………………………………………
 4 ………………………………………………………
 Accordingly, I recommend granting relief sought by the Appellant is suitable./ not suitable. 
        signature : .............................. 
        Name : .............................. 
        designation : ..............................
8.   observations / recommendations of the secretary to the ministry .............................................., 
          
         my observations on the above appeal are given below:
 
 1........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 2........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 3........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 4........................................................................................................................................................................
         Accordingly, I recommend granting relief sought by the Appellant is suitable./ not suitable.
 
 signature : .............................. 
           Name : .............................. 
           designation : ..............................
Copy
01. secretary, North Western provincial Council public service Commission – (this advance copy is kindly forwarded to 
you for necessary action) 
Appendix
(Section 280 of Chapter XIX)
       Name with initials : .................................... 
       Address                 : ...........................................       
  ........................................... 
       date  : ................................................... 
secretary to the public service Commission 
through head of department/ Institution 
through Appointing Authority 
through secretary to ministry
........................................................................................................................................
Appeal made against promotions

<!-- page 83 -->

83A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
1. particulars of the Appellant
 
1.1 Full Name : ................................................................................................... 
1.2 private telephone No. : ................................................................................. 
1.3 service : ....................... Class : ............... Grade : .................. 
1.4 post : .................................................................................................. 
1.5 present Workstation : .......................................................................... 
1.6 department / Institution : ........................................................................... 
1.7 ministry : .......................................................................... 
02. details on decision / order on which the appeal was based
2.1 by whom the decision / order on promotion was made (state the designation of the authority who made the 
decision.)
 …………………………………………………………..
2.2   State briefly as to what decision / order was made by the above authority on the promotion. 
 ………………………………………………………………………..
2.3 the date on which the Appellant received the decision / order on the promotion.  
 ......................................................................................................... 
2.4 Certified copies of letters containing the decision / order on the promotion have been attached as following 
Annexes: 
      Annex (1) .................................................................................................. 
      Annex (2) ...................................................................................................
03. relief sought by the Appellant by the submission of appeal ..............................................................................................
............................................... ............................................................................................................................................. 
.............................................................................................................................................................................................
04. reasons/ facts given by the Appellant for seeking the relief stated under 03 above 
4.1 ................................................................................................................................ 
4.2 ............................................................................................................................... 
4.3 ................................................................................................................................ 
4.4 ................................................................................................................................ 
4.5 Certified copies of written facts in support of the above reasons / facts have been attached as following 
Annexes.
  Annex (1)............................................................................................................
                     Annex (2) ............................................................................................................. 
                     Annex (3) .............................................................................................................
5.  declaration of the Appellant
 I declare that all the information above is true and accurate to my knowledge and that I am well aware of the fact that the 
intentional furnishing of false and incorrect information will by itself lead to the dismissal of the appeal and be subject 
to the disciplinary action.
   signature : .............................. 
   Name : .............................     
  designation : .....................
 

<!-- page 84 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
84A
6. observations / recommendations of the head of department / Institution …………………………….
 my observations on the above appeal are as follows.
 1 …………………………………………………..
 2 ……………………………………………………
 3 ……………………………………………………….
 4 …………………………………………………………
Accordingly, I recommend granting relief sought by the Appellant is suitable./ not suitable. 
        signature : .............................. 
        Name : .............................. 
        designation: .............................. 
7. observations / recommendations of the Appointing Authority ...............................................................,
 my observations on the above appeal are as follows:
 1........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 2........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 3........................................................................................................................................................................ 
 4........................................................................................................................................................................
 Accordingly, I recommend granting relief sought by the Appellant is suitable. /not suitable. 
        signature :............................... 
        Name :............................... 
        designation :.........................
08. observations / recommendations of the secretary to the ministry .....................................................,
 my observations on the above appeal are as follows:
  1........................................................................................................................................................................ 
  2........................................................................................................................................................................ 
  3........................................................................................................................................................................ 
  4........................................................................................................................................................................
 Accordingly, I recommend granting relief sought by the Appellant is suitable./ not suitable. 
        signature :............................... 
        Name :............................... 
        designation :.......................... 
Copy
01.  secretary, North Western provincial Council public service Commission – (this advance copy is kindly forwarded to 
you for necessary action) 

<!-- page 85 -->

85A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Appendix 21
(Section 288 of Chapter XX) 
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of the appointments and promotions of 
the officers in the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
se.No. date Name of the 
officer
National 
Identity Card 
Number of 
the officer 
service, 
Class, 
Grade 
designation Nature of the appointment Weather a 
promotion 
Casual temporary Contract permanent 
Appendix 22
 (Section 288 of Chapter XX)
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of public officers dismissed from service 
in the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
se.No. Name of the 
officer
service, Class, 
Grade, Post NIC Number
reasons for 
dismissal in 
brief
date of 
dismissal
File 
No. remarks

<!-- page 86 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
86A
Appendix 23
 (Section 288 of Chapter XX)
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of public officers who have resigned 
from service in the North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
srl. No. Name  of the  officer service, Class, 
Grade, post NIC Number reasons for 
resignation
date of 
resignation
File 
No. remarks
Appendix 24 
(Section 288 of Chapter XX)
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of the officers who have vacated the post 
in the North Western Provincial Council Public service 
se.No. Name of the Officer service, Class, 
Grade & post
NIC Number 
officer
date of Vacation 
of post
date of the 
Notice issued remarks

<!-- page 87 -->

87A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Appendix 25 
(Section 288 of Chapter XX) 
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of officers in the North Western 
Province under interdiction and those sent on compulsory leave 
srl. No. Name of officer
service, 
Class, Grade 
& post
NIC Number of 
officer
Whether an 
interdiction
Whether a 
compulsory 
retirement
reasons for 
such action 
in brief
remarks
Appendix 26
(Section 288 of Chapter XX) 
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of the retired officers in the North 
Western Provincial Public Service 
srl. No. Name of officer service, Class, 
Grade & post
NIC Number of 
officer
reasons for retirement date of 
retirement
remarks
optional 
retirement
Compulsory 
retirement

<!-- page 88 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
88A
Appendix 27
 (Section 288 of Chapter XX)
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of the officers in the North Western 
Provincial Council Public Service those retired for general inefficiency 
srl. No. Name of the officer service, Class, 
Grade & Post
NIC Number of 
the officer
reasons for 
retirement in 
brief
date of 
retirement remarks
Appendix 28 
(Section 288 of Chapter XX)
Register to be maintained by the authority with delegated power in respect of officers in the North Western 
Provincial Public Service those retired as a merciful alternative to dismissal from service
se.No. Name of the officer service, Class, 
Grade & post 
NIC No. of 
the  officer
reasons for 
retirement in brief
date of 
retirement remarks

<!-- page 89 -->

89A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
Appendix 29
(Section 288 and 289 of Chapter XX) 
Biannual Report on variation of office staff 
submitted by the Authority with delegated power 
to the Chief Secretary 
From the date of ……………. To ……………….
New Appointments
Number of 
promotions 
Number of 
dismissal 
Number of 
resignations 
Number 
of 
vacation 
of posts
Number of 
retirements 
Number of 
interdictions 
Number of 
compulsory 
leave Casual temporary Contract permanent 
signature:
Name:
post: 
date:
(head of the department)
Appendix 30
(Section 288 and 290 of Chapter XX) 
Register to be maintained in respect of overall office staffs in every office/institute in the North Western Provincial 
Public Service 
 se.no.
date of commencement of 
employment in the office/institute 
by the officer 
Name of the 
Officer 
National 
Identity Card 
No. 
post
the method and date 
on which the officer has  
resigned from the office/
institute 
method date
 

<!-- page 90 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
90A
Appendix 31
(Section 288 of Chapter XX)  
Register of officers in the North Western Provincial Public Service those released from service temporarily or 
permanently 
se.No. Name and N.I.C. 
No. of the officer
service, Class, 
Grade & post 
reason for 
release and 
the name of 
the institute 
to which the 
officer has 
been released 
due date to 
be reported to 
duty 
signature of 
the subject 
officer and 
date 
signature 
of the staff 
officer and 
date 
Appendix 32
(Sub Section 99 of Chapter XX)
secretary, 
North Western provincial Council public service Commission
………………………………………………………………
(through head of the department/ ministry to the secretary) 
Application  under the North Western provincial public service 
 
Application for  expressing preference to serve under  North Western Provincial  Council Public Service
1. Name in Full of the officer: mr ./mrs./miss/ ………………………………
           (mention the name  appeared  in the Appointment  Letter ) 
2. If the name  has been changed the amended  name : ………………………………..
3. service : ……………………………….. Grade: ……………………….
4. Name and address of the present working place : …………………………………………
5. permanent  private  address:………………………………………….
6. date of birth:……………………………………
7. date of first appointment  and the name of the post: …………………….
8. department /ministry of first appointment : …………………………..

<!-- page 91 -->

91A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
9.  services/grades and posts/dates of promotions in the public service and provincial Council public service:
Post held From – up to Working places
1.
2.
3.
10. state whether you joined the North West provincial Council public service after being duly discharged from the public 
service or another provincial council public service:
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………..
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………..
 ………………………………………………………………………………………………….
11. The Ministry/Department of the North West Provincial Council and the address of the office first joined the provincial 
council public  service:
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………  
12. Have you submitted applications for absorbing into the North West Provincial Council public service before? If so, give 
details including date of submission of such application:
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
13. Have you submitted an application for absorbing into the North West Province Public Service before? If so, give the 
details including the date of submission of such application:
 ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
14. If not so submitted give reasons for that:
 ..............................................................................................................................................................................................
..............................................................................................................................................................................................
.........................................................................
 I state that the above facts are true. I further certify that I wish to be absorbed into the North Western provincial Council 
public service subject to the existing and future conditions of the North Western provincial Council public service and 
declare that this consent cannot be changed later.
 ........................................
 signature of the Applicant.
 my No.: ....................................
 secretary,
 ministry of ............................................................,
 North Western province. 

<!-- page 92 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'01
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 01.09.2024
92A
I hereby submit the application of expressing preference for absorbing mr./mrs./miss. …………………………….. who 
works in this department / institution  into the North Western provincial Council public service. I also certify that I have 
compared it with his/her personal file and am personally satisfied that the particulars in the application are completely 
correct.
Signature and Official Seal of the Departmental Head: ......................................
date: ...................................
my Number:.......................................
secretary,
provincial Council public service Commission, 
North Western province
recommended and forwarded. 
Signature and official seal of the Secretary to the Ministry: .................................
date:..............................
eoG 09-0001
prINted At the depArtmeNt oF GoVerNmeNt prINtING,  srI LANKA.