

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2897  
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2894
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"139 – 2019 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'08'30
No. 2,139 –  fRiday ,  august 30, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th september, 2019 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th september, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer.
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2891 - B 81555- 5,403 (08/2019)
Note.–  finance Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 
august 16, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2892
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2893
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner general Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner general of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner general of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. Moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
general of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner general of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. Breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like Bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. Marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
Make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner general of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2894
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
MataLE  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out 
in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the Muslim Marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only Muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Muslim Marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
30.09.2019.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 05th august, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  Application 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Matale ukuwela Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of 
ukuwela area of Matale south division
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, Matale.
08–1009

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2895
AmENDmENT Of CLOSING DATE Of APPLICATIONS fOR RECRuITmENT Of REGISTRAR 
Of mARRIAGE, bIRTh AND DEATh Of ThE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
mATARA DISTRICT 
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, 
for the division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in Notice No. 06-776 in the Gazette No. 
2130 of 28.06.2019 is extended as 23.09.2019.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Matara Welipitiya Post of Birth and death Registrar of udukawa and 
Post of Marriages Registrar of Weligam 
Koralaya division (general)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, Matara.
Matara akuressa additional Marriages Registrar of Weligam 
Koralaya (akuressa) division (general)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, Matara.
Matara Hakmana Post of Birth and death Registrar of Kebiliyapola 
and Post of Marriages Registrar of Kandabada 
Pattuwa division (general)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, Matara.
08–1100
––––––––––––––––––––
AmENDmENT Of CLOSING DATE Of APPLICATIONS fOR RECRuITmENT Of 
REGISTRAR Of  mARRIAGE,  bIRTh AND DEATh Of ThE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
GALLE DISTRICT
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, 
for the division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in Notice No. 05-820 in the Gazette No. 
2126 of 31.05.2019 is extended as 30.09.2019.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
galle Niyagama Post of Birth and death Registrar of Pitigala 
division and Post of Marriage Registrar of 
Bentara Walallawita Koralaya division (general)
district secretary/additional 
Registrar general, district 
secretariat, galle.
08–1098

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2896
AmENDmENT Of CLOSING DATE Of APPLICATIONS fOR RECRuITmENT Of 
REGISTRAR Of muSLIm mARRIAGE Of ThE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
mATARA  DISTRICT 
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Muslim Marriage Registrar, for the 
division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in Notice No. 06-777 in the Gazette No. 2130 of 
28.06.2019 is extended as 23.09.2019.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Matara Welipitiya
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of 
Watagedaramulla area of Weligamkoralaya 
division 
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, Matara.
Matara Matara
Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of 
Wellabada Pattuwa and fourgravets of Bazaar 
division 
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, Matara.
08–1099
––––––––––––––––––––
AmENDmENT Of CLOSING DATE Of APPLICATIONS fOR RECRuITmENT Of 
REGISTRAR Of muSLIm mARRIAGE Of ThE REGISTRAR GENERAL'S  DEPARTmENT 
GALLE DISTRICT 
IT is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Muslim Marriage Registrar, for the 
division appearing in the following schedule which was published by me in Notice No. 05-821 in the Gazette No. 2126 of 
31.05.2019 is extended as 30.09.2019.
02. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2897
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat  Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
galle galle four gravets Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of galle 
district division of gintota area
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, galle.
galle galle four gravets Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of galle 
district division of Kurunduwatta/gintota area
district secretary/additional Registrar 
general, district secretariat, galle.
08–1101
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE 
Recruitment of the Trainees for the Public health midwife Training of Para medical Service - 2019
aPPLicatioNs are called from eligible sri Lankan citizens to recruit trainees to the following training course of Para 
Medical service of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine. applications should be submitted only 
through the official web site of the Ministry of Health (www.health.gov.lk)
Service Name of the 
training 
course
Training Period The medium in which 
the training should be 
followed
Number of 
Trainees to be 
Recruited
Paramedical service Public Health 
Midwife
1 1/2 years including the 06 
months training in the field
sinhala/tamil 850
taBLE-01
02. Educational qualifications and other specific qualifications relevant to the post :
Training 
Course
G.C.E.(O/L) qualifications G.C.E.(A/L) qualifications Other specific 
qualifications relevant for the 
training course
Public Health 
Midwife
should have passed six subjects 
including English language with 
credit Passes for sinhala/tamil 
language, Mathematics, science 
and one other subject in not more 
than two sittings at the g.c.E. 
(o/L) examination
should have passed 03 
subjects from Bio science, 
Physics, agriculture and 
chemistry in one sitting at the 
g.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
either in 2015, 2016 or in 2017
1. only females can apply. 
2. should be 4 feet and 10 inches 
or above in height. 
3. should be unmarried and should 
not get married during the 
period of training. students 
who are engaged in the service 
at the end of the theoretical 
training should also not get 
married until they are attached 
to the formal training and 
granted appointments.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2898
3. Particulars Specific to the training course :
3.1. candidates should be not less than 18 years and
not more than 30 years of age as at the closing 
date of applications. applications are called 
from those who passed three subjects from Bio 
science, Physics, agriculture and chemistry 
at the g.c.E ( a/L) examination one sitting in 
2015, 2016 or 2017 and satisfy other relevant 
qualifications.
3.2  Recruitments will be made from the candidates 
who have satisfied the qualifications in terms of 
the 
scheme of Recruitment for the post of Public 
Health Midwife of Para Medical service and 
amendments made thereto from time to time and 
based on the Z score obtained at the 
g.c.E. (a/L) 
examination.
 3.3. the total number to be recruited from the island 
will be divided in proportion to the population in 
each district and then the number recruited from 
each district will be determined.
 3.4. thereafter the number to be recruited from 
each district will be divided in proportion to 
the number of applicants who apply from the 
respective district in each year and have satisfied 
the minimum educational qualifications, and then 
number of recruits from the respective districts in 
each year will be determined.
 3.3. General Information :
 3.3.1. should be a sri Lankan citizen.
 3.3.2. Every candidate should be physically 
fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
 3.3.3. Should be physically fit to discharge 
the duties of the post.
 3.3.4. should be excellent in character.
 3.3.5. Should be fit physically and mentally
 3.3.6. you should agree to serve at least 
10 years if a permanent appointment 
is granted 
in the Public service or 
Provincial Public service after the 
training.
3.3.7. you should have been a permanent 
resident of the district for three 
consecutive years immediately prior 
to the closing date of applications 
i.e. 27.09.2019. one of the following 
documents should be produced to 
confirm the residence.
(i)  you should have been a resident
of the district for three continuous
years immediately prior to
27.09.2019. The Certificate of
residence issued by the 
grama
Niladhari and countersigned by the
divisional secretary.
Note:- Where any candidate is unable to prove 
the residence during the preceding 3 
years due to employment of his/her 
father or mother in a transferrable service 
of the 
government or of Provincial 
Public service or of a state corporation 
or due to any other unavoidable reason, 
the decision of the 
secretary of Ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine will be final, if he/she provides 
acceptable reasons.
3.3.8. Where the number of vacancies set 
for a particular district cannot be 
filled by the eligible applicants of the 
respective district, such vacancies 
will be redistributed among all 
other districts, in proportion to the 
population of each district.
4.
  Other Facts :
4.1. this course is a full-time course. therefore,
students who follow any full time course 
conducted by a university, any other government 
institute or under the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine on week days 
and saturday mornings shall not apply for this. 
if any does so and it is revealed subsequently 
the applicant will be withdrawn from the course/
dismissed from the post and all the expenses 
incurred by the government until then will be 
recovered from him/her. 
if any person who is 
following a full time course at a university 
wishes to apply for this, he/she shall comply 
with the following conditions. 
applications of 
the candidates who have registered for the full 
time courses conducted under the Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine shall 
be rejected.
 4.2. if you have registered for a full time course at 
any university or any other government institute 
you shall get your registration cancelled as at 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2899
the date you are registered for this course. if you 
have registered with a university you will be 
considered as a university student even though 
you are not attending the lectures or have not 
attended the lectures. so that such applicants 
should also get their registration cancelled. you 
should be able to provide evidence in writing 
in proof of the cancellation of your registration 
where necessary.
 4.3. if you have completed a degree in any university, 
the effective date of such degree should be a date 
prior to the date of recruitment to the course.
4.4 Even though you had not registered for 
a course conducted by a university or 
under the Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine by 27.09.2019; 
if you 
have registered for above courses 
subsequently, you shall get such 
registration cancelled before you register for the 
above training course.
 4.5. in case a candidate who has already registered for a 
full time course under Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine is selected for the above 
course, such candidate will be registered only if 
he/she repays the sum of the agreement entered 
into in relation to the previous training, and 
all allowances he/she received and leaves the 
training concerned.
 4.6. it should be strictly noted that no section 
contained in this Gazette notification implies 
to admit you compulsory to the course applied 
for even if all the above conditions have been 
fulfilled. It should also be noted even if you have 
satisfied the above conditions you are not eligible 
for the above course in any respect if you have 
not obtained a sufficient Z score to be eligible or 
if you have not fulfilled any other condition.
 4.7. Educational qualifications and other all 
qualifications should be fulfilled in all respects by 
the closing date of applications i.e. 27.09.2019.
5.
 The method of application :
5.1 candidates shall apply for the above training
course via the official website of the Ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
(www.health.gov.lk). They are required to fill 
and submit the online application on the website. 
Instructions for filling the application form are 
available on the online application form.
 5.2. applicants should pay an amount of Rs.300 at 
any branch of Bank of ceylon so as to credit to 
the account No. 7041318 “ director general of 
Health services, collection of Examination fee” 
of thaprobane Branch of Bank of ceylon. this 
fee will not be refunded under any circumstance. 
it is not allowed to transfer this examination fee 
to any other examination.
 5.3. it is not required to post a copy of the application 
uploaded by you to the Ministry. However, keep 
with you safely the code containing 5 numbers 
you receive after uploading the application for 
easy retrieval of printout letter. 
you shall get a 
printout of the successfully uploaded online 
application 
and place your signature at the 
relevant place in the application and get your 
signature attested. (
see section 6)
Note: If you encounter any problem in filling the 
application you may contact the human 
Resource management and Coordination 
Division of the ministry of health, Nutrition and 
Indigenous medicine from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m. 
on week days on Telephone No. 0112693955.
6.  The attestation of the applicants signature :
6.1. the signature of the applicant should be attested
by an officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service 
/ an officer in Educational Administrative Service 
/ an officer in Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service / 
a 
government Principal / a Justice of the Peace 
/ an Attorney of Law or an officer who holds a 
permanent and pensionable post and draws a 
salary not less than Rs. 512,148.
 6.2. applications of the employees who serve in the 
Public service or semi government institutions 
should be sent through the respective Head of 
department. and it should be noted that this is 
an external recruitment.
 6.3. the applications that are not complying with 
the above terms or incomplete will be rejected 
without any notice.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2900
7. if you are called for the interview you shall submit the
following documents :
 7.1. Out of the applicants those who have satisfied 
the minimum educational qualifications, 
according to the online applications which the 
applicants have successfully uploaded, only a 
selected number of applicants will be called for 
the interview based on a priority list prepared 
according to the Z score .
a general interview 
will be held by a board of interview appointed by 
the 
secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine. the interview board 
will check the qualifications and physical fitness 
prescribed for the post by the 
service Minute and 
this Gazette notification. Applicants shall submit 
the Originals of the following documents at the 
interview.
 7.2. Printed copy of the uploaded application (with 
the signature) duly attested
7.3. Birth Certificate
 7.4. g.c.E. ( a/L) result sheet with the Z- score 
(issued by the Examinations department)
 7.5. g.c.E ( o/L) results sheet (issued by the 
Examinations department)
 7.6. National identity card which is issued by 
department for Registration of Persons, or valid 
passport or driving license.
 7.7. Receipt obtained for the payment to the Bank.
 7.8. Certificate of proving residence issued by the 
grama Niladari counter signed by the divisional 
secretary.
 7.9. A formal affidavit signed over a stamp at the 
value of Rs 50 in the presence of a Justice of the 
Peace to confirm that the applicant is not married.
 7.10. a solemn declaration of the candidate that he/
she has not registered for or attending any 
other course conducted by any 
university or 
government institute/ Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
Note:
(a) in addition to the originals of the documents
mentioned from (7.3) to (7.7) above, true copies
of the originals certified by the applicant himself / 
herself should be brought to the interview.
(b) secretary to Ministry of Health, Nutrition and
indigenous Medicine shall decide the number of
recruits and the number of applicants to be called
for the interview based on the capacity of the
training schools and service requirements.
(c) any section herein does not mean that all who
are called for the interview are recruited and it
should not be understood so.
(d)  following the interview, information of the
selected candidates will be published on
the website http://www.health.gov.lk and the
candidates are not informed personally.
8.
  Scheme of training :
8.1. applicants selected from the interview will
be admitted to training schools to follow the 
relevant training course. Period of the course 
is 1 1/2 years including the field training of 06 
months and the course should be followed in 
sinhala / tamil Medium.
8.2 trainees who are admitted to the training schools 
will be subject to the rules and regulations which 
are effective in the training schools and the orders 
imposed by the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine from time to time.
8.3 training of those who fail the prescribed 
examinations, whose work and conduct are not 
satisfactory or who fail to adhere to relevant 
conditions of examination and conditions of 
leave of the training school or whose educational 
and other qualifications are found to be false, 
may be terminated at any time without any 
compensation.
8.3 a monthly allowance will be paid to the 
trainees during the training period in terms of 
the provisions of Public 
administration circular 
03/2016. (schedule V)
8.5 at the time he/she is admitted to the training 
school, he/she should enter into an agreement 
and surety bond with the 
director general of 
Health services that he/she will complete the 
training successfully, not abandon the training 
and service in the relevant post in the public 
service /provincial public service for a minimum 
period of 10 years if appointment is granted after 
completing the said training. 
if he/she resigns 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2901
from the training, abandon the training, or his/
her training is terminated as per above 8.3 or fails 
to serve in the relevant post for a period of 10 
years after appointment, he/she should refund 
the Ministry of Health Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine the allowance paid to him / her during 
the period of training. if not, legal action will 
be taken to recover the said amount as per the 
agreement.
 8.6 applicants who apply for Public Health Midwife 
training should be unmarried as at the closing 
date of applications and should remain unmarried 
during the period of training.
9.  Terms of engagement in the Service :
 9.1 government is not bound to grant permanent 
appointments at the end of the training. However, 
the candidates will be considered for appointing 
to a post in class iii of the post concerned on 
the basis of the merit obtained at the final 
examination of the training to fill the vacancies 
remaining after making the transfers of senior 
officers, according to the priority list of vacancies 
prepared based on the vacancies exist as at the 
date of completion of the training.
  candidates selected are subject to appointment to 
serve in any part of sri Lanka based on existing 
vacancies.
 9.2. if appointment is granted at the end of the 
training, salaries will be paid in terms of the 
provisions of the Public administration circular 
No 03/2016.
 9.3. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the 
particulars of education and other qualifications 
in the application. If the above certificates are 
proved to be false after recruitment to the training 
or after appointment, action will be taken to refer 
the case to the criminal investigation department 
for taking legal action / to cancel the appointment, 
to dismiss him/her from the training / post, and to 
enter his / her name into the black list of those 
who are not permitted to be reemployed in the 
Public service after taking legal action against 
him / her. action will be taken to recover the 
allowance paid to him / her during the training 
period, expenses incurred by the government, 
and the amount of the agreement and surety 
Bond.
 9.4. selected applicants should submit themselves 
for a medical examination during the first month 
of the training to certify that the applicant is 
physically and mentally fit to follow the course 
and to serve in any part of the island and if an 
applicant is found to be unfit from the medical 
examination he / she will be disqualified from the 
training.
 9.5. all persons selected as above will be subjected 
to provisions of the Establishments code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, 
rules, regulations and orders imposed by the 
Public service commission regarding the Public 
service, provisions of the service minutes, 
financial Regulations, circulars and instructions 
of the government and orders imposed and 
amendments made thereto from time to time.
 9.6. this Ministry is not bound to provide hostel 
facilities in the training schools for the applicants 
recruited for the training. if such facilities 
provided, rent assessed for a housing room, 
water and electricity bills will be charged.
 9.7. you have no right to engage in trade union 
activities or private practice during the period of 
training. and, if an appointment is granted to the 
post concerned at the end of the training, those 
who are appointed to a post, not approved for the 
private practice have no right to engage in the 
private practice. if it is found to have done so, 
legal action will be taken.
 9.8. if any problem arises regarding recruitment to 
the training or any matter covered or not covered 
by this Gazette notification, the decision of the 
secretary of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicines will be final. In case of any 
inconsistency between the sinhala, tamil and 
English texts, the text in sinhala will prevail.
 WaSaNtha Perera, 
 secretary.
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition & 
 indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine
“suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo-10,
05th august, 2019.
08-808

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'08'30
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2019
2902
Revision 
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
Limited/Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka 
Accountants' Service - 2017/2018
SECTION 1 and Sections 5(a) and (b) of the notification on Limited/Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade III of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service - 2017/2018 published Notice No. 08-208 under Part I : Section (IIA) in the 
Gazette of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 2135 dated 02.08.2019, are revised hereby in the following 
manner. 
1. Date of examination. – Examination will be held in November, 2019 only in colombo by the commissioner 
general of Examinations. the Public service commission reserves the right to postpone/cancel the Examination. 
accordingly, in the application, the town in which the applicant expects to sit for the examination shall only be 
colombo. action will be taken to hold the examination in colombo for the applicants who have already applied for Jaffna. 
5.  (a) For the officers appointed under open stream, this post is permanent and pensionable. You are subjected to 
the policy decisions taken by the government on the pension scheme to which you are entitled, in future. you 
are required to make contributions to the Widows'/Widowers' and orphans' Pension scheme. accordingly, 
you should make contributions as prescribed by the government from time to time. 
  For the officers appointed under limited stream, this post is permanent and pensionable. You are required to 
make contributions to the Widows'/Widowers' and orphans' Pension scheme. 
 (b) The officers who are appointed under open stream shall be subjected to a probation period of three years 
and the officers who are appointed under limited stream shall be subjected to an acting period of one year. 
Further, they should pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the officers of the Sri Lanka 
accountant's services within 03 years from the date of appointment. 
N. B.– No change shall occur in the date prescribed for fulfillment of qualifications (02.08.2019) and the 
closing date of applications (02.09.2019) due to this revision and the applicants, who have already 
submitted applications, are not required to re-submit their applications. 
on the order of the Public service commission, 
 J. J. 
rathNaSiri, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of Public administration, disaster Management and 
 Livestock development. 
colombo, 
22nd august, 2019.
08–1112
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.