

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 10.75  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  June 17, 2005
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 15th June, 2005]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SAUMYAMOORTHI  THONDAMAN
MEMORIAL  FOUNDATION
ACT,  No.  19  OF  2005

<!-- page 2 -->

Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
1
Short title.
[Certified on 15th June, 2005]
L.D.—O. 52/2004.
A N   ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A  FOUNDATION  CALLED
THE  SAUMY AMOORTHI  THONDAMAN  MEMORIAL  FOUNDATION ; TO
SPECIFY  ITS OBJECTS  AND  POWERS ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS
CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Saumyamoorthi Thondaman
Memorial Foundation Act, No. 19  of 2005
PART I
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  SAUMY AMOORTHI  THONDAMAN
M EMORIAL  FOUNDA TION
2. (1) There shall be established a Foundation, in order
to perpetuate the memory of the late Mr. Saumyamoorthi
Thondaman to be called “The Saumyamoorthi Thondaman
Memorial Foundation”, (hereinafter referred to as “the
Foundation”).
(2) The Foundation shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
3. (1) The Foundation shall be administered by a Board
of Management, (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting of :—
(a) the Minister in charge of the subject of Plantation
Infrastructure ;
(b) the Leader of the Opposition ;
(c) Mr. Arumugam Thondaman during his life time, and
thereafter the eldest surviving descendent of the late
Mr. Saumyamoorthi Thondaman:
Establishment of
the
Saumyamoorthi
Thondaman
Memorial
Foundation.
Board of
Management of
the Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
Provided however that if Mr. Arumugam
Thondaman  becomes for any period an ex-officio
member of the Board, the eldest surviving
descendent of the late Mr. Saumyamoorthi
Thondaman shall during such period serve as a
member of the Board :
Provided further that in the event of the eldest
surviving descendent  being unwilling or unable to
serve as  a member of the Board the next eldest
surviving descendent shall serve as a member of the
Board ;
(d) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance or his representative;
(e) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the    subject of Plantation Infrastructure
or his representative ;
(f) the General Secretary of the Ceylon Workers
Congress or his representative ;
(g) two persons appointed by Mr. Arumugam
Thondaman during his lifetime and thereafter by
the Board, from among persons of recognized
competence or eminence,  dedicated and committed
to upgrading the living conditions, cultural and
social development of the community.
(2) (a) A member appointed under paragrah (g) of
subsection (1) may resign from office by a  letter in that
behalf addressed to the Board.
(b) A member appointed under paragraph ( g) of
subsection (1)  may, for reasons assigned, be removed from
office at any time by the Board.

<!-- page 4 -->

Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
3
 
(c) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) the
term of office of a member appointed under paragraph (g) of
subsection (1) shall be three years from the date of his
appointment.
(d) A member appointed under paragraph (g) of subsection
(1), who vacates office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible
for re-appointment.
(3) A member referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (d) and (e)
of subsection (1) shall hold office so long as such member
holds the office by virtue of which he is a member of the
Board.
(4) The Chairman of the Board shall be the Minister and
in the absence of the Minister from any meeting of the Board,
the members present at such meeting shall elect from among
themselves a Chairman for that meeting.
(5) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be five
members.
(6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), the Board
may regulate the procedure in regard to the meetings of the
Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.
(7) The Board may act notwithstanding a any vacancy
among its members or any defect in the appointment of any
member thereof.
4. The Seal of the Foundation —
(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the Board
may from time to time determine ;
(b) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board ;
(c) shall not be affixed to any document except with
the sanction of the Board and in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign the document
in token of their presence.
5. The objects of the Foundation shall be —
(a) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and co-
operation among all Sri Lankan communities ;
The objects of
the Foundation.
The Seal of the
Foundation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
(b) to promote and encourage inter - communal harmony
and social integration ;
(c) to promote the religious, educational, vocational,
social, political, economic, aesthetic and physical
development of Sri Lankans ;
(d) to enhance the knowledge and understanding of
Sri Lankans in the economic, political, educational,
cultural, social and aesthetic fields ;
(e) to improve the living conditions of any persons,
who are economically and socially disadvantaged,
including any improvment to their shelters and the
provision of other infrastructure facilities ;
(f) to encourage Sri Lankans to invest in appropriate
banks and financial institutions ;
(g) to establish relations with local and foreign
institutions which have similar objectives as those
of the Foundation ;
(h) to provide financial or other assistance to any person
engaged in any activity which is similar to any of
the objectives of the Foundation ;
(i) to organize seminars, workshops and training
programmes in Sri Lanka and abroad on economic,
political, educational, cultural and social fields ;
(j) to organize programmes for creating awareness
among the Sri Lankans on the human rights, duties
and access to justice ;
(k) to provide adequate facilities for the improvement
of sports and recreation capabilities of Sri Lankans ;
(l) to maintain and utilize the “Thondaman Cultural
Centre at Ramboda, the Thondaman Sports Complex
at Norwood and the Thondaman V ocational Training

<!-- page 6 -->

Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
5
Centre at Hatton” in order to secure the objects of
the Foundation and for any other purpose which the
Board may consider fit :
Provided however, that the Thondaman Cultural
Centre at Ramboda, Thondaman Sports Complex at
Norwood and Thondaman V ocational Training
Centre at Hatton shall not be used for any political
purpose ; and
(m ) to do all such other acts as may be necessary or
conducive for the attainment of any or all of the
above objects.
6. The Board shall in the name of the Foundation  have
the power —
(a) to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind ;
(b) to take or hold any property movable or immovable
by way of purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and to sell, mortgage, lease,
rent, grant, convey, devise, assign, exchange or
otherwise dispose the same ;
(c) to give grants, endowments or scholarships for
economic, educational, cultural, social, aesthetic
and sports development and vocational
development purposes ;
(d) to obtain loans on such terms and conditions as
may be approved by the Board for the purpose of
carrying out the objects of the Foundation ;
(e) to enter into or perform either directly or through
officers and servants or agents of the Foundation
authorized in writing in that behlaf, all such contracts
and agreements as may be necessary for the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers duties and
functions and carrying out the objectives of the
Foundation ;
(f) to charge fees for any services or facilities provided
by the Foundation ;
Powers and
functions of the
Foundation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
(g) subject to the provisions of this Act, to appoint and
employ officers and servants as may be necessary
for the carrying out of the objects of the Foundation
and remunerate them and to dismiss and exercise
disciplinary control over them ;
(h) to manage and maintain the Thondaman Cultural
Centre at Ramboda, Thondaman Sports Complex at
Norwood and Thondaman V ocational Training
Centre at Hatton and to levy charges for the use of,
or for the public viewing of such Centres or any part
thereof ;
(i) to invest funds belonging to the Foundation at the
discretion of the Board in any such investments as
are authorized by law for the investment of such
money, and to recall, re-invest, and vary such
investment, and to collect the income accruing from
such investments ;
(j) to appoint committees to assist the Foundation in
performance of its functions and achievement of its
objectives ; and
(k) to do all  things as are necessary for or conducive or
incidental to the carrying out of the objectives of
the Foundation.
7. Where the Foundation employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government for a specified
period, any period of service to the Foundation by that person
shall be regarded as service to the Government for the purpose
of discharging the obligations under such contract.
8. (1) The Board may appoint to the staff of the
Foundation such officers and servants as may be necessary
for the efficient discharge of its functions, on such terms and
conditions as may be determined by the Board from time to
time.
Service to the
Foundation
deemed to be
service to the
Government
for the purpsoe
of certain
contracts.
Staff of the
Foundation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
7
(2) At the request of the Board, any public officer may,
with the consent of that officer and the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Foundation for such period as may be determined by the
Board with like consent or be permanently appointed to such
staff.
(3) Where any public officer is temporarily appointed
to the staff of the Foundation, the provisions of subsection
(2) of section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,
No. 37 of 1991 shall mutatis mutandis apply to, and in
relation to, him.
(4) Where any public officer is permanently appointed to
the staff of the Foundation, the provisions of subsection (3)
of section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.
37 of 1991 mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation, to
him.
9. Where any immovable property of the State is required
for any purpose of the Foundation to be such property shall
be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or lease
may be made under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordiance
(Chapter 454) and accordingly the provisions of that
Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of such
property to the Foundation.
PART II
F
INANCE
10. (1) There shall be established a Fund called “The
Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation Fund”.
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “Fund”).
(2) A sum of rupees two hundred and seventy two million,
provided out of the Consolidated Fund of Sri Lanka, already
expended for the construction of the Thondaman Cultural
Centre at Ramboda, Thondaman Sports Complex at Norwood
and Thondaman V ocational Training Centre at Hatton, shall
be the initial capital of the foundation.
State property
immovable,
made available
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Foundation.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
Accounts and
audit.
(3) There shall be paid into the Fund —
(a) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Foundation in the exercise, performance and
discharge and of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act ;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
foundation, by way of donations, gifts or grants,
from any source whether in Sri Lanka or abroad ;
(c) any income, derived from the levy of fees for any
services or facilities provided by the Foundation ;
(d) any income derived from the levy of charges for the
public viewing and the use of the Thondaman
Cultural Centre at Ramboda, Thondaman Sports
Complex at Norwood and Thondaman V ocational
Training Centre at Hatton or any part thereof; and
(e) any income, investments or other receipts due to the
Foundation.
(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the Board in the exercise and discharge of its powers and
functions under this Act.
11 (1) The Board shall cause its books of accounts to be
balanced on the thirty first day of December in each year and
shall not later than the last day of February next following
prepare a profit and loss account and a balance sheet
containing a summary of the assets and liabilities of the Board
made up to the date aforesaid, prepared and signed by the
officer responsible for the preparation of such accounts  and
balance sheet.
(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Foundation.

<!-- page 10 -->

Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
9
12. The Foundation shall with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, be exempt from
the payment of any tax on the income or profits of the
Foundation to such  extent as is permitted in terms of the
Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000.
PART III
G
ENERAL
13. The Minister may from time to time give general or
special directions in writing to the Board as to the exercise of
the powers under this Act.
14. The Board shall, within a period of six months after
the closure of each financial year submit a report giving a
full account of the activities of the Foundation during those
years to the Minister who shall cause the report to be placed
before Parliament, prior to the end of the year next following
the year to which such report relates.
15. The Foundation shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
16. All members of the Board and staff of the Foundation
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code.
17. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie against any
member of the Board, officer or servant of the Foundation,
for any act which in good faith is done or purported to be
done by him under this Act, or on the direction of the Board
for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
Exemption of
Foundation from
taxes.
Directions.
Board’s report to
be placed before
Parliament.
Foundation
deemed to be a
Scheduled
Institution
within the
meaning of the
Bribery Act.
Members of
the Board
and officers
and servants
of the
Foundation
deemed to be
public servants.
Protection of
action taken
under this Act.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
(2) Any expense incurred by the Foundation in any suit
or prosecution brought by or against the Foundation before
any court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Foundation
and any costs paid to or recovered by the Foundation in any
such suit or prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the
Foundation.
(3) Any expense incurred by such person as is referred to
in subsection (1), in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done, by him under this Act, or on the direction
of the Board shall, if the Court holds that such act was done
in good faith, be paid out of the Fund unless such expense is
recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.
18. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board
may make rules for, and in respect of, all or any of the
following matters :—
(a) the terms and conditions of service, including
remuneration and disciplinary control of the staff of
the Foundation, grant of leave and other benefits to
them;
(b) the schemes of recruitment and procedures for
appointment and promotion of the staff of the
Foundation ;
(c) the annual programme and plan of work, the annual
budget, the annual report and accounts of the
Foundation and the manner in which such
programme and plan of work, budget, report and
accounts are to be prepared ; and
(d) such other matters or in respect of  which rules are
required or authorized by this Act to be made.
(2) Every rule made by the Board shall be approved by
the Minister and be published in the Gazette and shall come
into operation on the date of such publication or on such
later date as may be specified therein.
Rules.

<!-- page 12 -->

Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
11
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
20. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
“Ceylon Workers Congress” means a Trade union
registered under the Trade Union Ordinance
(Chapter 138) ;
“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council, Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
Authority created and established by or under any
law to exercise, perform and discharge powers,
duties and functions corresponding to or similar
to the powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed and discharged by the such Council or
Sabha.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 19 of 2005
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.