

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
187
187
wxl 1"797 - 2013 fmnrjdß 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'02'08
No. 1,797 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 08, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 189
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 01st March, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
February, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III of the Gazette No. 1,796 of 01.02.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
188
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
189
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KURUNEGALA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th March, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th January, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Polgahawela Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Dambadeni Hathpattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Kurunegala
Udapola Othota East Division.
02–233
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
190
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 11th March, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
17th January, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Galle Niyagama Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Benthara Walallawita Koralaya General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Galle
Naranowita  Division.
02–234
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
191
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 08th March, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
15th January, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Harispattuwa Rambuke Ela Division General, District Secretariat,
Kandy
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Udunuwara and Yatinuwara Division General, District Secretariat,
Pethiyagoda area Kandy
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Udunuwara and Yatinuwara Division General, District Secretariat,
Muruthagahamula area Kandy
02–295
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Promotion of Officers in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service to Special Grade
APPLICATIONS are hereby called for the posts which have fallen vacant in the approved cader in Special Grade indicated in Section 2,
para. 3 of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute.
02. As per provisions of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service minute No. 1,419/3 dated 14.11.2005, revised by the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1,422/23, 1,458/2 and 1,697/10 dated 09.12.2005, 14.08.2006 and 16.03.2011 promotions to special grade in relation
to the period from 01.07.2011 up to 01.07.2012.
03. Qualifications to be satisfied for promotion to Special Grade  :
(a) Shall have completed five years satisfactory service in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
(b) Shall have acquired the level "satisfactory" or above in annual performance report during the period preceding the date
of qualifying for promotion to special grade.
(c) Shall have satisfied the requirements prescribed as per the Sri Lanka Administrative Service minute No. 1,419/3 dated
14.11.2005 in para 14(i)d above.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
192
04. Method of promotions :
4.1 Recommendations for appointments to special grade shall be made after the observation received from a board of
selection consists of three members appointed by the Public Service Commission. A number of candidates' equivalent
to twice the number of existing vacancies shall be interviewed.
4.2 Promotion to special grade shall be made based on the total evaluation on the seniority of the officers. The seniority list
relevant to each date of promotion shall be prepared on the order of the seniority existed before the promotion of
officers who become qualified to be promoted on each date.
Officers who have satisfied qualifications as at 01.07.2011, 01.01.2012 and 01.07.2012 shall send their applications filled in
accordance with the specimen attached herewith, to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration through Secretary's o f
respective Ministries and Heads of Departments before 22.02.2013. Under no circumstance, application sent after above date shal l be
accepted and applications, which are incomplete and with false information, shall be rejected.
Those officers, who have been in the service up to the date on which they become qualified for promotions in relation to above
dates or after that date and possessed qualifications prescribed for promotions in para 4 above, but did not receive promotion even though
appeared for interview or who could not apply for promotion, shall apply for these promotion even though they are now retired.
Application form can be downloaded through www.pubad.gov.lk
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
24th January, 2013.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR PROMOTION OF OFFICERS IN CLASS I OF SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE TO SPECIAL GRADE
For office use only
S
Number of the Application
F
PART - (A) TO BE FILLED BY THE OFFICER.
01. Name :
1.1 Name in full : Miss/Mrs./Mr. :––––––––––––––.
1.2 Name indicated in the letter of appointment :––––––––––––––.
02. Number of the N. I. C. :––––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :––––––––––––––.
04. Private address :––––––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :
5.1 Residence :––––––––––––––.
5.2 Mobile :––––––––––––––.
06. 6.1 Post :––––––––––––––.
(Post hold at present/if retired post held the time of retirement)
6.2 If retired, state the date of retirement :––––––––––––––.
07. Ministry/Department :––––––––––––––.
08. Official Address :––––––––––––––.
09. 9.1 Official Telephone Number :––––––––––––––.
9.2 Official Fax Number :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
193
10. Date of appointments and promotions :
10.1 Date of appointment to SLAS Grade II/II (Class III)
10.2 Date of promotion to SLAS Grade II/I (Class II)
10.3 Date of promotion to SLAS Grade/Class I
(Certified copy of the formal letter of promotion to Grade/Class I should be attached as No. 10.3)
11. Periods of absence from service and deductions from service period as disciplinary punishments after promotion to Class I :
11.1 Service deduction due to obtaining of leave (Complete only if relevant) :
Serial Conditions applied in granting Duration Number of days by which the
No. approvals for leave service is deducted
To             From Y M D
(i) V:2:5:4 of Establishment Code
(ii) XII:16 of Establishment Code
(iii) Management Services Circular No. 10
(iv) Management Services Circular No. 33
(v) XII:36 of Establishment Code
(vi) Other (No pay leave)
Total No. of leave by which the service period is deducted
(Certified copies of letters by which the leave has been approved should be attached by numbering them as 11.1.i, 11.1.ii, 11.1.iii
etc., as applicable)
11.2 Deduction of the service on disciplinary grounds. (Complete only if relevant) :
Number of days by which the
Disciplinary Decision Duration in which the offence has been service period is deducted
committed as per charge sheet Y M D
(i) Deferring ................... salary increments
(ii) Others
Total No. of days by which the service period is deducted
(Certified copies of disciplinary decisions shall be attached by numbering them as 11.2.i, 11.2.ii etc. as applicable)
11.3 Total of 11.1 and 11.2 : Year :––––––––––––––, Month :––––––––––––––, Date :––––––––––––––.
11.4 The date after removing the period in 11.3 above out of the period from the date of appointment to Class I :––––––––––––.
12. The requirement of having earned salary increments within period immediately preceding 5 years :
12.1 Has/Has not* earned all salary increments** falling within 5 years immediately preceding the date on which the officer becomes
eligible for promotion. (Salary increments obtained under the Section XII:16:9, XII:16:10 and XII:36:1:4(i) and (ii) Establishment
Code are not accepted for the promotion).
* (Delete words inapplicable)
12.2 If the officer has not earned salary increments within the 5 years immediately preceding the date on which the officer becomes
eligible for promotion, the date of qualifications for promotion shall be re-calculated until such date on which the officer receives
fifth salary increment. Accordingly, the date on which the officer becomes eligible for promotion shall be** :.............
**(Attach the certified copies of 05 salary increment slips numbering them from 12.1 to 12.5).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
194
13. The requirement of not having subjected to a disciplinary punishment within the immediately preceding five years :
13.1 As per the personal file the officer has not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment within the 5 years immediately
preceding the date of qualifying for promotion. (This should be confirmed by the Head of Department by a written statement
- under Part "b" of the application).
13.2 If the officer has been subjected to a disciplinary punishment during the period mentioned in 13.1 and comments have been
made under 11.2 and further the date of promotion is also revised, such date is :......................
13.3 The revised date, if the date is revised as per 12.2 and 13.2 :..........................
14. The requirement of indicating in the annual performance report that the officers' work and conduct are satisfactory within t he
immediately preceding 5 years.
Five years immediately preceding the year in relation to the date on which the officer becomes eligible as per 12, 13 above sha ll be
indicated in the 1st Column of following table. Further certified copies of relevant 5 performance reports shall be attached.
Performance reports which have not been duly signed and selected by the relevant officer and the reports where more than one
alternative recommendation have been indicated in final evaluations shall not be accepted.
Year Final evaluation excellent/above average/ Whether relevant authority has signed/
satisfactorily/poor not signed
Each row and Column shall be filled in accordance with the performance evaluation report of each other.
15. The requirement of having fulfilled the qualification prescribed in 14(d) of the service minute :
15.1 15.2 15.3 15.4 15.5 15.6 15.7
Serial Name of the Post Field of The Whether that university Duration of the degree Effective
No. Graduate study University has been recognized by (starting date and date of the
Degree the University Grants ending date) degree
Commissions as a
University
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
(Certified copies of Degree certificate  and the detailed results (Transcript) sheet shall be attached as 15.1)
Application containing correct and all information from 01 to 15 above and certified copies of all documents required to be
attached, are hereby subjected as a file by numbering them consecutively and indicating the number relevant to the facts at the top
right corner of the each document.
–––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant Designation and
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
195
PART (b) - TO BE FILLED BY THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENTS
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs/relevant Ministry :
1. Particulars mentioned above by the officer are correct.
2. Matters relevant to No. 11, 12, 13 have been compared with particulars in the file. Accordingly, it is hereby certified that all
the particulars mentioned are correct, they have been submitted in perfect manner and further certified copies of all relevant
documents are hereby attached.
3. Whether action is being taken to commence disciplinary action against the officer or disciplinary action is being/is not
being taken.
3.1  If the answer is - "is being taken", the date on which the offence has been committed.
3.2  Date of issuance of the charge sheet by disciplinary authority.
4. Work/attendance/conduct of Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................... are satisfactory. Further the officer's performance, leade rship,
capability and the capacity to hold posts and responsibilities in relations to next promotion have been taken in to consideration.
Accordingly, it is hereby recommended to promote to officer to Special Grade of SLAS.
5. Application perfected correctly in each and every way and the file containing certified copies of relevant documents
which have been numbered consecutively  in accordance with each matter are sent herewith.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/Institution,
Designation and Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Note :- cross words in applicable.
P
ART (C) - TO BE FILLED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE RESPECTIVE MINISTRY
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs
1. I agree/do not agree  with the recommendations made by the Head fo Department/Institutions on the work and conduct of
Mr./Mrs./Miss .........................., officer in Class I of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
2. The works/conduct/special skill and pefromance of the officer have been duly evaluated.
It is hereby recommended * to promote Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... to Special Grade of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
*(Indicate reasons if the promotion is not recommended).
3. Application perfected correctly in each and every way and file containing certified copies of relevant documents which have
been numbered consecutively in accordance with each matter are sent herewith.
––––––––––––––,
Secretary,
Ministry of ––––––––––––––.
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––––.
02–313

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'02'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.02.2013
196
Amendment
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Vacancies in Grade 2-I of the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service
THE phrase "in paragraph 5.1.2 above" mentioned in the NB of the notice with regard to vacancies in Grade 2-I of the Sri Lanka Teacher
Educators' Service published in Gazette Notification No. 1,788 dated 07.12.2012 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, is
amended to read as "in paragraph 5.2 above".
S. M. GOTABHAY A JAYARA TNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
02–317
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.