

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1957
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"035 – 2017 wf.daia;= ui 31 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2017'08'31
No. 2,035 –  ThuRsday ,  augusT  31, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
aTTENTioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd september, 2017 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th september, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer (Acting)
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,034 of 25.08.2017 was not published.
1955-B 81203- 5,403 (08/2017)
Note.—  Rifai Thareeq association of sri Lanka (incorporation) (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the 
Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of august 25, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1956
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1957
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
mINISTRy Of EDuCATION
Selection of Candidates to follow the full Time 
(Internal) Course of Post Graduate Diploma in 
Education in Academic year – 2018
aPPLicaTioNs are invited to select candidates for 
the study of one-year full time (internal) Post graduate 
diploma in Education course during the academic year 
2018.
02. This course will be held in the universities of 
colombo, Peradeniya and Jaffna.
03. Language medium/ media in which the course will 
be conducted in each university are indicated below:
1. university of colombo - sinhala Medium and   
    Tamil Medium
2. university of Peradeniya - sinhala Medium
3. university of Jaffna - Tamil Medium 
application for the course can be made only in one 
medium.
04. Every candidate should confirm that he/she is 
holding the following qualifications:
 (i) should be a citizen of the democratic socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka.
 (ii) should not be more than 50 years of age as at 
22.09.2017.
 (iii) should be in good health physically and mentally 
and should possess a good character.
 (iv) should be a graduate of a recognized university 
or should hold a degree or another equivalent 
qualification obtained from another institute 
approved by the university grants commission 
or the Ministry of higher Education. 
 (v) should have obtained a permanent appointment 
and serving in a relevant post in the following 
services:
 (a) • Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service
  • Sri Lanka Private School Teachers’ Service
  • Sri Lanka Teachers’ Service
 (b) Sri Lanka Principals’ Service
 (c) Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service
 (d) sri Lanka Education administrative service
 (vi) should have completed a service of one year as 
a graduate in a post of the services indicated in 
Para. 04 (v) as at 22.09.2017 
N.B. (i) Teachers with National diploma in 
Teaching will be qualified to apply only 
if they have completed the five-year 
compulsory period of service according to 
the bond in relation to their appointment 
by 22.09.2017 and have obtained the 
qualification mentioned in 4(vi).
 (ii) applicants who are on study leave and 
serving under a bond will be qualified to 
apply only if they have completed the 
compulsory period of service indicated 
in the bond as at 22.09.2017 or have 
completed at least five (5) years out of the 
compulsory period.
 (iii) applicants who hold the Bachelor of 
Education degree will not be eligible to 
apply for following this course.
05. 
 05.1  method of Selection:
 (i) Every candidate should sit a written 
examination.
 (ii) Thrice the number of candidates, who 
will be selected for the course will 
be called for the interview, based on 
the merit order of marks obtained by 
candidates in the written examination.
 
 (iii) Marks will be allocated at the interview 
for the period of service in the relevant 
post/ posts of the service/services of 
the candidate as indicated in 4 (V) of 
the Gazette Notification.04 marks each 
for one year of service will be awarded.
Maximum marks provided for the 
service will be 40. Period of service of 
a candidate will be calculated using the 
date of assuming duties in the relevant 
post of his/her first appointment in 
the service from among the services 
indicated in 4 (V).

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1958
N.B.– The applicant should possess a continuous 
service in a post/ posts in a service/ 
services mentioned in 4 (V).
 (iv) The total of the marks obtained from 
the written examination and the marks 
obtained for the period of service will 
be treated as the final marks and the 
selection for the course will be made 
according to the order of such marks.
 (v) if disabled candidates have applied 
for the course,1% of the vacancies for 
candidates will be reserved for them.
 (vi) The number of candidates to be selected 
for the course will be decided according 
to accommodation facilities available in 
each university.
05.2  Written Examination :
 (i) The written examination for selection 
conducted by the commissioner general 
of Examinations will be held in sinhala and 
Tamil medium in colombo and Jaffna.
 (ii) candidates may appear for the Examination 
at a preferred center selected from the two 
centers indicated above and in a medium of 
language they prefer.
 (iii) c andidates should act in accordance with  the 
rules  and  regulations  related  to  the  Examination 
as published by the commissioner general of 
Examination.
 (iv) The Written Examination will consist of two 
question papers:
 (a) general Knowledge – 
  Question paper on current affairs, general 
Knowledge, information on Education and 
issues (Time : 01 hour);
 (b) aptitude Test – 
  Question Paper on Language ability, 
comprehension, Logic, arithmetical skills 
(Time : 01 hour 30 minutes)
05.3   Interview:
 (i) at  the  interview  candidates  should  substantiate 
that they are qualified to follow the course 
under Para. 04 in the Gazette Notification.
 (ii) candidates should submit to the interview 
board the documents required to confirm their 
period of service in the post/posts of a service/ 
services indicated in 4(v) in the Gazette 
Notification. Specially the date of assuming 
duties in the post should be substantiated at 
the interview. it will assist the candidate in 
obtaining the marks assigned for the period of 
service.
 (iii) Teachers who apply for the course from 
government registered Pirivenas and 
government approved private schools 
should submit a statement at the interview, 
obtained from the Manager/Manager of the 
Administrative Board certified as follows:
 
 (a) The teacher will be released for the course;
 (b) salaries will be paid to the teachers during 
the period of study of the course;
 (c) The teacher will be re-employed at the end 
of the course;
 (d) Another teacher will not be recruited to fill 
the vacancy of the relevant teacher during 
the period of his/her study;
 (e) The duties of the teacher will be distributed 
among the approved teaching staff of the 
school.
06. method of Submission of Applications:
 (i) applications should be prepared using both 
sides of a a4 paper in conformity with the given 
specimen form.
 (ii) The term, “an applicant visually impaired/ 
hearing impaired/having other special needs” 
should be written in red on the top left hand 
corner of the applications prepared for 
candidates who are visually impaired/hearing 
impaired/having other special needs.
 (iii) Payment of Examination Fees.– a sum of           
Rs. 900 should be paid as examination fees to 
the nearest post office and the receipt obtained 
should be affixed firmly in the cage provided 
for the purpose in the application. Post Master 
General has been notified by the Commissioner 
general of Examinations to make provisions 
to issue this receipt at all post offices from 
31.08.2017 to 22.09.2017. 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1959
 (iv) submission of applications:
 
 (a) The term “Post graduate diploma in 
Education (internal) Full Time course - 
2018’ should be written on the top left 
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application.
 (b) applications should be sent under the 
registered post to reach commissioner 
general of Examinations, sri Lanka 
department of Examinations, Evaluation 
and Testing service, Pelawatta, 
Battaramulla on or before 22.09.2017.
 (c) a  copy of the application should be handed 
over to the personal file of the applicant 
through the head of the department. if the 
applicant is selected to follow the course, it 
will assist in obtaining study leave.
 (v) Time table and the admission cards will be 
posted to the candidates and if any candidate 
does not receive his/her admission card at least 
07 days prior to the date of the Examination, he/
she should inform the commissioner general 
of Examinations, department of Examinations, 
Pelawatta, Battaramulla including the following 
information:
 (a) Name of Examination:
 (b) Candidate’s name in full:
 (c) address:
 (d) Post Office where fees were paid and receipt 
No :
 (e) date of posting the application:
 (f) Post office where the application was posted 
and receipt No:
 (vi) Refund of examination fees or transfer of fees 
for any other examination will not be made 
under any circumstances.
 (vii) incomplete applications will be rejected without 
further notification.
 (viii) Every candidate should substantiate his/her 
identity at the written examination using a valid 
identity card.
 (ix) The candidates will not be allowed to change 
the university after being selected to a particular 
university to follow the course.
 (x) if it is revealed that a particular candidate 
has not fulfilled the requirements as per the 
Gazette Notification even after the selection, 
the selection of such candidate is liable to be 
cancelled.
07. Study Leave.– 
study leave with full pay will be granted to the selected 
candidates to follow this course. Here, the Officers in 
sri Lanka Education administrative service, sri Lanka 
Teacher Educators’ Service, the holders of the Principal 
grades and Teachers serving in the staffs of National 
schools, Private schools and Pirivenas have to get their 
study leave approved by the secretary of the Ministry 
of Education while the approval of study leave of other 
officers should be done by the Secretary of Education of 
the relevant province.
08. bond.– 
candidates who are selected for the course are required 
to sign a security bond with the secretary of the Ministry of 
Education/Provincial secretary of Education that, he/she 
would upon successful completion of this course, serve in 
the department for a period recommended by the rules and 
regulations stipulated in the Establishments code of the 
democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
09. if any selected candidate fails to obtain the diploma 
Certificate within the stipulated period without successfully 
completing this course owing to reasons within his/her 
control, the salaries and allowances paid to him/her during 
the period of study leave should be fully recovered from 
him/her.
10. if the work, conduct and attendance of any student is 
found to be unsatisfactory during the period of study,such 
students will be removed from the course.
11. in the event of any inconsistency between sinhala 
and Tamil or English text of this Gazette Notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
 Sunil HettiaracHcHi,
 secretary,  
 Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
on 31st of august 2017.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1960
sPEciMEN aPPLicaTioN FoRM
Selection of candidateS to follow tHe full time (internal) courSe of PoSt graduate 
diPloma in education in academic Year – 2018
For Office Use
Medium applied for (Sinhala/
Tamil)
examination Center applied 
(Colombo/Jaffna)
Universities applied for (Colombo/Jaffna/Peradeniya)
N.b. Mention two Universities according to 
preference
01.
02.
01. (i) Name with initials in English capital letters (Surname first) Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
  Example:mr.Silva,A.b.C.
 (ii) Name in full (in English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
02. (i) (a) Official Address (In English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
  (b) Official Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
 (ii) (a) Private address (in English capital letters) :––––––––––––.
  (b) Private Telephone Number :––––––––––––.
 (iii) Location of school/institute serving (in English capital letters):-
Province District Zone
 (iv)  Nature of institute (government schools/Private schools/Pirivenas/other) :––––––––––––.
03. (i)  date of Birth :
  y ear :––––––––––––, Month :––––––––––––,  date :–––––––––––.
 (ii)  age as on 22.09.2017:
  y ears :––––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––, days :–––––––––––.
 (iii)  gender (Male/Female) :––––––––––––.
04.  details of degree :
Degree Period of study 
in the University 
(From…… To……)
Year of 
passing 
Degree
Date of 
validity of 
Degree
Degree 
subjects
Nature of 
the Pass 
Institute/
University
Degree 
(Internal/
External)
05. (i) (a)  Date of posting to the Sri Lanka Private Schools Teachers’ Service/Sri Lanka Parivenacharya Service/Sri 
Lanka Teachers’ Service: ……………………….
  (b)  date of assuming duties in the above service:……………………….
  (c)  current designation:…………………………

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1961
 (ii) (a)  Date of posting to the Sri Lanka Principals’ Service/Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service/Sri Lanka 
Education administrative service:………………………
  (b)  Date of assuming duties in the Sri Lanka Principals’ service/Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service/Sri Lanka 
Education administrative service:-  …………………………
 (iii) Period of service in a service/ services mentioned in 4v as at 22.09.2017 after obtaining the degree 
………………………. 
 (iv)   Total period of service in a service/ services mentioned in 4v as at 22.09.2017:-  
………………………
06.  details of Professional Training:
institute where the course was 
followed (Teachers’Training 
college/ National college of 
Education or other)
course (subject area)
duration of study of course in the institute
From To
07.  details of study Leave obtained:
Nature of Study 
Leave (With Pay/
Without Pay, 
Local/Foreign)
Reason for 
obtaining study 
leave
During which 
period of time
Duration of the Bond
(From……………….                          
To……………)
Whether the duration of 
the security bond has been 
completed or not
(if not, kindly mention the 
balance period ahead for 
completion of bond)
N.B.– It is compulsory to accurately complete the above chart with regard to the study leave obtained 
previously.
Note: Period of study of the National diploma in Teaching in a National college of Education will not be treated 
as study leave
08. (i) Whether any disciplinary action is pending against you?  yes/No
 (ii) if so, details relevant: ……………………
09. 
Receipt obtained by paying the fees 
should be affixed here
Receipt No:……………..  
date:…………………..
i certify that a sum of Rs……… (The sum in figures) was paid 
to………………… Post Office/Sub Post Office 
signature of the candidate: …………………………
date: …………………………….

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1962
10. Candidate’s Declaration:
 i hereby certify that all details indicated in this application are true and accurate and i am eligible to follow this course 
under paragraph 04 of the Gazette Notification dated 31.08.2017 and i am abiding by the rules and regulations for 
candidates stipulated in the Examination Act and also, I have affixed here a valid receipt obtained after paying the 
prescribed examination fee.   
 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Candidate’s Signature.
date :–––––––––––––. 
11. Recommendation pertaining to the release from the institute for the course:
(it is compulsory to complete this by the Principal/ President of NcoE/ Kruthyathikdri/ Manager of the administrative 
Board or head of institute):
if the above candidate is selected for following the course he/she can be released in consideration with the requirement 
of the study of a professional course/cannot be released.
       
   ––––––––––––––––––,
   signature of Principal/head of institute 
 and Official frank.   
date :–––––––––––––.                  
12. Recommendation of the Zonal director of Education on releasing the candidate to follow the course  :
 if the above named candidate is selected to follow this course, providing study leave for him/her is recommended /
not recommended, 
       
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Zonal director of Education                                     
 and Official Frank.
date :–––––––––––––.
08–1031
–––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of CENSuS AND STATISTICS 
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Senior 
Statisticians and Statisticians in the Department 
of Census and Statistics - 2013(2017) - II
IT is hereby notified that an Efficency Bar examination for 
officers belonging to the Senior Statistician and Statistician 
post will be held in december, 2017 by the department 
of Examinations, in accordance with the provisions of 
relevant approved scheme of recruitment. 
02.  (i) This examination will be held by the 
commissioner general of Examinations 
and candidates are bound by the rules and 
regulations stipulated by him in respect of 
holding this examination and issuance of results. 
The decision of the commissioner general 
of Examination will be the final decision with 
respect of holding examination and issuing 
results. 
 (ii) a set of rules and regulati ons for candidates is 
published separately in the Gazette notification. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1963
any candidate who violates these rules and 
regulations will be liable to a punishment 
imposed by the commissioner general of 
Examinations. 
03. examination Fees.– candidates can sit relevant 
subjects at once or separately few times. candidates who 
are sitting this examination for the first time need not to 
pay any examination fee. however, at consequent sittings, 
candidates are required to pay Rs. 1,200 for the whole 
examination and Rs. 600 for one subject. This could be 
paid at any post office/sub post office in the island to be 
credited to Revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
general of Examinations and the original receipt should be 
firmly affixed in the place specified in the application form. 
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy of this receipt). 
Kindly be informed that in addition to examination fees, 
you will not be charged of any extra payment. Money 
orders or stamps are not accepted as examination fees and 
under any circumstances this fee will not be refunded or 
transferred to any other examination. 
04. Applications.– The application should be prepared 
according to the format given at the end of this notice on a4 
size paper. Headings 01 to 05 should be entered on the first 
page and rest on the second page. Further, it is compulsory 
to indicate the title of the examination appearing the 
application in English language too on both sinhala and 
Tamil application forms. application form can be type 
written but the relevant particulars should be entered very 
clearly in candidate's own handwriting. The applications 
should be forwarded to the commissioner general of 
Examinations, organizations and Foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, Post Box 1503, 
colombo, through the head of department under registered 
cover to be reached on or before 02.10.2017. The top left 
hand corner of the envelope should clearly mention the name 
of the examination as "First Efficiency Bar Examination 
for senior statisticians and statisticians in the department 
of census and statistics - 2017". incomplete applications 
and the applications received after the closing date of 
application will be rejected without any notice. Further, 
it is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that 
the application form perfected by him/herself complies 
with the specimen given in the examination notice, if not 
application will be rejected. (it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application).
05. The Identification of the candidate.– all candidates 
should prove their identity for each subject they are sitting 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall. 
any of the following documents will be accepted for this 
purpose : 
 (i) The National identity card issued by the 
commissioner of department for Registration of 
Persons, 
 (ii) a valid Passport. 
The decision of the commissioner general of 
Examinations will be final regarding the candidature of any 
candidate, who fails to submit any of the above. 
06. commissioner general of Examination will issue 
admission cards to the applicants who have submitted their 
duly filled application in the correct format mentioning the 
language medium of the examination with the applicant 
signature, certification of the signature and the certification 
of the head of department and if any examination fee to 
be paid on or before the closing date of application with the 
receipt of the payment made. department of Examinations 
will publish a notification in the newspaper as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
such advertisement an inquiry should be made from the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified 
in the paper notice. in the said inquiry, the name of the 
examination applied, full name of the applicant, National 
identity card number and the address should be correctly 
mentioned. in such cases, it is important to keep the copy 
of the application, the copy of the receipt of examination 
fees and the receipt of the registered post in hand to provide 
the details requested by the department of Examinations. 
in case of applicants who live out of colombo, a letter of 
request with the above details and a fax number can be sent 
to the department of Examination in order to get a copy of 
the admission card through fax. 
07. The candidate should get certified him/her signature 
on the admission card in advance and it should be certified 
by the Head of Department or an Officer Authorized to 
do on behalf of him or Principal of Public school/Retired 
Officer, Grama Niladhari Officer of the Division, Justice 
of the Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney at Law, 
Notary Public an Authorized Officer in Three Forced of 
an Officer in Public Sector, Provincial Public Service or 
permanent staff officer of incumbent of a Buddhist temple, 
chief Reverend or a person in charge of other Religions 
temple or a clergy who is entitled to an annual combined 
salary of Rs. 240,360 or more.
08. head of department should grant duty leave to the 
candidates to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner general of Examinations enabling 
them to present themselves at the examination. Travelling 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1964
expenses will not be paid in this respect. candidates should 
sit for the examination only at the relevant examination 
hall and candidates without admission cards will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination. 
09. The examination will be conducted in the sinhala, 
Tamil and English media. The medium of exam for the 
applicants, who have joined the Public service through a 
competitive examination, should be the medium they have 
sat for the competitive examination. For the applicants 
who have joined the Public service without a competitive 
examination, the medium of the examination considered as 
the qualification for the recruitment should be the medium 
of this examination. The candidates are required to sit for 
all the subjects in one medium and will not be allowed 
to change the medium of examination given in her/his 
application. 
10. This examination will be held only in colombo.
11. Method of examination.– Relevant examination for 
the above post consists of following subjects : 
Subject Subject 
No.
Marks Duration
1. administration 1 100 02 hours
2. Financial Management 
in Public sector
2 100 02 hours
3. English 3 100 02 hours
4. applied statistics 4 100 03 hours
(01) Subject No. 1 - Administration : 
* Organization of office and field activities and 
organizational methods. 
* Following chapters of the Establishment 
code. i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XXiii, 
XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, 
XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and  
XLViii 
 (above chapters should be followed subjected 
to the provisions of section i of Public service 
commission Procedures).
(02) Subject No. 2 - Financial Management in Public 
Sector :
  Following chapters of the Financial Regulations. 
  i - all sections
  ii - all sections
  iii - all sections
  iV - all sections
  V - 1, 2, 3, 4 sections
  Vi - all sections
  Vii - 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 sections.
(03) Subject No. 3 - english
  English Grammar
  A suitable level of proficiency on the following 
forms of grammar in spoken and written language 
is expected from the candidate :
 - Tense and Number
 - sentences (simple/compound/complex/
compound complex)
 - Relative clauses
 - Reported speech
 - adjectives and adverbs 
 - determiners
 - Prepositions
Writing Skills :
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of 
writing is tested in this area of study.
 * internal modes of communication 
 * Formal correspondences skills
 * Writing descriptions/Explanations
 * summary writing skills
 * Report Writing skills
 * Minutes of Meetings/agendas/invitations
 * comprehension
Reading Skills : 
candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text ; infer 
meaning and verbal/written interpretation is 
expected : 
 * Reading and understanding the specific and 
general meaning of the printed text.
 * Reading and interpretation (Verbal/Written).
 * understanding the cohesion and coherence of a 
passage. 
(04) Subject No. 4 - Applied Statistics :
The objective of this paper is to test the knowledge 
of the candidates on statistical tasks carried out 
by the industry, agriculture statistics, National 
accounts, information Technology (data 
Processing), sample surveys, Population census 
and demography, Price index and cartography 
divisions of department of census and statistics.
 11.1 candidate should score a minimum of 40 percent 
(40%) of marks or above to pass in each subject 
and should pass all the subjects in order to pass 
the efficiency bar examination. Candidates can 
complete relevant subjects of the examination at 
once or several times.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1965
12. issue of an admission card to a candidate should not 
be regarded as an acceptance of his/her eligibility to sit the 
examination. 
 12.1 Results of the examination of all candidates 
will be submitted to the director general of 
department of census and statistics. 
13. The decision of the director census and statistics 
will be final in respect of any matter not provided in this 
Gazette notification. 
14. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
sinhala, Tamil and English texts in this Gazette notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail as the accurate text. 
  director general, 
  department of census and statistics.
"sankyana Mandiraya",
No. 306/71,
Polduwa Road, 
Battaramulla. 
sPEciMEN aPPLicaTioN FoRM 
firSt efficiencY Bar examination for Senior 
StatiSticianS and StatiSticianS in tHe dePartment of 
cenSuS and StatiSticS - 2013(2017) - ii
(For office use only)
Language Medium of Examination : 
  sinhala -  2
  Tamil -  3
  English -  4
01. Name with initials writing initials at the end :–––––––.
 (in English Block capitals) eg. : suNiL, J. M. u.
  1.1 Full Name (in English Block capitals) :––––––––.
   (eg. : hERaTh  MudiyaNsELagE  saMaN  
     KuMaRa guNa WaRdhaNa)
  1.2 Surname written first and initials at the end :––––––.
   (eg. : guNaWaRadhaNa, h. M. s. K.)
  1.3 Full Name :–––––––––.
   (in sinhala/Tamil)
02. service station and address : 
  2.1 Name of the service station :–––––––––.
  2.2 Official Address :–––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
   (admission card will be posted to this address)
03.  3.1 sex : 
   Male -  0
   Female -  1
   (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  3.2 National identity card No. :
  3.3 date of Birth : 
  y ear Month date
04. Subject/Subjects applied for the Efficiency Bar 
Examination : 
 (Please refer Para 10 of the Gazette Notification)
Number Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
05.  current Post :–––––––––.
  5.1 Number of the appointment letter :–––––––––.
  5.2 date of appointment :–––––––––.
06. Are you sitting for the examination for the first time ?  
:–––––––––.
  6.1 if not, value of the examination fees paid ? :–––––.
  6.2 Receipt No. :–––––––––.
  6.3 date :–––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt here (Only if applicable) 
(Keep the photocopy of the receipt)
i declare that the information above particulars by me 
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and that 
i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium. indicated above and that i agree to abide by 
the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
general of Examination in relation to conduct of this 
examination and once of results. 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––.
Note.– The applicant should place her/his signature in 
the presence of the relevant head of department or an 
officer authorized to do so on behalf of him. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'08'31
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.08.2017
1966
Attestation of the Signature 
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who serves at my department is personally known to me and 
that he/she signed in my presence on .....................
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
  (Place the official frank)
Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
i certify that, 
 1. The particulars furnished by her/him in chapters above have been checked,
 2. he/she is eligible to sit for this examination. 
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  signature of head of department.
  (Place the official frank)
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
08–1117
PRiNTEd  aT  ThE  dEPaRTMENT  oF  goVERNMENT  PRiNTiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.