

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1709$14 - 2011 cqks 07 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2011'06'07
No. 1709/14  - TUESDAY,   JUNE   07,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government   Notifications
PILGRIMAGES  ORDINANCE
REGULATIONS  made by the Minister of Public Administration and Home Affairs in terms of Section 2 of Pilgrimages
Ordinance (Chapter 175)   :
W. D. J. SENEVIRATNE,
Minister of  Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Torrington Square,
Colombo 07,
30th  May, 2011.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the regulations Esala Perahera, of Ancient Bodhirukkarama Gambara Devala of
Yahamulla, Athureliya.
2.  In these Regulations camp area referred means the area described in the schedule.
“District Secretary/ Government Agent” means the District Secretary/Government Agent of Matara Administrative
district and it also includes any officer authorized by him in terms of Regulation 4.
“Medical Officer” means the Health Medical officer-in-charge of the camp area.
“Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose.
“Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari  in charge of the camp area.
“Public Health Inspector” means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
3. These Regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of festival of Esala Perahera of Ancient Bodhirukkarama
Gambara Devala of Yahamulla, Athureliya in the administrative District of Matara.
4. The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to authorize any public officer to exercise any power vested in him and
carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2011
2A
5. I. The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or working to or from the camp area.
II. No person shall Act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with the instructions issued
to such police officer by the Divisional Secretary for the exercise of powers vested in him under the para (1) of this
regulation.
6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the Divisional
Secretary. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are brought and cattle are driven to a place
reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7.
7. (1) The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places inside the camp area :
(a) Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
(b) Places for leaving carts and cattle.
(c) Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims.
(d) Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick.
(e) Places for begging and solicitation for charity.
(f) Places for displaying certain items for sale.
(g) Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes.
(h) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for washing and other places providing such facilities.
(i) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for bathing  and other places providing such facilities.
(j) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places providing such facilities.
(k) Places for other purpose the Divisional Secretary may deem necessary.
(2) If the Divisional Secretary deems necessary and in case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under
Para. (I) by him, that place shall be used only for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp
area for such purpose.
8. If the Divisional Secretary or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine to any tank, well, water hole
or reservoir situated in the camp area for prevention of diseases, the Divisional Secretary or Medical Officer shall have
the power to do so.
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary permanent building or any other construction or make a new addition to existing
building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp area, reserved or provided certain
purpose under regulation 7, except on a permit issued by the Divisional Secretary for the relevant purpose and in
accordance with the conditions stipulated in such permit.
(2) If any person builds any hut or temporary permanent building or any other construction or make a new addition to
existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery of a written notice
to that person, it is lawful for the Divisional Secretary to order to remove or demolish such hut or building or
construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may be.
(3) Where any person who has been delivered a notice under the Para. (2) of this regulation, neglects to Act in compliance
with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period started there in or where a doubt arises as to who
is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered it is lawful for the Divisional Secretary to cause action
to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, construction or a new addition made to the existing building
or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful for the Divisional Secretary to make arrangements to enter to any
land or premises together with labourers, equipment.
10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory reserved by the Divisional Secretary, for the use of pilgrims
on exhibition of a notice or sign board in or near any lavatory.
11. No one shall contaminate any tank, well, water holes. reservoir, canal stream or rill water located in the camp area.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2011
3A
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by the GA
for this purpose.
13. (1) The Divisional Secretary shall have the power to stream line the distribution of all food and beverages to the pilgrims
in the camp area.
(2) No one shall disobey any order to be carried out by Police Officer or Public Health Inspector in accordance with
instructions given by Divisional Secretary in the exercise of powers delegated to him under Para. (I) of this regulations.
14. (1) Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or other purpose in the camp area is found to be contaminated
or not suitable for human consumption, the Divisional Secretary or the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector
may announce that such food or drink is not suitable for human consumption.
(2) No one shall sell within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for human consumption under
Para. (I) of this regulation.
(3) It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit and destroy any food or drink announced
not suitable for human consumption under Para. (I) of the regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place in
the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained on a
license issued by the Divisional Secretary and in accordance with conditions stipulated there in. Every license shall be
issued free of charge on recommendation of the Medical officer or any officer authorized by such medical officer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses’ and Dansal and all furniture and equipment in
such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale or any other purpose in the camp area shall be kept in
showcase properly made preventing the flies from entering or to the satisfaction of the Medical officer or the Public Health
Inspector.
18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall be left
any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the container placed as provided in
regulation. However wastes milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any place within the camp area or
on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets
are made or eating house or ‘Dansal’ the licence holder of such place shall be deemed to have violated provisions in this
regulations unless such owner chief occupant or license holder proves that all necessary precautions have been taken
and action has been taken with proper care prevent the commission such offence.
19. All bakers, sweet stalls, place where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansals and buildings or constructions used for
commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden or metal garbage container with a capacity for 112 cube
meters (4  1/2 cube feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden or metal lid unless it is used to dump or remove garbage.
20. (1) If the Divisional Secretary is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal
or business place have been established or maintained in violation of regulations 15, 16, 17, 18 or 19 in this section
he shall  have the authority to close down such bakery, sweet stall, place where sweet are made, eating house, Dansal
or business place situated within the camp area or cancel any license with immediate effect if any license has been
issued for such place.
(2) Any person who is in charge of any bakery, sweet stall or place where sweets are made or business place shall Act
in accordance with the lawful directive made by the Divisional Secretary under chapter (1) of this section.
21. No person suffering from any infection disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.06.2011
4A
22. (1) It shall be lawful for the Government agent to order the pilgrims to leave the camp area and for the Divisional Secretary
to determine the route of leaving and mode of transport to be used for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such
area.
(2) No person shall Act against any legal order given by the Divisional Secretary under Para. (I) of this section.
23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and when a person is
knowingly living together with a person suffering  from any infectious disease or contagious disease every such person
shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer immediately.
24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made restaurant or Dansal within the camp area shall
not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter such bakery,
place where sweets are made, eating house or  Dansal or participate in the distribution sale or manufacture of any material
or food or drink.
25. A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or an owner or chief
occupant of any lodge or pilgrims rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious
disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal lodge or
pilgrim rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious
disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant shall report it to the medical officer or the
public health officer or any police officer immediately.
26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means within the camp area except
in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
27. No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within the camp area without a written permission from the Divisional
Secretary.
28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under regulation 7 or 10.
29. It shall be lawful for the Divisional Secretary, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or any Police officer to,
(a) Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from among these
regulations and,
(b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or a name
board under regulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the Divisional Secretary to cancel at any time.
(a) Any permission given under regulation 6 or regulation 27.
(b) Permit issued under regulation 9.
(c) Any license issued under regulation 15.
If he considers that the cancellation is appropriate or in the public interest.
SCHEDULE
The premises of Ancient Bodhirukkarama Gambara Devala of Yahamulla, Athureliya situated within the Grama Niladari
Division, of  Yahamulla Athureliya in the Divisional Secretariat Division, of Athureliya in Weligam Korale in the Matara District.
Boundaries are as follows :
South : Kekalamahena Land ;
East : Athureliya - Yahamulla main village council road ;
North : Nakuttiya land ;
West : Wilpita reserved forest.
06-448
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.