

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2242
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2240
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"084 – 2018 wf.daia;= ui 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'08'10
No. 2,084  –  FRiday ,  august 10, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st august, 2018 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th august, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer (Acting).
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2237-B 81438- 5,403 (08/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2238
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2239
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2240
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Limited Recruitment for the Post of  Assistant 
Director III (Departmental) in Executive Officer 
Category in the  Small Enterprises Development 
Division of the ministry  of  youth Affairs, Project 
management and Southern Development
aPPLicatioNs are invited from the  suitably qualified 
internal applicants to fill; 11  vacancies of Assistant Director 
(departmental) in the small Enterprises development 
division of the Ministry  of  youth affairs, Project 
Management and southern development.
01. Mode of recruitment.– applications will be entertained 
from  among the Enterprise Development Training Officers 
who have fulfilled the qualifications stipulated in Section 2 
of this notice, serving in the small Enterprise development 
division and those who  score highest marks at a structured 
interview conducted by an interview Board appointed 
by the Public service commission will be recruited in a 
number equivalent to the  number of  prevailing vacancies. 
structured interview shall be conducted as per marking 
procedure approved  (as stated  under section 05) by the 
Public service commission.
02. Requisite Qualifications :
 I. Should have been confirmed in the post of 
Enterprise Development Training Officer.
 ii. should have completed ten ( 10) years active 
service in the post  of Enterprise development 
Training Officer.
 III. Should have passed first and second efficiency bar 
examinations.
 IV . Should be in possession of five (05) years  
satisfactory service immediately before the date 
of being qualified. 
 V .  other:
  should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
  should be in possession of an excellent moral 
character. 
  Requisite qualifications  for  the post   should 
have been fulfilled in every aspect as at the 
last date of calling for applications.
03.  Service and employment conditions :
 i. those applicants selected for this service shall 
be subject to the conditions laid down in the 
recruitment procedure pertaining to the post of 
assistant director (departmental) existing in 
the small Enterprises development division  
within the purview of the Ministry  of  youth 
affairs, Project Management and southern 
development  as per conditions  relevant to the 
appointments in public service. 
 ii. this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made towards  Widows 
and orphans/Widower/orphans Pension scheme.
 iii. appointment shall be subject to one  years 
probation period.  First efficiency bar 
examination, as stipulated in the  recruitment 
procedure,  should  be passed within three (3) 
years of recruitment to the grade of assistant 
director iii. 
 IV . Relevant proficiency in the other official 
language in addition to the language in which the 
recruitment to  the service  was made  should be 
acquired  within five (05) years of recruitment, 
in keeping with Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and other circulars incidental 
thereto. 
 V . this appointment will be subject to  procedural 
rules and regulations of the  Public service 
commission, Establishment code of sri Lanka 
democratic socialist Republic, government 
Financial Regulations and other departmental 
directives. it will also be subject  to the 
provisions and future amendments and other 
provisions   which may be imposed  in the 
recruitment procedure pertaining to the post of 
assistant director (departmental) in executive 
officer category in the Small Enterprise 
development division.  
04. Salary Scale. – annual  monthly salary scale of                
Rs. 47,615-10x1335 – 8x1630-17x 2170- Rs.  110,895 
(sL-1 2016) is assigned to this post.  (salary will be paid 
as stipulated in schedule ii as per provisions laid down in 
Public administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016.)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2241
05. Structured Interview.– structured interview  will be on the basis of the following marking system.
Serial
No.
Heads under which marks will be allocated at the Interview Hypothetical 
marks
Maximum 
marks
01 For additional active professional experience :
I. at the rate of 05 marks  for each    year in addition to the ten(10)  years service 
period of  preliminary qualification. 
    50
02 For additional educational qualifications :
I. In  the  relevant  field (subjects such as  management,  economics,  commerce, 
business  administration, information  technology, statistics or agriculture etc.),
• for Post Graduate Degree
• Post Graduate Diploma
     (Marks will be allotted only for the maximum qualification) 
II. For a certificate obtained on  a diploma course of computer technology of  not less  
than one year’s duration offered by  an institute recognized by the state.  (For 1500  
hrs. duration)  
For a certificate obtained on  a certificate course of computer offered by  an institute 
recognized by the state.  ( For 360-720  hrs. duration)  
                 (Marks will be allotted only for  the  maximum qualification) 
III. For a certificate obtained for a Diploma course on Sinhala/Tamil language) of not  
less than six months duration offered by a recognized institute. (1500 hrs)
For a certificate obtained for a certificate course  ( 360-720 hrs)
                 (Marks will be allotted only for  the  maximum qualification) 
IV .  For  course relevant to field and allied  training in an institute recognized by the 
state
  
  
08
 05
03
02
 02
01
 02
    20
    
03 For creative activities and exceptional skills ( eg.):-
•	 director contribution towards creation of new programmes
•	 Preparation of project reports of new projects
•	 contribution towards compilation of training manuals for training programmes 
(Certificates and documents  produced should have been  certified  by the 
director, small Enterprise development) 
Marks at the rate of 05  per activity)
      25
04 skills displayed at the interview      05
     total   100
06. How to apply :
 i. applications should be prepared in a4 paper as per the specimen format.
 ii. duly perfected applications should be sent under registered cover to reach  “secretary, Ministry of youth 
affairs, Project Management and  southern development”  on or before 10.09.2018 and  the words  “Post of 
assistant director(departmental)” should be clearly indicated on the left hand side of the envelope enclosing the 
application.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2242
07. Rendering  inaccurate information.– y our 
candidacy  will be  nullified if any information contained  
in your application is found  false or inaccurate before  the 
recruitment. if such false or inaccurate information  is found 
after the recruitment, you will be subject to dismissal  as per  
relevant procedures. 
08. Final decision with regard to any matter not included 
in this notice  shall be in accordance with the directive 
of the Public service commission.  Further, authority of 
taking a final decision with regard to filling or not filling the 
vacancies or filling a part of those vacancies   shall remain 
with the Public service commission. 
as per directive of the Public service commission,
 H. M. 
gamini Senevirathne, 
 secretary,
 Ministry of youth affairs, 
 Project Management and southern  
 development.
19th of July, 2018.
sPEciMEN aPPLicatioN
Public Service commiSSion
limited recruitment for the PoSt of  aSSiStant director 
iii( dePartmental) in executive officer category in the  
Small enterPriSeS develoPment diviSion of the miniStry  
of  youth affairS, Project management and Southern 
develoPment
01. Name in full :––––––––––––.
02. Private address :––––––––––––.
03. Official Address :––––––––––––.
04. date of Birth :––––––––––––.
05. date of appointment to the post of Enterprise 
Development Training Officer :––––––––––––.
06. Details pertaining to the efficiency bars relevant to 
the post of Enterprise Development Training Officer :              
––––––––––––.
06.1. Whether the   first efficiency bar  is passed ? :  
––––––––––––.
06.2. Whether the  second efficiency bar  is passed ? 
:––––––––––––.
i certify that the  particulars  given above true and correct.
    
 ––––––––––––––,
 applicant’s signature.
date :––––––––––––.
Recommendation of the head of Department
i certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss……………………. is 
serving in this department, has completed five years 
satisfactory service immediately prior to the date  of calling 
for applications, has earned all the increments during the 
preceding Period of five years, has not been subjected to 
any disciplinary punishment other than a warning and  the 
information furnished in 01 to 06 above are correct as per 
his/her personal file.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of department.
 Official  seal.
date :––––––––––––.
08–384
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
mINISTRy Of LAND AND PARLIAmENTARy 
REfORmS
Survey Department
LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN 
FoR REcRuitMENt to tHE Post oF MaP 
tEcHNoLogicaL oFFicER (tRaiNiNg gRadE) oF 
sRi LaNka tEcHNoLogicaL sERVicE -2018
1.0 aPPLicatioNs are invited from qualified departmental 
employees for the limited competitive examination held for 
recruitment to the post of Map Technological Officer in 
sri Lanka technological service which remains vacant in 
survey department.
1.1  Designation.– Map Technological Officer 
(training grade)
1.2 Nature of Duties.– Production of maps and 
technical work relevant to them, initial and final 
work relating to surveying and maintenance of 
documents relevant to them

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2243
2.0 the number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. the 
appointing authority has the power to keep all or some of the vacancies without filling.
3.0 Salary.– table No-01
Grade Salary Scale Initial Monthly Salary
training grade No the salary scale relevant to the post, previously 
held, will be granted
grade iii Monthly Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660-10x730-
10x750-  Rs. 57,550
(MN3-2016)
Rs. 24,626/-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)
grade ii Monthly Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660 - 10x730-
10x750- Rs. 57,550
(will be started from the 12th salary step)
(MN3  - 2016)
Rs. 28,684 /-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)
grade i Monthly Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660- 10x730-
10x750- Rs. 57,550
(will be started from the 23rd salary step)
(MN3  - 2016)
Rs. 34,506/-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)
special grade Monthly Rs. 41,580-11x755-18x1,030 - Rs. 68,425
 (MN7  - 2016)
Rs. 32,960/-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)
4.0 Service Conditions of the post:
 4.1  When the candidates recruited to the training grade, pass the eligibility test conducted by the institute of 
surveying and Mapping, diyathalawa at the end of two year training", recruitment to the post of Map 
Technological Officer of grade III in Sri Lanka Technological Service will be made.
 4.2  The post of Map Technological Officer of grade III in Sri Lanka Technological Service is permanent and 
pensionable. this post is subjected to one (01) year acting period and selected candidates should ready to 
serve in any part of the island. selected one is subject to general conditions applicable to appointment to 
the public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette Notification, to the service minute of Sri Lanka 
technological service and the amendments to it from time to time, procedural rules of Public service 
commission, Establishment code, Financial Regulation and other orders and regulations that has been 
issued and will be issued by the government regarding of the Public service.
 4.3  The Officers who join the service in a language other than official language should obtain prescribed 
official language proficiency within the probationary period.
 4.4  Second language proficiency applicable to his/her post should be obtained within five (05) years from 
the date of permanent appointment in terms of the Public administration circulars No: 01/2014 and the 
circulars incidental to it. If it is failed to obtain the said proficiency within the relevant period, salary 
increments will be suspended until the proficiency is obtained.
 4.5  Credit level proficiency in  G. C. E. (O/L) English language should be obtained before the expiration of         
5 years in grade iii.
 4.6  should enter into an agreement with the department that the two years training will be fully completed, 
that serve in the department for six (06) years after two year training and if he/she leaves the training after 
the commencement date of training or if he/she fails to serve the contractual period in the department, 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2244
that the amount of Money, Rs. 150,000.00, the money spent by the government is paid to the democratic 
socialist Republic of sri Lanka and a bond with ensuring of two guarantors recognized by the department 
should be signed before the commencement of the training.
5.0 Qualifications:
 5.1  (a)  Educational Qualifications.– should have passed the g. c. E. (o/L) Examination in six (06) subjects 
with credit passes for sinhala/t amil/English language, science, Mathematics in not more than two 
sitting.
  (b)  experience .– Having at lease ten (10) years of active and satisfactory work experience in the relevant 
field in a permanent, departmental post in the primary or above service category.
 5.2 Physical Fitness.– All candidates should have physically and mentally fit adequate to carry out the duties 
of the post in any part of sri Lanka.
 5.3  Other :
 (i)  Appointment should have been confirmed.
 (ii)  Should have completed at least five (05) years of active and satisfactory service in a permanent 
Departmental post of public service immediately prior to the due date and it should have been certified 
by the head of the department.
 (iii) Only if the officer has completed all the qualifications in all respects as at the date mentioned in the 
notice calling for application, it is accepted that the qualifications required to appear for the written 
test for recruitment of the service have been completed,
6.0 Age .– Not applicable
7.0 Method of recruitments to the training grade.– Recruitments will be made on the results of a written test and 
general interview conducted by the surveyor general. an equivalent number of candidates to the number to which to wish 
to recruit will be called for the interview in order of merit of the total marks of the applicant who passed the written test.
7.1 Written examination.– the examination is a written test consisted of two subjects. this examination will 
be held in sinhala, tamil and English Mediums and the medium applied for will not allowed to change 
subsequently.
Subject Total marks which can be 
obtained
Minimum percentage which should be 
obtained for pass
Time
intelligence test 100 40% 01 hour
subject related technological Paper 100 40% 02 hours
Syllabus :
 i.  Intelligence test.– consisted of questions to judge the rationality of thinking, analytical  ability of thinking 
and ability for making decision of the candidate.
 ii. Technological Paper :
  Mathematics
  t rigonometry (equations, solving of triangles)
  statistics (Mean. Mode, standard deviation, Probability)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2245
 iii.  Physics
  Light and optics (Reflection and Refraction, 
Mirrors, curved surfaces,
  Prisms and formulas of Lense optics
 iV .  Miscellaneous topics
  introduction to geography (shape of the earth, 
topography etc….)
  the angle view of solid substances and 
derivation of projections
7.2  General Interview.– an interview will be held 
only to ascertain the qualifications and no 
marks will be given to the interview.
8.0 Recruitment to the grade iii at the end of the training 
period.
1. the candidates those who are enrolled to the 
training grade under the limited stream will 
be recruited to the grade iii, after submitting 
of the certificate issued to certify pass, after 
successfully completion of two year diploma 
course of technician, conducted by the institute of 
surveying and Mapping, diyathalawa. 
2. if there are apprentices who fail to pass the 
examination held at the end of the training, there 
is an opportunity to them to get it extended their 
training period for a period not exceeding six 
(06) months. candidates who applied under the 
limited stream and fail the repeat exam will be 
released for their prior posts.
3. the selected apprentices under the limited stream 
should retain further in the same salary scale, 
of the post which they held before and annual 
allowance equal to the initial salary increment of 
the recruitment grade of the sri Lanka technical 
service will be paid in addition to the salary until 
examination is held by the department at the end 
of the training. An officer who participates to the 
training satisfactorily will be placed in the above 
salary scale of the same salary scale which he/she 
was placed up to now in the second year and the 
allowance will be paid further. after completion 
of the training satisfactorily and passing of the 
examination, salary conversion will be made in 
terms of the probation of the Establishment code, 
revised by the public administrative circulars 
No. 07/2000 and dated 02.03.2000.
9.0 Preparation and completion of Application :
9.1 the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself using both sides of paper size 
21x29 (a4) as per the specimen application 
appearing at the end of this notice. the 
application should be prepared so as to include 
No. 01 on page 01, No. 02-05.on page 02, No. 
06-09 on page 03 and No. 10-12 on page 04.
9.2 applications should be in the language in 
which the candidate is eligible to sit for the 
examination and since the medium applied for 
will not be allowed to change subsequently, 
they should be completed correctly.
9.3 in the applications submitted in sinhala and 
tamil languages, the name mentioned in the 
topic should be also in English language.
9.4 signature of the candidate in the application 
should have been attested. the signature should 
have been attested by the immediate supervising 
officer of the office at which currently serve of 
the survey department.
N.B.– the examination centre applied for will not be 
allowed to change subsequently
10.0 submission of applications and issuance of 
admissions:
10.1  all the applications which are not complying 
with the specimen application, examination 
fees have not been paid before due date and 
incomplete and of improper filling will be 
rejected without any notification. Candidates 
should bear consequences of improper filling 
of application. it would be useful to retain a 
photocopy of the application. applicant should 
check out whether the completed application 
is conformity with the specimen application 
mentioned in the notice. if not, the application 
can be rejected.
10.2 Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged. No complaints regarding lost of 
applications in the post will be considered.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2246
10.3 on the presumption that only the candidates 
who have qualifications specified in Gazette 
notification, have applied, Surveyor General 
will allow all candidates who have paid 
specified examination fees and submitted 
application on or before due date, to sit for the 
examination. the issue of an admission card 
to a candidate does not necessarily mean that 
he or she has the requisite qualifications to sit 
for the examination. if it is found at the time 
of interview that the applicant does not possess 
the requirement for this post, candidature for 
examination of them will be cancelled.
11.0 examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 300. 
this fee should be paid at the cashier of the surveyor 
General office at No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or 
at any of district survey office or at Institute of Surveying 
and Mapping- diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted 
in the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee 
is not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without receipts 
will be rejected.
12.0 submission of application :
12.1 completed application should be sent by 
registered post to reach to the following address 
on or before 10.09.2018 :
 surveyor general,
 Examination Branch,
 survey department,
 No.150,
 Narahenpita,
 colombo 05.
12.2 ''Recruitment to the training grade of the post 
of Map Technological Officer- Limited basis" 
should be clearly indicated on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope.
12.3 applicants should send their applications 
through their heads of the institutions.
N.B.- the applications receive to the survey 
department after 10.09.2018 will not be accepted 
on any circumstances.
13. Furnishing false information.– if it is found that a 
candidate has no qualifications to sit for the examination, 
his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, 
during or after the examination. if it is found that a candidate 
has purposely furnished false information or willfully 
suppressed ant material fact, after the recruitment he or she 
will be liable for dismissal from the public service.
14.0 Appearing for the examination.– Every candidate 
must get his/her signature attested in the admission card 
before the examination. attested admission card should 
be submitted to the supervisor in the examination hall. 
otherwise you will not be allowed to sit for the examination. 
Further, a candidate must sit for the examination only at the 
examination hall assigned to him.
15. Identity of a Candidate.– the candidate should prove 
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervision on each 
subject he/she sits for. the following  documents will be 
accepted for this purpose :
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons,
 (ii)  Valid passport.
16.0 decisions will be taken by the surveyor general 
regarding any matter not mentioned in this notice. all the 
candidates are bound to take action in terms of the rules and 
regulations prescribed in this Gazette notification.
 P. M. P. 
udayakantha,
 surveyor general,
 survey department.
survey department,
colombo,
on the date of 26th July, 2018.
Schedule 01
examination centerS and center numberS
 Serial No. Center Center No.
 01 colombo 01
 02 diyathalawa 02
 03 anuradhapuraya 03 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2247
SPeCIMeN APPlICATION FORM
ministry of land and Parliamentary Reforms
Survey Department
Limited competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Map Technological Officer (Training Grade) of Sri Lanka 
Technological Service- 2018
the name of the examination mentioned in the topic of the specimen application should be entered in ''English" in 
addition to sinhala in sinhala applications and in addition to tamil in tamil applications.
For Office use
Medium of examination
sinhala  - 1
tamil - 2
English  - 3
(Write the relevant number in the given cage)
Examination centre, applied to sit for the examination
(indicate the city and the relevant number that you wish to sit for the examination in the cage as per the schedule 01 of the 
Gazette notification.)
1.0  1.1  Name with initials using initials at the end :––––––––––––.
   (in English capital letter) Eg. PERERa  a. B. c.
  1.2  Full Name :––––––––––––. (in English Block Letters)
  1.3  Full Name :––––––––––––. (in sinhala/ in tamil)
  1.4  National identity card No. : 
  1.5  date of Birth:  date Month year
  1.6  age as at 10.09.2018  : dates Months  y ears
  1.7  gender:  Female  -1 
    Male  -2
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  1.8  civil status:    Married          unmarried
 
2.0   2.1  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block Letters)
  2.2  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  2.3  the address which admission card should be sent :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block Letters)
  2.4  telephone Number (if any) :––––––––––––.
3.0   3.1  Permanent resident district of the applicant :––––––––––––.
  3.2  divisional secretariat :––––––––––––.
  3.3  grama Niladhari division :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2248
4.0  Educational Qualifications:
 (Certified copies of relevant certificates should be 
attached)
  4.1  details of g. c. E (o/L) examination (First   
  attempt):
  (i)  year and Month of the examination :––––––.
  (ii)  index Number :––––––––––.
  (iii)  Result :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
  4.2  details of g. c. E. (o/L) examination (second  
  attempt):
  (i)  year and Month of the examination :––––––.
  (ii)  index Number :––––––––––.
  (iii)  Result :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
 
5.0  05.1 Experience :––––––––––.
 05.2 Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
6.0  06.1  the post which joined to the service of the 
department and the date :––––––––––.
 06.2  Employee No. :––––––––––.
 06.3  Whether the service in the post has been 
confirmed ? :––––––––––.
 06.4  Whether the officer has been subjected to 
disciplinary punishments during the service 
period ? :––––––––––.
  06.4.1 if the answer is ''yes" give details :–––––.
 06.5  if, it has been appointed to other posts after the 
initial post, give details :––––––––––.
Post Appointed date Confirmation of the 
Service
7.0  Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any 
offence (Indicate the mark''√'' in the relevant cage)
  y es   No
 7.1 if ''yes" give details :––––––––––.
8.0 details of payment of examination fees:
 (i)  Office at which the payment made :––––––––––. 
 (ii)  Receipt No. and date :––––––––––. 
 (iii)  amount paid, Rs. :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(keep a photocopy with you)
9.0 Certification of the candidate:
 (a)  i declare that particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to bear the loss which can be 
resulted by incompletion of application and or 
incorrect filling of application. Further, I declare 
that all the sections of this regard have been 
completed correctly.
 (b)  i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service.
 (c)  Further, i declare that i agree to comply with the 
rules and regulations laid down by the surveyor 
general in respect of the examination.
 (d)  i shall not subsequently change any of the 
particulars mentioned here.
  ––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2249
10.0 attestation of signature of the applicant:
i certify that Mr./Mrs./ Miss. …………………… who is submitting the application is personally known to me and 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of attester.
date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
11.0 Recommendation of the Head of the department:
Personal file of the officer was checked. I certify that the information furnished by him under head 06 and 07 is 
correct. If selected to the post this officer can be/cannot be released from the post he/she holds at present.
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the Branch.
date :––––––––––––.
08- 457/1
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  LAND  AND  PARLIAmENTARy  REfORmS
Survey Department
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN FoR REcRuitMENt to tHE Post oF MaP tEcHNoLogicaL 
oFFicER (tRaiNiNg gRadE) oF sRi LaNka tEcHNoLogicaL sERVicE -2018
1.0  aPPLicatioNs are invited from qualified citizen of Sri Lanka for the Open competitive examination held for recruitment to 
the post of Map Technological Officer in Sri Lanka Technological Service which remains vacant in Survey Department.
1.1  Designation.– Map Technological Officer (Training Grade)
1.2  Nature of Duties of the Post.– Production of maps and technical work relevant to them, initial and final work 
relating to surveying and maintenance of documents relevant to them
2.0 the number of appointment and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. the 
appointing authority has the power to keep all or some of the vacancies without filling.
3.0  Salary :
 t able No-01
Grade Salary scale Initial Monthly Salary
training grade No the salary scale relevant to the post, previously 
held, will be granted
grade iii Monthly Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x 660-10x730-
10x750- Rs. 57,550
(MN3-2016)
Rs. 24,626/-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2250
Grade Salary scale Initial Monthly Salary
grade ii Monthly Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660 - 10x730-
10x750-Rs. 57,550
(will be started from the 12th salary step)
(MN3  - 2016)
Rs. 28,684 /-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)
grade i Monthly Rs. 31,040-10x445-11x660 - 10x730-
10x750- Rs. 57,550
(Will be started from the 23rd salary step)
(MN3  - 2016)
Rs. 34,506/-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)
special grade Monthly Rs. 41,580-11x755-18x1,030- Rs, 68,425
 (MN7  - 2016)
Rs. 32,960/-
(in terms of the provision of schedule ii in P.a. c. 
03/2016)
4.0  Service Conditions of the post :
 4.1  When the candidates recruited to the training grade, pass the eligibility test conducted by the institute of 
surveying and Mapping, diyathalawa at the end of two year training", recruitment to the post of Map 
Technological Officer of grade III in Sri Lanka Technological service will be made.
 4.2  The post of Map Technological Officer of grade III in Sri Lanka Technological Service is permanent and 
pensionable and this post is subjected to three (03) years probation period. you are subject to a decision 
taken by the government in future regarding of the pension scheme entitle to you. Further, you should make 
contribution to the widow/widower and orphan's pension scheme. you should make contribution for that as 
ordered by the government from time to time.
 4.3  selected candidates should ready to serve in any part of the island. selected candidates is subject to 
general conditions applicable to appointment to the public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette 
notification, to the service minute of sri Lanka technological service and the amendments made thereto from 
time to time, procedural rules of Public service commission, Establishment code, Financial Regulation and 
other orders and regulations that has been issued and will be issued by the government regarding of the 
Public service.
 4.4  The Officers who join the service in a language other than official language should obtain prescribed official 
language proficiency within the probationary period.
 4.5  Second language proficiency applicable to his/her post should be obtained within five (5) years from the date 
of permanent appointment in terms of the Public administration circulars No: 01/2014 and the circulars 
incidental to it. If it is failed to obtain the said proficiency within the relevant period, salary increments will 
be suspended until the proficiency is obtained.
 4.6  Credit level proficiency in G. C. E. (O/L) English Language should be obtained before the expiration of          
05 years in grade iii.
 4.7 should enter into an agreement with the department that the two years training will be fully completed, that 
serve in the department for six (06) years after two year training and if he/she leaves the training after the 
commencement date of training or if he/she fails to serve the contractual period in the department, that the 
amount of money, Rs. 150,000.00, the money spent by the government is paid to the democratic socialist 
Republic of sri Lanka and a bond with ensuring of two guarantors recognized by the department should be 
signed before the commencement of the training.
5.0 Qualifications:
 5.1  (a)  Educational Qualifications.– should have passed the g. c. E. (a/L) Examination in three subjects in 
science/mathematics/technology subject stream in one sitting with two subjects of combined Maths and 
Physics.
   and

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2251
   should have passed the g. c. E. (o/L) Examination in six (06) subjects in one sitting with credit passes 
for sinhala/tamil/English language, science, Mathematics and another one subject.
 5.2  Physical Fitness.– All candidates should have physically and mentally fit adequate to carry out the duties of 
the post in any part of sri Lanka.
 5.3  Other :
 (i)  should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 (ii)  should be of good character.
 (iii)  any person ordains in any religious denomination, will not be eligible to sit for the examination.
 (IV)  Only if the applicant has completed all the qualifications and prescribed age limit in all respects as at the 
date mentioned in the notice calling for applications, it is accepted that all the qualifications required to 
sit for the competitive examination for recruitment to the service have been fulfilled.
6.0 Age :
 6.1  Maximum limit – Not less than 18 years
 6.2  Maximum limit- Not More than 30 years
7.0 Method of recruitments  to the training grade.– Recruitments will be made on the results of a written test and 
general interview conducted by the surveyor general. an equivalent number of candidates to the number to which to wish 
to recruit will be called for the interview in order of merit of the total marks of the applicant who passed the written test.
 7.1  Written examination.– the examination is a written test consisted of two subjects. this examination will 
be held in sinhala, tamil and English mediums and the medium applied for will not be allowed to change 
subsequently.
Subject Total marks which can 
be obtained
Minimum percentage which 
should be obtained for pass
Time
intelligence test 100 40% 01 hour
subject related technological paper 100 40% 02 hours
Syllabus :
 (1)  Intelligence test.– consisted of questions to judge the rationality of thinking, analytical  ability of thinking 
and ability for making decision of the candidate.
 (2)  technological Paper -
  Mathematics
  t rigonometry (equations, solving of triangles)
  statistics (Mean. Mode, standard deviation, Probability)
 (3)  Physics -
  Light and optics (Reflection and Refraction, Mirrors, Curved Surfaces,
  Prisms and formulas of Lense optics
 (4)  Miscellaneous topics -
  introduction to geography (shape of the earth, topography etc….)
  the angle view of solid substances and derivation of projections
 7.2  General Interview.– An interview will be held only to ascertain the qualifications and no marks will be given 
to the interview.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2252
8.0 Recruitment to the grade iii at the end of the training 
period.
1. the candidates those who are enrolled to the 
training grade will be recruited to the grade iii, 
after submitting of the certificate issued to certify 
pass, after successfully completion of two year 
diploma course of technician, conducted by the 
institute of surveying and Mapping, diyathalawa. 
2. if there are apprentices who fail to pass the 
examination held at the end of the training, there 
is an opportunity to them to get it extended their 
training period for a period not exceeding six (06) 
months. the post of the apprentices, who fail the 
repeat exam which is held at the end of the period 
so extended, will be terminated.
9.0 Preparation and completion of Application :
 9.1  the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself using both sides of paper size 
21x29 (a4) as per the specimen application 
appearing at the end of this notice. the application 
should be prepared so as to include No. 01 on 
page 1, No.. 02-05.on page 02, No. 06-09 on page 
03 and No. 10-12 on page 04.
 9.2  applications should be in the language in which 
the candidate is eligible to sit for the examination 
and since the medium applied for will not be 
allowed to change subsequently, they should be 
completed correctly.
 9.3  in the applications submitted in sinhala and 
tamil languages, the name mentioned in the topic 
should be also in English language.
 9.4  signature of the applicant should have been 
attested in the application. an applicant applying 
thought an institution should get his signature 
attested by the head of the institution or any 
officer authorized by him. The other applicants 
should get their signature attested by a Principal 
of a government school, Justice of peace, 
sworn commissioner, Public Notary authority, 
Commissioned officer in the Army, Navy, Air 
Force an officer holding Gazette post in the 
police service, or an officer holding a permanent 
post in public service in tertiary or senior level as 
per the grading of Public administration circular 
No. 06/2006.
N.B.: the examination center applied for will not be 
allowed to change subsequently.
10.0 submission of applications and issuance of 
admissions :
10.1  all the applications which are not complying 
with the specimen application, examination 
fees have not been paid before due date and 
incomplete and of improper filling will be 
rejected without any notification. Candidates 
should bear consequences of improper filling 
of application. it would be useful to retain a 
photocopy of the application. applicant should 
check out whether the completed application 
is conformity with the specimen application 
mentioned in the notice. if not, the application 
can be rejected.
10.2 Receipt of the application will not be 
acknowledged. No complaints regarding lost of 
applications in the post will be considered.
10.3 on the presumption that only the candidates 
who have qualifications specified in Gazette 
notification, have applied, Surveyor General 
will allow all candidates who have paid 
specified examination fees and submitted 
application on or before due date, to sit for the 
examination. the issue of an admission card 
to a candidate does not necessarily mean that 
he or she has the requisite qualifications to sit 
for the examination. if it is found at the time 
of interview that the applicant does not possess 
the requirement for this post, candidatures for 
examination of them will be cancelled.
11.0 examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800/=. 
this fee should be paid at the cashier of the surveyor 
General office at No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at 
any of district Survey Office or at Institute of Surveying 
and Mapping- diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee is 
not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without receipts 
will be rejected.
12.0 Submission of application :
12.1  completed application should be sent by 
registered post to reach to the following address 
on or before 10.09.2018
 surveyor general,
 Examination Branch,
 survey department,
 No.150,
 Narahenpita,
 colombo 05.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2253
12.2 the applicants who are already in the public 
service or provincial public service should 
submit their applications through their heads of 
the departments and the applicants who are in 
state corporations, local government institutions 
should submit their applications through their 
heads of the institution on or before due date.
12.3 ''Recruitment to the training grade of the post of 
Map Technological Officer- Open basis" should 
be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope.
N.B.- the applications receive to the survey 
department after 10.09.2018 will not be accepted 
on any circumstances.
13. Furnishing false information.– if it is found that a 
candidate has no qualifications to sit for the examination, 
his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, 
during or after the examination. if it is found that a candidate 
has purposely furnished false information or willfully 
suppressed any material fact, after the recruitment he or she 
will be liable for dismissal from the public service.
14.0 Appearing for the examination.– Every candidate 
must get his/her signature attested in the admission card 
before the examination. attested admission card should 
be submitted to the supervisor in the examination hall. 
otherwise you will not be allowed to sit for the examination. 
Further, a candidate must sit for the examination only at the 
examination hall assigned to him.
15. Identity of a Candidate.– the candidate should prove 
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervision on each 
subject he/she sits for. the following  documents will be 
accepted for this purpose :
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons,
 (ii)  Valid passport.
16.0 decisions will be taken by the surveyor general 
regarding any matter not mentioned in this notice. all the 
candidates are bound to take action in terms of the rules and 
regulations prescribed in this Gazette notification.
 P. M. P. 
udayakantha,
 survey general,
 survey department.
survey department,
colombo,
26th July, 2018.
scHEduLE - 01
examination centers and center numbers
 Serial No. Center Center No.
 01 colombo 01
 02 diyathalawa 02
 03 anuradhapuraya 03
SPecimen aPPlication form
miniStry of land and Parliamentary reformS
SuRvey DeP ARTMeNT
Open competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Map Technological Officer (Training Grade) of Sri 
Lanka Technological Service- 2018
tHE name of the examination mentioned in the topic of the specimen application should be entered in ''English" in addition 
to sinhala in sinhala applications and in addition to tamil in tamil applications.
For Office use
Medium of Examination :
sinhala  - 1
tamil - 2
English  - 3
(Write the relevant number in the given cage)
Examination centre, applied to sit for the examination :
(indicate the city and relevant number that you wish to sit for the examination in the cage as per the schedule 01 of the 
Gazette notification.)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2254
1.0  1.1  Name with initials using initials at the end :––––––––––––.
   (in English capital letter) eg. PERERa a. B. c.
  1.2  Full Name :––––––––––––. (in English Block Letters)
  1.3  Full Name :––––––––––––. (in sinhala/ in tamil)
  1.4  National identity card No. : 
  1.5  date of Birth:  date : Month : year :
  1.6  age as at 10.09.2018 : days : Months :  y ears :
  1.7  gender:  Female  -1 
    Male  -2
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
  1.8  civil status:    Married :          un-married :
 
2.0   2.1  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block Letters)
  2.2  Permanent address :––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  2.3  the address which admission card should be sent :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block Letters)
  2.4  telephone Number (if any) :––––––––––––.
3.0   3.1  Permanent resident district  :––––––––––––.
  3.2  divisional secretariat :––––––––––––.
  3.3  grama Niladhari division :––––––––––––.
4.0  Educational Qualifications:
 (Certified copies of relevant certificates should be attached)
  4.1  details of g. c. E (o/L) examination  :
  (i)  year and Month of the examination :––––––.
  (ii)  index Number :––––––––––.
  (iii)  Result :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
  4.2  details of g. c. E (a/L) examination  :
  (i)  year and Month of the examination :––––––.
  (ii)  index Number :––––––––––.
  (iii)  Result :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.08.2018
2255
5.0  V ocational/Technical Qualifications (Certified copies of 
relevant certificates should be attached) :
 05.1 degree/course obtained :––––––––––.
 05.2 the Name of the institution of which the degree/
course obtained :––––––––––.
 05.3 duration of the degree/course :––––––––––.
6.0  Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
7.0  Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any 
offence (Indicate the Mark ''√'' in the relevant cage)
  y es   No
 7.1 if ''yes" give details :––––––––––.
8.0 if the applicant had previously served in Public/
Provincial Public service and then resigned the reason 
for such registration :––––––––––.
9.0 details of payment of examination fees:
 (i)  Office at which the payment made :––––––––––. 
 (ii)  Receipt No. and date :––––––––––. 
 (iii)  amount paid, Rs. :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(keep a photocopy with you)
10.0 Certification of the candidate:
 (a)  i declare that particulars furnished by me in this 
application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to bear the loss which can be 
resulted by incompletion of application and or 
incorrect filling of application. Further, I declare 
that all the sections of this regard have been 
completed correctly.
 (b)  i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service.
 (c)  Further, i declare that i agree to comply with the 
rules and regulations laid down by the surveyor 
general in respect of the examination.
 (d)  i shall not subsequently change any of the 
particulars mentioned here.
  ––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
11.0 attestation of signature of the applicant:
i certify that Mr./Mrs./ Miss. …………………… who is 
submitting the application is personally known to me and 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of attester.
date :––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
12.0 Applicable only for the officers who are already in the 
government or semi government institutions :
attestation of the head of the department/institution                 
Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. who submitted this 
application is serving in this department/institution from 
............... to ..............it has not been reported unfinished 
disciplinary charges against him/her. His/Her work 
behaviour and attendance is satisfactory/unsatisfactory. 
it is informed that prescribed examination fees have been 
paid and the receipt has been pasted, if he/she selected to 
the post of ................ it can be/cannot be released from the 
department/institution. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of the Branch.
date :––––––––––––.
08- 457/2
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNka.