

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.11.2017
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
wxl 2047$22 - 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 28 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2017'11'28
No. 2047/22  - TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER  28, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A-  PG 3789 -  107 (11/2017)
RULES   OF   PROCEDURE   FOR   PUBLIC   COMPLAINTS   INVESTIGATION
Rules of Procedure made by the National Police Commission by virtue of the powers vested in it under Article 155FFF
of the Constitution.
P. H. M ANATUNGA,
Chairman,
National Police Commission.
Colombo,
27th November 2017.
1. These may be cited as the “Rules of Procedure (Investigation of Public Complaints against Police Officers or the
Police Service) 2017” ;
2. Any person who is aggrieved by an act of a Police Officer or Police Service may lodge a complaint with the
Public Complaints Investigation Division (hereinafter referred to as PCID) or any of the Provincial Offices of the
National Police Commission (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) for redress according to law.
3. Investigations regarding complaints referred to in Section 2 above shall be carried out on the direction of the
Secretary of the Commission by an authorized officer designated as Director, Additional Director, Provincial
Director or Investigation Officer appointed by the Commission.
4. There shall be a Provincial Director appointed for each Province who shall be in charge of the investigations
into the public complaints received by the Provincial Office. He shall report direct to the Director, PCID at the
Commission.
5. Any public complaint received against a Police Officer or the Police Service shall be acknowledged by an
authorized officer within one week.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.11.2017
2A
6. The Commission may appoint additional independent Investigating Officers, when necessary, to investigate
public complaints. They will carry out their duties under the direction of the Director of the PCID.
7. The Commission may empower the Director, PCID, Additional Director, PCID, Provincial Direrctor, or
Investigating Officer or any other Officer appointed for the purpose to visit any Police Station to inspect any
person in the Police cells and to question and examine such person/s and obtain any copies of statements made
to the Police in respect of the complaint made by any other person and obtain copies thereof.
8. The Inspector - General of Police shall issue instructions to all Police Officers to assist the Public Complaints
Investigation Officers appointed by the Commission by expeditiously providing all material required in the
investigation of public complaints.
9. All Police Officers irrespective of their rank, shall assist the Director PCID, Additional Director PCID,
Provincial Director PCID, or Investigating Officer, PCID or any other officer appointed for the purpose in
conducting investigations regarding complaints referred to in Section 2 above, by providing reports or documents
called for within two weeks. In the event the required report or assistance cannot be provided within two weeks,
such Police Officer may obtain an extension of time by giving reasons.
10. Every effort shall be taken by the Commission to ensure that the investigation is completed within three months
and to inform the complainant of the outcome of the investigation when requested by the complainant at any
time, by sending a SMS, e-mail, fax, letter or when inquired personally.
11. In the event the complaint is not satisfied with the redress provided, he may refer the matter for review to the
Secretary of the NPC. The opinion expressed by the Secretary after review shall be final and conculsive on the
matter.
12. Where these proceudres are silent in respect of any matter regarding the public complaint being investigated,
the decision of the NPC shall be final and conclusive.
13. Action against Police Officers on matters arising out of the findings of Public Complaint investigations will be
dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the Establishment Code and Departmental Orders made under the
Police Ordinance and Government Circulars.
14. In the event of any evidence relating to a criminal offence is disclosed out of an investigation, such matters will
be referred to the Inspector General of Police for further action according to the Criminal Procedure Code.
15. The Rules of Procedure (Public Complaints) 2012 made by the National Police Commission under Article 155FF of
the Constitution and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1770/19 of August 10, 2012 are hereby rescinded.
12- 391
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.