

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'20
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2012
673
673
wxl 1"768 - 2012 cQ,s 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'07'20
No. 1,768 – FRIDAY ,  JULY  20, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Land Settlement :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Notices under Land Development Ordinance ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 674
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  10th  August, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
27th July, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
N.B.– Part IV (A) of the Gazette  No. 1,767 of 13.07.2012 was not published.
            The List of  Registrars of  Births, Marriages and  Deaths - 2011 has been  published in Part  VI  of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'20
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2012
674
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s  No. : 4/10/33108.
Deputy  Land  Commissioner's  No.:  bfld$ud$yï$;sia$b 8$§' n.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose, Mr. Mohomad
Hamsa  Suleiman  has on lease a state land containing in extent
about  0.0506 Hac. out of  extent marked Lot No. B  as depicted in
the plan  TSS/2010/534  and situated in the village of  Kirinda
belongs to the Grama Niladhari Division  of No. 21, Andaragasyaya
coming within the Area of Authority of   Tissamaharama    Divisional
Secretariat in the District of Hambanthota.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Lot Number A & C;
On the East by : Lot Number A  ;
On the  South by : Lot Number A  ;
On the West by : Lot Number A.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  ( From  15.06.1995
onwards);
The Annual Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the currently Prevailing
undeveloped value of the land as per valuation of the Chief
Valuer for the year 1995;
Penalty : Treble 4% of the developed value of the land;
(b) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the Residential Purpose ;
(d) This lease must also be subject to the other special conditions
stipulated and imposed by the Divisional Secretary, and by
other institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) Permission will not be given for other  sub - leasing  or
vesting  except for  vesting with  in the family or sub leasing
or vesting for the  purpose for which  the land was obtained
until the expiry of 05 years from 25.05.2012.  The right to
obtain a   grant for this lease bond will be given after the
expiry  of 05 years from 25.05.2012;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(i) House construction activities must be completed within the
time frame specified in alienating lands for house construction
purposes and the failure to do so will be deemed as a lapse
of the long term  lease bond and the land will have to be  re-
vested in the government.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
W. M. P. P. W
EERASINGHA  ,
Assistant   Land Commissioner
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 No. 1200/6, Land  Secretariat,
''Mihikatha Medura",
Rajamalwaththa Road,
Battaramulla,
26th July,  2012.
07-445
Land Commissioner General's No : 4/10/23980.
Deputy Land Commissioner's No. :- uys$ix$01$05$67.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that for commercial purpose,  Mr. A. F. A.
Silva   has  requested on lease a state land containing in extent about
01 Acre.  forming a portion  of Lot No............... as depicted in the
Plan  of the  feild Instructer  in 11.06.2007 and situated in the
village of  Topwalapitiya which belongs to the Grama Niladhari
Division of  Topwalapitiya coming within the area of authority of
Vilgamuwa Divisional Secretariat in the District of Matale.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by : Secondary road reserve ;
On the East by : Secondary road reserve ;
On the South by : House of H. A. Jayarathna Banda;
On the West by : Land of H. P. Ranasinghe.

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2012'07'20
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2012
675
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other government approved conditions and the
following conditions.
(a) Terms of the lease .- Thirty years (30) (From   25.05.2012
onwards );
The annual amount  of the lease .- 4% of the  Commercial
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief Valuer  in
the  year 2012. This amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the amount
as a result of the revision will be not less than 50% of the
amount that just preceded;
Penalty  .- Treble 4% of the developed value  of the land;
(b) The lessee  must within one year of the commencement
of the lease develop the said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the  mind of the Divisional  Secretary;
(c) The lessee must not use this land for any purpose other
than for  Commercial purpose;
(d) This lease must also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary/Scoping  Committee/Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka and other  institutions;
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure
on the part of the lessees to substantiate within the
specified time frame the purpose for which the land was
obtained, action will be taken to terminate the lease;
(g) No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum
period of 05 years;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
K
USHANI BORALESSA,
Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 ''Mihikatha Medura", Land  Secretariat,
No. 1200/6,  Rajamalwaththa Road,
Battaramulla,
28th June,  2012.
07-523