

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
627
627
wxl 1"857 - 2014 wfm%a,a 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'04'04
No. 1,857 – FRIDAY, APRIL 04, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 630
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 631
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th April, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th April,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Parts I:III and III of the Gazette No. 1,856 of 28.03.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
628
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
629
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
630
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th May , 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
18th March, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Rambuke Ela Area, Harispattuwa General, District Secretariat,
Division Kandy.
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Pethiyagoda Area, Udunuwara General, District Secretariat,
Yatinuwara Division Kandy.
04–163
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
631
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th May , 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
18th March, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Poojapitiya Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Pallegampaha North and Post of General, District Secretariat,
Marriage Registrar of Harispattuwa Kandy.
Division (Kandyan/General)
04–164
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s
Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman - 2014
THE examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s certificate to
practice as an Authorized Draughtsman will be held in Colombo.
The examination will be in two parts;
   Part I - Preparation of Co-ordinate Sheets
   Part II - Plan Work
2.  Part I of the examination will be held on 19th July 2014 and
Part II on 18th and 19th October 2014. Candidates who fail Part I
will not be allowed to sit for Part II. Candidates should pass both
Part I and Part II at the same examination to qualify for the award
of the Surveyor General’s Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman.
3. Candidates are required to satisfy me that:-
(a) They can prepare a co-ordinate sheet from field notes
and co-ordinate a survey traverse;
(b) They can plot a plan accurately from field notes, both
by protractor and from Co-ordinates and compute
extents correctly.
4. Applicants should posses the following qualifications :
(a) Have passed National Certificate of Education (N.C.E.)
or G .C.E.(O/L) examination in six (06) subjects with
two (02) credit passes ;
and
(b) Have successfully completed a course related to
draughtsmanship; having duration of not less than one
year, at a government technical college or other semi
government Institution.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
632
5. Applications for the examination must be prepared as per
specimen below and sent under registered post to “Senior
Superintendent of Surveys (Examinations), Institute of  Surveying
and Mapping, Diyatalawa” accompanied by a fee of Rs.400/=.
Payment by cash may be made to the Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa or by money orders, should be made payable
to the “Senior Deputy Surveyor General (Training)” and post office
“Diyatalawa”. Attach the original receipt or the original money
order. (Please do not paste the receipt or money order to the
application). Remittance by stamps and cheques will not be
accepted. The envelope should be labeled as “Examination for the
Issue of Surveyor General’s Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman
- 2014" on the top left hand corner.
6. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
7. Applications closing on 16th May, 2014. Applications will
not be accepted after that.
8.  Drawing papers and co-ordinate sheets will be supplied at
the examination hall. However, candidates should bring their own
drawing instruments, mathematical tables for computation of
coordinates and all other material they require. Use of non-
programmable scientific calculators will be allowed with the
permission of the Supervisor at the examination hall.
9. (i) Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the
satisfactions of the Supervisor by the production of any
one of the following documents.
   (a) An Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
registration of persons;
   (b) A valid Passport;
   (c) Any certificate, license or other document which
embodies a photograph of the holder and issued within
three years of the date of examination on the authority
of a Government Department.
 (ii) No candidate for the examination shall be entitled to be
examined unless he / she furnished proof of his/ her
identity required by paragraph 9 (i).
10. This examination will be held under the metric system.
N. G
UNAWARDHANA,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General’s Office,
P.O. Box 506.
Colombo 05,
20th March, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
S
RI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
EXAMINATION FOR THE ISSUE OF SURVEYOR GENERAL’S CERTIFICA TE AS
AUTHORIZED DRAUGHTSMAN - 2014
 Index No:
        (For office use)
(a) (i) Name with initials (in Capital letters) : Mr./Mrs./Miss : –
–––––––––––.
(ii) Names  denoted by  initials (in Capital letters) :––––––.
(b)  Sex  :––––––––––––.
(c)  Designation :––––––––––––.
(d)  Official address  :––––––––––––.
(e)  Permanent address (in Capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(f)  Date of birth :––––––––––––.
(g)  Educational qualifications  (Certified true copies  should be
attached) :––––––––––––.
(h)  Medium through which the candidate proposed to sit this
examination : Sinhala / Tamil / English :
(i)  Fees Paid: Rs. :––––––––––––.
(j)  Money Order / Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
      Office of Issue :––––––––––––.
      Date :––––––––––––.
( Attach  the  original  receipt  if  paid  to the Institute  of
Surveying  and  Mapping, Diyatalawa or the original money order
if paid by money order.)
I do here by certify that above details are true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
04–127
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  CONSTRUCTION,  ENGINEERING
SERVICE,  HOUSING  AND  COMMON  AMENITIES
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to
Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technical
Service of the Ministry of Construction, Engineering
Service, Housing and Common Amenities – 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the qualified citizens of
Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
633
to Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technical Service for
the Ministry of Construction, Engineering Services, Housing and
Common Amenities.
02. Candidates who satisfy the quailfications on the merit of the
results of a written examination conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examination will be called for a structured interview and
candidates who secure highest aggregate marks on the results of the
written examination and the structured interview will be selected
for the posts of Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technical
Service in the Ministry of Construction, Engineering Services,
Housing and Common Amenities.
03. Age limit.– Shall not be less than 18 years or more than 30
years of age as at the closing date of applciations. The maximum age
limit shall not be applicable to those already in the Public Service or
the Provincial Public Service.
04. Qualifications and Experience :
(a) Educational qualifications :
(i) Should have passed six subjects at the G. C. E.
(Ordinary Level) examination in one sitting with
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English Language,
Mathematics and two other subjects ; and
(ii) Should have passed all subjects of the Science or
Mathematics stream (except for Common General
Test) at the General Certificate of Examination
(Advanced Level) in one sitting.
(b) Professional Qualifications .– Candidates shall have one
of the following professional qualifications in the field of
Civil Engineering together with the educational
qualifications indicated in 4a above.
(i) National Technical Diploma offered by the
University of Moratuwa or Hardy Technical
Institute, Ampara ; or
(ii) National Engineering Diploma offered by the
National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority ; or
(iii) National Higher Engineering Diploma offered by
the Ministry of Higher Education ; or
(iv) Technical Diploma offered by the Sri Lanka Open
University ;
(v) Successful completion of Part I of the Engineering
Examination Conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute
of Engineering ; or
(vi) Any other qualification deemed equivalent to the
above technical qualifications by the Sri Lanka
Technical Service Board in consultation with the
Ministry of Higher Education and the institutions
that offer abovementioned technical certificates.
(c) Physical Qualifications.– Shall be physically fit for service
in any part of the island.
(d) Other Qualifications :
(i) Should have followed NVQ 3 level computer course
from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission with knowledge
in data processing.
(ii) The applicant shall be of excellent moral character.
05. Salary scale .– MN 3-2006A under Public Administration
Circular 06/2006(iv). Rs. 15,005 -180x4 - 240 x 6- 320x11 -
360 x 30 - Rs. 27,885.
The First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within 03
years from the date of appointment and proficiency of the other
official language should be achieved before the lapse of 05 years
from the date of appointment as per Public Administration Circular
07/2007.
06. Service Conditions :
1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. Selected applicants shall be subject to serve in any area
of the country.
3. Selected applicants will be placed under a three year
probationary period and those already in the Public
Service will be subject to one year acting period.
4. Selected applicants are subject to the provisions of the
Establishment Code and Financial Regulations and orders
issued by the government from time to time through
Public Administration Circulars and the Departmental
Instructions.
07. (i) Recruitment Method.– Recruitment shall strictly be made
on the order of merit of the results of a written
examination and a structured interview. The written
examination will be held first. On the order of merit among
those who have passed the written examination, a number
equivalent to thrice the number expected to the recruited
shall be called for the structured interview. On the order
of merit of the total aggregate marks of the written
examination and the structured interview, the number
expected to the recruited shall be recruited. The written
examination will only be conducted in Colombo by the
Commissioner General of Examinations in the month of
July, 2014.
(ii) Scheme of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held only in Sinhala and
Tamil medium. The langauge media of examination
indicated initially shall not be allowed to change
subsequently.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
634
(b) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination
in one and the same language.
(c) All candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid
down by the Commissioner - General of
Examinations. If a candidate violates any of those
rules, he or she is liable to a punishment at the
discretion of the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
(iii) Subjects of the examination .– The examination shall
consist of two question papers :
1. Intelligence Test,
2. Technical Question Paper.
(iv) Release of the results.– Applicants will be selected on the
order of merit of the total aggregate of marks of applicants
who secured 40% or more for each subject of the written
test and the interview list consisting of a number
equivalent to thrice the number of vacancies and prepared
in alphabetical order will be forwarded to the Secretary
of the Ministry of Construction, Engineering Service,
Housing and Common Amenities.
Upon the receipt of the marks for the structured
interview, the result sheet prepared on the order of
priority based on the aggregate marks of the written
examination and the structured interview will be forwarded
to the Secretary of the Ministry of Construction,
Engineering Services, Housing and Common Amenities.
08. Syllabus :
1. Intelligence Test :
Duration one hour.
Total marks 100.
To assess the candidate’s capacity for logical thinking,
analyzing and time management by measuring the
candidate’s inferences and responses to problems
presented in verbal, numerical and pictorial context :
2. Technical Question Paper :
Duration 03 hours.
Total marks 100.
Knoweldge of the candidates will be tested in the
following areas will be tested :
1. Quantity Surveying.
2. Preparing Bill of Quantity.
3. Preparing estimates,
4. Analyzing quantities for building construction work.
Applicants who secure 40% or more for each of the
above question papers will be selected to prepare the
priotiy list for the structured interview on the order of
their aggregate marks.
Geometrical tool and other accessories that may be
required to answer the above question paper should be
brought to the examination hall by the applicant.
09. Penalty for Furnishing False Information. – Applicants
should take care to furnish correct information in filling the
application form. If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or
after the examination, as per the rules and regulations of the
examination. If, during any stage, it is found that a candidate has
furnished false information, he will be liable for dismissal from the
public service. The issue of an admission card to a candidate does
not necessarily mean that he/she has the erquried qualifications to
sit the examination.
10. Examination Fees.– The examination fee is Rs. 600. It should
be paid at any District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat or Post
Office to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained from
the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat should be pasted
securely to the relevant cage in the application form. (It is advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate for future
reference). Under no circumstances will the fee be refunded and
money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
11. Method of Application :
(a) Application should be prepared using papers of A4 size
(21x29cm) (normal half sheets) in such a way that :
(i) Paragraphs 01-03 appear on the first page ; and
(ii) Paragraphs 04 onwards on the other pages ;
(iii) Applications which are incomplete and not prepared
in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected
without any notice. Further, it would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the completed application form
with the applicant. Applicant should be responsible
to make sure whether the application is perfected in
compliance with the specimen form given in the notice
of the examination.
Further, when preparing the application form it is
necessary for the name of the examination in the heading
to be written in English in addition to Sinhala in the
applications filled in Sinhala and in English in addition to
Tamil in the applications filled in Tamil.
(b) The completed application form for the examination
should be sent under registered cover to reach the address
mentioned below on or before 02nd May, 2014 :
Commissioner General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
635
The words "Recruitment to Technical Officer Grade III of
Sri Lanka Technical Service for the Ministry of Construction,
Engineering Services, Housing and Construction" should be
clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope
in which the application is sent. Any application received
after the closing date will not be accepted.
(c) It is compulsory for applicants who are already in the
public service to forward their applications through the
head of respective Institutions under heading 12.0 of the
application.
(d) A paper advertisement will be published by the
Department of Examinations immediately after releasing
the Admission Cards to the candidates. Candidates who
do not receive the Admission Card even after 2 or 3 days
of the paper advertisement should inform the Department
of Examinations in accordance with the paper
advertisement. You are hereby required to make inquiries
about it from the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka
mentioning the copy of the application kept by you,
copy of the receipt for payment of fees and the copy of
the Registered Postal Article Receipt and mentioning the
name of the examination, applicant’s full name, National
Identity Card Number and the address and if the applicant
is residing away from Colombo it would be more helpful
if inquiries are made to the Department of Examinations
by Fax to obtain a copy of the Admission Card quoting
your Fax No. and a letter from you containing the above
information.
(e) The applicant should get his/her signature in the admission
card certified and it is this admission card in which the
signature is certified that should be presented to the
supervisor on the day of the examination. Applicants
who have not got their signature certified will not get
permission to sit the examination.
(f) The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the required
qualifications to sit the examination.
12. A candidate should submit any of the following documents
to the supervisor at the examination hall in order to prove his
identity :
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
13. The Secretary to the Ministry of Construction, Engineering
Services, Housing and Common Amenities will decide regarding
any matter not covered by this notice. All candidates are abided by
common examination rules and regulations in this Gazette.
P. H. L. W
IMALASIRI PERERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Construction, Engineering Services,
Housing and Common Amenities.
At the Ministry of Construction,
Engineering Services, housing and Common Amenities,
04th April, 2014.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT  TO
TECHNICAL OFFICER GRADE III OF SRI LANKA TECHNICAL SERVICE OF
THE MINISTRY OF CONSTRUCTION, ENGINEERING SERVICE, HOUSING AND
COMMON AMENITIES – 2014
(For office use only)
Language medium of examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials, in English block letters :––––––––.
Eg. : PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the Admission Card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
2.4 Postal town :–––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
3.0 3.1 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 National Identity Card No. :
3.3 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.4 Age as at 02.05.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 Details of the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level ) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
636
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Details of the G. C. E (Advanced Level) Examination :
(i) Year and month of the examination :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Results :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.0 Technical Qualifications :
Institute Course Duration Grade Number and date
followed of certificate
6.0 Other Qualifications :
Institute Computer course followed
7.0 If already in the public service :
7.1 Address of department/Institution  :–––––––––––.
7.2 Current post :–––––––––––.
7.3 Period of Service :–––––––––––.
7.4 Weather pensionable or temporary :–––––––––––.
8.0 Have your ever been convicted by a court of law ?
Put (
3) in the relevant cage, (if yes, give details)
Yes N o
9.0 Particulars relevant to the receipt of the payment of examination
fee :
(i) The office to which the examination fee was paid :
–––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :–––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :
Affix the receipt here securely.
10. Applicant's declaration :
(a) I do hereby solemnly declare that the details provided in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to bear any loss resulting from not
completing/inaccurately completing any part herein. I
further declare that all parts herein have been completed
accurately.
(b) I agree that if any information herein is found to be
incorrect or false prior to the selection, my application
will be rejected and if so found so after selection I am
liable to be dismissed from service.
(c) I do hereby agree to abide by all the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(d) Any information contained herein will not be altered
subsequently.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. is known to me
personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on
.......................... and that he/she has paid the examination fee and
the receipt of same has been affixed herein.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attesting Officer.
Name in full of the attesting officer :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Authenticate with official stamp)
12. If the applicant is in the public service, certificate of Head of
the Department/Institute :
I submit the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss .........................., I
certify that he/she has been serving in this Ministry/Department as
a pensionable/temporary/casual employee and if selected he/she
can/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department/
Institute or Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the certifying officer :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
04–125

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
637
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY  – UNIVERSITY  OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course, 2014/2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year full time Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
General.– The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial Training
and is conducted in English medium. The course is offered in the
following fields of study :
(a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I)  :
(i) Marine Engineering Technology.
(ii) Nautical Studies and Technology.
(b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology.
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology.
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology.
(iv) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Technology.
(v) Mechanical Engineering Technology.
(vi) Polymer Technology.
(vii) T extile and Clothing Technology.
Eligibility :
2.1 Age :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2013.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2013 will
be given preference for admission to the Marine
Engineering Technology and Nautical Studies and
Technology Courses. A special medical test and
interview would also be conducted for selection of
students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies
Courses.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open University
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational Institute under the
Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the
following subjects :–
(i) Physics,
(ii) Chemistry,
(iii) Combined Mathematics,
(iv) Advanced Mathematics.
at one and the same sitting of a G . C. E. (A/L) Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2011
or 2012 or 2013.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course :
The selection of students for admission will be based on
the performance at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G .C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., in the
order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and 60%
district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant’s order
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the
field preference will be considered in the allocation of the
field of study.
Application Procedure :
4.1 Application Form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address :
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post  marked “ NDT Admission
2014/2015 ” on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and addressed to the "Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa.
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.
(iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with the
application form.
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should be
sent along with the application form. However,
the content of the application has to be certified as
indicated. (See cages 3, 4 and 5 in the form of
application.)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
638
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are  two SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets of
fields. The preference must be indicated if
candidate applies to both sets of fields.
(iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This should
be completed only by the candidates who are
applying for Maritime Studies.
(iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7.
"1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and
so on "7" for the least preferred.
5. (i) Application Fee.–  Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2
is Rs. 300 and SET 1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt of
payment in favour of “ Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank
of Ceylon, Katubedda Branch” to the value of Rs. 300
(Rupees Three Hundred) for one set of fields of study
(Rs. 500 if applying for both sets of fields), obtained
only from any branch of the Bank of Ceylon  should
accompany each application. This application fee is non-
refundable.
(ii) Closing Date.–  The closing date of applications is
02.05.2014.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G. C. E. (A./L.) performance in Merit and District Quota will be
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
(i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to
produce the originals of the following certificates on the
date of registration :–
* G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
* Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
* School Leaving Certificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* Affidavit in support of any changes in name
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of the
course.
(ii) A student who has already registered in this university or
any other university in Sri Lanka (except Open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
is not be eligible for applying.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
For office use only
Application
No.
District
Application for (Please   9  )
1. Maritime Fields - SET 1
2. Other Fields - SET 2
[Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2)
or both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
1. Personal Details : (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
Name in Full :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Name with Initials :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Title Mr./Ms. S e x
Male/Female
Age (Years)   (Months) Date of Birth :
As at 31st Date Month Year
Dec. 2013
National ID
Number
APPLICATION FOR
ADMISSION TO THE
NATIONAL DIPLOMA
 IN TECHNOLOGY
COURSE
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF MORATUWA
ACADEMIC YEAR 2014/2015


<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
639
2. Contact Details :
Address (Residence):
(Leave one blank cage between different segments of the
address)
Telephone
Mobile
E-mail (if available)
3. Results of G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score . .               .
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether 2011 or 2012 or 2013)
4. Medium :
Medium in which you wish Sinhala/Tamil/English
to sit the Aptitude Test (Delete whatever is
inapplicable)
5. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13 :
Y ear Name & District Period of
Address Attendance
of  School From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13 1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
6. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
It is compulsory to certify the results under No. 3 and
details under No. 4 in the application by the School
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice
of Peace for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the Cage No.3 and Cage No. 4 are true and accurate according
to the Original Certificates.
Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace :
Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................
  
 Official Seal
....................... .....................
Signature Date
07. Field Preference :
SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference
and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime
Studies.
SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for
the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on ‘7’ for
the last preferred.
Set 1 Set 2
Maritime Fields O rder Other Fields Order
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
State Priority, if applied for Electronic and Telecomm-
both sets – 9 unication Engineering
Technology
SET 1 Mec hanical Engineering
Technology
SET 2 Polymer Technology
Textile & Clothing
Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other University under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education ?
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
APPLICANT'S  DECLARATION :
1. I DECLARE THA T I AM NOT A FULLTIME
REGISTERED STUDENT AT ANY UNIVERSITY
(EXCEPT OPEN UNIVERSITY OF SRI LANKA) OR
ANY HIGHER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION
UNDER THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION.

Yes N o

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
640
2. I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the
particulars given by me in this Application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be
discontinued from the course.
3. In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by  Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
4. I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt
obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of
“Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa -
Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubadde,
Branch”.
5. I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".
6. I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University or any other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education at the time of sitting for
the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
04-46

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
641
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'04'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.04.2014
642
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2014
APRIL 04.04.2014 Friday — 21.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
11.04.2014 Friday –– 28.03.2014 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2014 Thursday –– 04.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
25.04.2014 Friday –– 11.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
MAY 02.05.2014 Friday — 17.04.2014 Thursday 12 noon
09.05.2014 Friday –– 25.04.2014 Friday 12 noon
16.05.2014 Friday –– 02.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
23.05.2014 Friday –– 09.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
30.05.2014 Friday –– 16.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 06.06.2014 Friday — 23.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
13.06.2014 Friday –– 30.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
20.06.2014 Friday –– 06.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
27.06.2014 Friday –– 13.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2014.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.