

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 248
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"214 – 2021 fmnrjdß ui 05 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'02'05
No. 2,214  –  fRiday ,  fEbRuaRy 05, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th february, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th february, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
245 - b 82201- 5,403 (02/2021)
Note.–    (i) Marriages (General) (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 29, 2021.
 (ii) Muslim Marriage and divorce (Repeal) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 29, 2021.
N. B.–   Part ii, iii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,213 of 29.01.2021 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
246
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
247
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
248
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
INSTITuTE Of TEChNOLOGy uNIvERSITy Of mORATuWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology Course - 2020/2021
THIS is with reference to the Number 03, Selection criteria regarding calling applications from the qualified candidates for 
the admission of the National Diploma in Technology Course, 2020/2021 published in the Gazette Notification Number 
2197 dated 09.10.2020.
considering the factors related to the prevailing covid -19 Pandemic Situation of the country, the institute of 
technology university of Moratuwa has decided to admit students for National diploma in technology 2020/2021 batch 
based on their Z score values without conducting the aptitude test. 
However, consideration of applicants’ performance of the G. c. E. (a/L) in Merit and district Quota in the selection 
will remain unchanged. 
It was also decided to conduct the English language proficiency test in a later date. 
 dr. c. S. 
Lewangamage, 
 competent authority.
instiute of technology, university of Moratuwa, 
Sri Lanka, 
21st January, 2021. 
02–23
––––––––––––––––––––––
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO GRADE 
III Of RAILWAy TEChNOLOGICAL 
mANAGEmENT ASSISTANT (mEChANICAL) 
& RAILWAy TEChNOLOGICAL 
mANAGEmENT ASSISTANT (ELECTRICAL) 
IN mANAGEmENT ASSISTANT 
TEChNOLOGICAL SERvICE CATEGORy 
SEGmENT - 2 - 2021
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the qualified citizens in 
Sri Lanka for the open competitive Examination for the 
recruitment to the training period of the vacancies in the 
following posts. 
• Railway Technological Management Assistant 
(Mechanical )-vacancies-l36
• Railway Technological Management Assistant 
(Electrical)-vacancies-17
2. according to the order of the merits of marks, scored 
by the candidates at the written competitive examination 
held by the General Manager in Railways, the candidates 
equivalent to the twice number of the existing vacancies 
will be directed to an interview & recruited to the existing  
vacancies according to the order of the merits of marks, 
scored at the competitive examination & at the interview.
3. Age Limit : it should not be less than 18 years 
of age & not more than 45 years of age as at the 
closing date of the receipt of applications.
4. Conditions of Recruitment : after recruitment to a 
training period of one year firstly ,the officers who completed 
the training successfully will be recruited the grade iii.
Qualifications For The Recruitment To The Training 
Period:
Educational Qualifications : Have been passed G.c.E. 
(ordinary Level) Examination with six subjects including 
credit passes for Sinhala/ tamil / English Language, 
Mathematics & for any other two subjects in one sitting.
&
Have been passed all the subjects (Except General test) 
in the stream of Science at the G.c.E.(advanced Level) 
Examination & gained the required competency level for 
following a Tertiary Educational Course..(It is sufficient of 
passing 03 subjects in one sitting under the old syllabus.)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
249
only the trainees who have enrolled for the training courses in Sri Lanka German Railway technical training 
Centre as at 15.06. 2017 are allowed to apply ignoring the above cited Educational Qualification if they have received the 
Training Certificate after completing the relevant courses successfully :
Professional Qualifications: I have been awarded certificates by Sri Lanka German Railway Technical Training 
Centre after following a full time technical course of not less than a period of 2 1/2 years in a below cited field Relevant to 
the post.
diesel Engine Mechanic course
Welding course
Electrician (Power) course
Machinist (General) course
5. Salary scale :
Grade iii
in terms of the public administration circular 03/2016 Mt-02-2016 
Rs.30,140-10x350-11 x 370-10x560-  10x 660- Rs. 49,910-
Training Period : 
Monthly allowance:- Rs.25,790 from 01.01.2021 to 31.12.2021 (on approval of the director of Establishment)
6. Recruitment Procedure :- the written competitive examination for recruitment to the training Period will be held 
only in Sinhala & tamil medium. it is not allowed later to change the media of the examination, indicated in the application.
a candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one & the same language candidates are subjected to rules 
& regulations imposed by the General Manager in Railways on conducting the Examination & issue of results. He is liable 
to a Punishment imposed by the General Manager in Railways for breach of these rules.
Subjects in the written examination in recruitment to the Training Period 
the examination will consist of two (2) papers.
No. Subject Time Maximum
Marks Passing Mark
01 General Knowledge & intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
02 technology 01 hour 100 40
Syllabus :
01. General Knowledge & Intelligence Test:-
 To test the candidate awareness & understanding of the social , cultural ,educational, scientific political, 
& any other relevant factors , operating at the National , Regional & Global environment including the 
environment of the living & service area. this structured question paper is with the questions of numerical 
& verbal problems & general knowledge in order to assess the candidate ’s capacity for comprehension 
ability, taking logical decisions,.
02. Technological Subject :
 this consists a paper, designed to assess the basic technological theoretical knowledge that should be 
known relevant to the post.
_

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
250
 interview for evaluation eligibility in recruitment to the training Period
 a  number equivalent to twice the number of vacancies shall be called for the interview for the evaluation of 
eligibility in order of merits from the written examination & the interview & will be recruited a number of 
candidates equivalent to the number of vacancies, existed at the time of calling applications.
Main Heads of offering Marks The maximum
Marks
1.Additional Educational Qualifications
courses followed in English, tamil Language, computer & others
20
2. Additional Professional Qualifications.
other Professional courses, followed relevant to the profession.
(Marks will be awarded for the courses of 06 months & over 06 months).
30
3. Experience, acquired relevant to the profession.
it will be considered for maximum 05 years with 06 marks per year.
30
4. Special/Extra abilities
Sports/ Social Services etc.
15
5.attitudes & Personality at the interview. 05
total 100
Recruitment Procedure to the grade 111 after the training period.– the trainees, recruited for the training period 
will be directed to a written & practical test at the end of the training & the Qualified Trainees are recruited to the grade 
111. The Trainees who failed the End Test at the training firstly are permitted for 02 chances to face the same test again & 
the service of the unqualified Trainees will be terminated.
The Subjects of the written test for recruitment to the grade III after the training period :
this will consist of one paper.
Subjects Time Maximum Marks The Passed Mark
01 technological Subject 02 hours 100 40 
Syllabus
technological Subject - this will consist a paper of assessment of knowledge in respect of the technological 
Subject relevant to the post.
The Practical Test for recruitment to the grade III after the training period :
Subjects Maximum Marks The Passed Mark
01 technological Subject 100 60
Syllabus
Technological Subject- a practical test will be conducted in order to assess whether the theoretical knowledge is 
used practically & accurately relevant to the skill on the selected subject & the post.
07. Conditions of Service.– this post is permanent & pensionable.(it should be liable to the ensuing policy decisions, 
taken by the Government.)

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
251
Every candidate is liable to serve in any part in the island.
Details on the Service Agreement
The officers, enrolled for the training period & recruited 
to the grade iii should compulsorily render their service 
to the Railway department for 10 years since the date of 
appointment. they have a bond with the General Manager 
in Railways with nominating a government servant as a 
guarantor in order to assure that they do not resign prior 
to the compulsory period of 10 years & if they resign the 
service prior to the compulsory period of 10 years it is agreed 
to pay a penalty, recommended by the General Manager in 
Railways.
The First Efficiency bar Examination should be passed 
within 03 years from the date of appointment to the -Grade 
iii.
The officers, joined with the service by a non official 
language is required to achieve the proficiency of due official 
language within the probation period.
Selected candidates on the general conditions governing 
appointments in the Public Service and on the terms and 
conditions set out in the recruitment procedure in Management 
assistant in technological Service Segment -2 in Sri Lanka 
Railway department approved on 15.06.2017 by the Public 
Service commission No.PSc/ESt/04-01-43/02/2016 and 
subject to any amendments made or to be made hereafter 
to that procedure, provisions in the establishment code and 
financial Regulations and of the Minutes of procedural rules 
of the Public Service commission published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of                    
Sri Lanka No: 1589/30 of 20th february 2009.
Selected candidates should pass the special vision 
test relevant to the post as per the Railway departmental 
instructions in addition to pass the prescribed medical test
08. Penalty for furnishing false information.– it should 
be furnished accurate particulars very carefully in filling the 
application.
according to the rules and regulations of this examination 
if it is found to be disqualified, his /her candidature will 
be cancelled at any instant prior or during or after the 
examination.
if any particular furnished by the candidate is found to be 
inaccurate later or if it is disclosed on a matter intentionally 
conceived by him,  it is not further considered for offering an 
appointment & will be liable for abolition of an appointment, 
made by this examination or dismissal from the government 
service.
the issue of an admission card to a candidate does not 
mean that he/she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications to 
sit the examination.
09. examination Fee: - the examination fee is 
RS.750.00. it should be paid before the closing date of 
receipt of applications at any branch of Peoples' bank to 
be credited to account Number 176 - 100129027-313 of 
the General Manager in Railways in Mid city branch of 
Peoples' bank. the receipt obtained should be pasted in the 
relevant cage of the application form using one of its edges. 
it will not be entertained Money orders or stamps for the 
Examination fee . this fee is non - refundable or replaced 
for other examination (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the receipt with the candidate.)
10. Method of Application :-
(a) the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification & should 
be prepared on a4 size paper using both sides. 
it should be specially noted that the application 
forms should be prepared that cages 1-0 to 2-12 
appear on the first page of the paper, 3.0 to 5.0 
appear on the second page & the others appear 
on the third page. for this purpose it can be used 
computerized/typed applications. as applications 
that do not comply with the specimen and that are 
not completed in every aspect shall be rejected 
without notice , it is the responsibility of the 
candidate to make sure that the application form is 
compiled with the specimen.
(b) the application should be completed in the 
language medium in which the candidate intends 
to sit the examination using own handwriting. it 
is essential to mention the name of examination in 
English language as well, in applications prepared 
in both Sinhala & tamil medium.
(c) the completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by registered post to 
reach the address below before 05.03.2021. the 
words "competitive Examination for Recruitment 
of Qualifiers for the Training Period under the 
open stream in the posts of Railway technological 
Management assistant in Management assistant 
technological Service category Segment- 02 in Sri 
Lanka Railway department -2021" & the course, 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
252
& the year followed in German Railway technical 
training centre should be clearly indicated on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the 
application. any application received after the 
closing date will not be accepted.
General Manager in Railways.
General Manager's Office,
Sri Lanka Railway department,
P.b.355.
olcott Mawatha,
colombo 10.
(d)  candidate's signature in the application form & 
the admission card should have been attested by a  
principal of a Government school, a justice of peace. 
commissioner of oaths .attorney-at-law. Notary 
public, commissioned officer in the armed forces, an 
officer holding a gazette post in the police service or 
a staff officer holding permanent post whose annual 
initial salary is more than Rs. 240.360/=.
(e)  any application, which is not completed in every 
aspect, is rejected. No complaint that an application 
has been lost or delayed in post will be considered.
(f) Receipt of application forms will not be 
acknowledged. a notice will be published in the 
newspapers by the department of Examination as 
soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. if 
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such an advertisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. In such 
notification, it should be mentioned the title of the 
Examination, full name of the candidate, address & 
national identity card Number. in case of applicants 
outside colombo, a letter of request furnishing a fax 
number to which the admission card should be sent 
is important to be forwarded to the department of 
Examination with the object of sending a photocopy 
of the admission card by fax. in the instance of such 
an inquiry it would be advisable to keep photocopies 
of the application form and receipt kept at your 
possession, receipt of registration.
(g) the issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not mean that he/she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination.
10. a candidate will be required to prove his identity at 
the Examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for 
each subject the offers. for this purpose, any of the following 
documents will be accepted.
(a) National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of persons,
(b) Valid passport
11. any matter not provided in these regulations will 
be dealt with as determined by the General Manager in 
Railways. Every candidate is liable to act according to the 
general rules and regulations of this examination, indicated 
in this Gazette. further, in the event of inconsistency in the 
notification among Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, 
the Sinhala text shall be prevailed.
 M. J. d. 
Fernando, 
 General Manager in Railways.
on 25th January, 2021.
Application form
            (Office use only)
oPEN  coMPEtitiVE  ExaMiNatioN  foR 
REcRuitMENt  to GRadE iii of RaiLWay 
tEcHNoLoGicaL MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNt 
(MEcHaNicaL) aNd RaiLWay tEcHNoLoGicaL 
MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNt (ELEctRicaL) iN 
MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNt tEcHNoLoGicaL 
SERVicE catEGoRy SEGMENt - 2-2021
1.0  Medium
 Language Medium of Examination:
 Sinhala  – 1
 t amil  – 2
 English  – 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage) the application 
form should be in the language medium in which the 
candidate intends to sit the examination.
2.0 Personal Particulars :
  2.1 full name (in English block capital) :–––––––––.
   (ex.: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
  2.2 Last Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
   (ex.: GuNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.)

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
253
  2.3 full Name: (in Sinhala/ tamil)  :–––––––––––––.
  2.4 Permanent address (in English block capital)  
   :–––––––––––––.
   [admission card will be posted to this address] :
  2.5 Private address (in Sinhala/ tamil)  :–––––––––.
  2.6 Gender:- 
   [Please write the relevant number in the cage]
   Male  – 0
   female  – 1
  2.7 National identity card Number:
  2.8 civil status:- 
   (Please write the relevant number in the cage)
   unmarried  – 1
   Married  – 2
  2.9 Ethnicity : (Sinhala – 1, tamil – 2, indian tamil – 
3, Muslims – 4, others – 5)
   [Please write the relevant number 
   in the cage]
 2.10 date of birth: 
   y ear Month date
 2.11 Age as at the date the requisite qualifications 
should be filled 05.03.2021 :
   y ears Months  days
 2.12 Mobile Number:
3.0 Qualifications:
  3.1 Educational Qualifications-: G.C.E. (O/L)
 y ear :...................      index Number :....................
  Subject Pass
   1.  ………………………… ……………
   2.  ………………………… ……………
   3.  ………………………… ……………
   4.  ………………………… ……………
   5.  ………………………… ……………
   6.  ………………………… ……………
   7.  ………………………… ……………
   8.  ………………………… ……………
   9.  ………………………… ……………
   10.  ………………………… ……………
   G.c.E. (a/L)
 y ear :...................      index Number :....................
     Subject Pass
   1.  ………………………… ……………
   2.  ………………………… ……………
   3.  ………………………… ……………
   4.  ………………………… ……………
  3.2 title of the technical course :–––––––––.
   duration of the course: 
   y ear …………  from ………… t o …………
   followed in the German Railway technical 
training centre.
Note.– It is compulsory to attach herewith the certified 
photo copy of the certificate awarded after the 
completion of the training by the German Railway 
technical training centre.
4.0 Paste the copy of the receipt of payment of the 
Examination fee well :
  Paste only one edge of the receipt (original copy) 
here. (keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
5.0 declaration of the candidate :
 1 hereby declare that all the particulars furnished by 
me in this application are true & accurate to best of my 
knowledge & l have pasted the receipt, received by payment 
of the examination fee bearing the number ..................  & 
dated ................... 
i agree to follow the rules & regulations in this 
Examination & if it is found to-be disqualified as per the 
Service Minute recruitment inclusive of the Provisions on 
the Examination, i am liable to be cancelled my candidature 
prior or during or after the examination. further, i am liable 
to follow the rules & regulations, imposed by the General 
Manager in Railways.     
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
02-139

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
254
ministry of Irrigation 
Irrigation Department
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR tHE REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of tEcHNicaL 
aidE(MEcHaNicaL) – 2020
1. aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination to be held 
for the recruitment to the Post of technical aide (Mechanical)in the service category of Management assistant technical 
segment 03fallen vacant at the irrigation department.
1.1. Post expected to be recruited :
Designation Number of vacancies Grade to be recruited
technical aide (Mechanical) 08 Grade iii
1.2. Nature of the duties of the post :
Designation Assigned duties
technical aide (Mechanical) • to take over machines and vehicles brought to the mechanical 
workshops for repairs. 
• to supervise the duties of the junior employees attached to the 
Machinery division
2. Method of recruitment :
2.1. Recruitments are made on the results of a written competitive examination to be held by an institute 
approved by the director General of irrigation and a general interview. from those who passed the written 
examination, qualified persons will be selected by subjecting an equivalent number of applicants to the 
number of expected recruitments to the general interview according to merits of the total marks they 
obtained at written examination. 
2.2. The general interview is solely for checking the certificates and physical fitness of the applicant and not for 
allocating marks.  
3. Salary scale.- as per the schedule ii of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016, the monthly salary 
applicable for this post is Rs. 29,840/= - 10x300 - 11x 350 – 10x 560 – 10x 660-Rs. 48,890/= (Mt1- 2016). 
4. Conditions for engagement in service and service conditions :
4.1. this post is permanent and pensionable. Shall be subjected to the policy decisions taken in future by the 
government regarding the relevant pension scheme.
4.2. The appointment is subjected to a probationary period of 03 years. First Efficiency Bar Examination shall 
be passed within 3 years from the date of recruitment to Grade iii of technical aide as mentioned in the 
scheme of recruitment.
4.3. As per the Public Administration Circular No. 18/2020, the proficiency of the other relevant language 
shall be obtained within 03 years from the date of recruitment. 
4.4. this appointment is subjected to the Procedural Rules of Public Services commission, the Establishment 
codes of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and other departmental orders. 
5. Age limit-. age shall be not less than 18 and not more than 35 years at the closing date of applications.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
255
6. Required Qualifications :
6.1. Educational Qualifications :
6.1.1. Shall have passed the G.c.E (ordinary Level) Examination in six(06) subjects including Language 
or Literature, Mathematics and Science in not more than two sittings
6.2. Vocational Qualifications :
 Shall have obtained the relevant certificate (NCT- mechanical) for passing the three year part time National 
Certificate Course (Mechanical) from a technical college recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission or having obtained a similar certificate issued by an institute recognized by the 
tertiary and V ocational Education commission.
6.3. Physical fitness :
 Every applicant shall be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the post and to serve in any part 
of Sri Lanka.
6.4. Other qualifications :
6.4.1. Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka
6.4.2. Shall be of excellent moral character
6.4.3. Qualifications required for appearing for the examination are accepted as fulfilled only if the 
applicant has completed all the relevant qualifications and the specified age limit in all aspect by the 
date mentioned in the notification for calling the applications.
7. Furnishing false information.– if any information mentioned in the application sent by you is found to be false 
or incorrect prior to the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such information is revealed after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to dismiss you from service, subjected to relevant procedures. 
8. Procedure of examination.–  Examination is a written test consisting two subjects. the examination shall be 
conducted in Sinhala and tamil media and the medium which is applied for cannot be changed subsequently.
Question paper/Subject area Duration Total marks Pass Marks
intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
Subject related technical test 01 hour 100 40
8.1. Syllabus for the examination :
1. intelligence test
Name of the Question paper Syllabus
intelligence test consists of questions to judge the logical thinking, analytical 
thinking power and decision making ability of the candidate
2. Subject related technical test 
Name of the Question paper Syllabus
Subject related technical test consist of questions to assess the basic mathematical knowledge 
and basic mechanical engineering knowledge
8.2. This examination will be held in the district of Colombo and several selected districts in April 2021. The final 
decision relating to the postponement or cancellation of the examination is rested with the director General of 
irrigation.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
256
9. Preparation and Submission of the application :
9.1. the application shall be prepared by the 
candidate themselves on paper sized 21x29 cm 
(a4) using both sides and topics from 1- 6 to 
appear on page 01, from 7-11on page 02, from 
12-14 on page 03 and No. 15 on page 04. 
9.2. applicants who are already in Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service shall send their 
applications through the Heads of their 
departments and applicants who are serving in 
state cooperations,local government institutions 
etc. shall send their applications through the 
Heads of their institutions, on or before the 
prescribed date.
9.3. applications shall be prepared in the medium 
you are appearing for the examination.
9.4. applications that do not comply with the 
specimen application and are not completed in 
every aspect shall be rejected without notice.
9.5. Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. 
complains regarding applications lost in the post 
will not be entertained.
9.6. issuance of an admission card to sit for the 
examination does not mean accepting that the 
candidate has fulfilled the requirements for the 
post.
9.7. the words “Recruitment to the post of technical 
aide (Mechanical)” shall be clearly mentioned 
on the top left corner of envelope enclosing the 
application. 
9.8. the signature of an applicant shall be attested 
by a Principal of a Government school, Justice 
of Peace, commissioner of oaths, Notary 
Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed 
forces, an Officer holding a gazetted post 
in the Police Service or an officer holding a 
permanent position in a tertiary or senior level 
in Public Service as per the grading of Public 
administration circular No. 06/2006.
9.9. Final decision on filling vacancies, not filling 
vacancies or filling some of the vacancies and 
all other particulars is reserved by the director 
General of irrigation.
10. Sending the application. – completed application 
form shall be sent by registered post to reach the following 
address on or before 5th March 2021.
director General of irrigation,
irrigation department,
230, bauddhaloka Mawatha,
colombo 07.
11. Appearing  for the examination.– a candidate shall 
submit his/her admission card to the supervisor. candidates 
who are unable to submit the admission card shall not be 
allowed to sit for the examination. a candidate shall sit 
for the examination in the same examination hall he/she is 
assigned to. 
12. Identity of the candidate.– a candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor. for this purpose, any of the 
following documents shall be accepted. 
(a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registrations of Persons,
(b) Valid passport.
13. if there is any inconsistency among the Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of this gazette notification, the Sinhala text 
will prevail.
 Eng. K. d. 
nihaL Siriwardana,
 director General of irrigation.
irrigation department,
colombo 07,
on  02nd february 2021.
Specimen appLication Form
open competitive examination For the recruitment to the 
poSt oF technicaL aide (mechanicaL) FaLLen v acant at the 
irrigation department- 2020
(For office use only)
01.  Language medium of examination:
  Sinhala - 1
  t amil  - 2
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
257
02.  Post applied for : ............................................................
03. 3.1 Name with initials (initials at the end) :
  (Mr/Mrs/Miss).
  in Sinhala/t amil : ....................................................
   .................................................................................
  in English (in block capitals) :  ................................
   ................................................................................. 
 (e.g. :PERERa, a. b. c.)
 3.2 Name in full:
  in Sinhala/t ami : .....................................................
   .................................................................................
  English (in block capitals):......................................
   .................................................................................
04.  National identity card No. :
05.  Sex (indicate the relevant number in the cage) :
  Male    -  M
  female -  f
06. 6.1 Permanent address (legibly):
  in Sinhala/t amil:  ....................................................
   ................................................................................. 
  in English (block capitals):  .....................................
   .................................................................................
 
 6.2  address to which the admission card shall be sent:
  in Sinhala/ tamil:  ...................................................
  in English (block capitals):  .....................................
07.  telephone No.:  
  fixed  : .....................................................................
  Mobile : ...................................................................
08.  Residence: 
 8.1 district of residence :  ..............................................
 8.2 divisional Secretary’s division:  ............................ 
09.  Marital status
  unmarried   - 1 
  Married       - 2
10. 10.1 date of birth:
  date:               Month:                year: 
 10.2  age as at closing date (05/03/2021) of applications:
  years:                   Months :                days :
11.  Educational Qualifications :
 11.1 Particulars of G.c.E. (ordinary Level) examination
  first attempt:
 i. y ear and the month of the examination :…………
 ii. admission No. : ………………………
 iii. Results: ………………………………… 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
        Second attempt:
 i. y ear and the month of the examination :…………
 ii. admission No.: ………………………
 iii. Results: ………………………………… 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
12. V ocational Qualifications:
Studied 
course
Institute Period of 
study
Certificate 
number and 
valid date
  Attach a copy of the relevant certificate. 
13.  declaration of the applicant
i ……………………………… hereby certify that all the 
particulars given here are true and correct and also certify 
that i have not been expelled from public service or not 
compelled to retire on inefficiency as sympathetic alternative 
or treated as a person who have vacated the post. i am aware 
that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false 
or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified before selection 
and dismissed from service without any compensation if it 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
258
is found after selection. I agree to serve at work sites in the field of irrigation in any part of Sri Lanka if I am appointed to 
this post.
 ……………………………,
 Signature of the applicant.
date: ……………… 
14. attestation of the applicant’s signature:
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss  …………….......................………… who submits this application is known 
to me personally and that he/she placed his signature under the above Para 13 in my presence on ………………………… 
 …………………………… 
 Signature of the attesting officer.
date: ………………
Name of the attesting officer: …………………… 
designation: …………………………… 
address: ………………………………… 
(Certify by placing the official seal)
15.  Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution :
 (only for the applicants who are currently in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service)
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ……………................................… who is submitting this application is an 
officer holding the post of …………………. in ……………………… and the information he/she has furnished above is 
correct. further, he/she can/cannot be released from the service if he/she is selected for this post.
 …………………………………,
 Signature of the Head of the department/ institution
 and the official seal.
date: ………… 
02–336

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
259
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'02'05
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.02.2021
260
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2021
 fEbRuARy 05.02.2021 friday — 22.01.2021 friday 12 noon
  12.02.2021 friday –– 29.01.2021 friday 12 noon
  19.02.2021 friday –– 05.02.2021 friday 12 noon
  25.02.2021 thursday –– 12.02.2021 friday 12 noon
 mARCh 05.03.2021 friday — 19.02.2021 friday 12 noon
  12.03.2021 friday –– 25.02.2021 thursday 12 noon
  19.03.2021 friday –– 05.03.2021 friday 12 noon
  26.03.2021 friday –– 12.03.2021 friday 12 noon
 APRIL 01.04.2021 thursday — 19.03.2021 friday 12 noon
  09.04.2021 friday –– 26.03.2021 friday 12 noon
  16.04.2021 friday –– 01.04.2021 thursday 12 noon
  23.04.2021 friday –– 09.04.2021 friday 12 noon
  30.04.2021 friday –– 16.04.2021 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2021.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.