

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1177
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1172
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"021 – 2017 uehs ui 26 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'05'26
No. 2,021 –  fRiday ,  may  26, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th  June, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd June, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1169-B 81173- 5,403(05/2017)
N. B.–  (i)  Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,020 of 19.05.2017 was not published.
Note.–   (i) abdul majeed academy (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 19, 2017. 
 (ii) Sugathadasa National Sports complex authority (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 19, 2017. 
 (iii) Wijeya Udana foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 19, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1170
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1171
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1172
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
For the Position of Legal Officer (Executive Service Category Grade III) Recruitment on 
Open Competitive Basis in the Registrar General's Department
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from citizens of Sri Lanka, who possess following qualifications to for the post of 
Legal Officer in the Registrar General's Department. 
1.0 Recruitment procedure.– Qualified candidates as per the Notification shall be placed to a structured interview 
conducted by a panel of interviews appointed by the Public Service commission and the candidate who score the highest 
marks shall be recruited as for the existing vacancy, accordingly. the structured interview shall be conducted in compliance 
with marking procedure (mentioned under No. 06, herein) approved by the Public Service commission.
2.0 Qualifications Required :
 i. Educational/Professional Qualifications :
  candidate should Possess a LLB degree from a University recognized by the University Grants commission 
or should have taken oaths as an attorney-at-Law at a magistrate court.
 ii. experience :
  minimum of 03 years professional experience in the same capacity after taking oaths as an attorney-at-
Law at a magistrate court.
 iii. Physical Fitness :
  Every Applicant shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and to perform duties 
of the post.
 iV . Other qualifications :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* applicants shall be of excellent character
* Required qualifications for this examination shall have been completed in every aspect by on or 
before the date of vacancy notification/Gazette Notification
* Exceptionally fluent in English
3.0 Conditions of recruitment and Service :
 (i) this post is permanent ;
 (ii) Appointment shall be subject to a probationary period of three years. First Efficiency Bar Examination 
shall be passed within 03 years from the date of recruitment to Legal Officer Grade III as prescribed in 
the recruitment procedures.
 (iii) Pursuant to the Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014, it is required to acquire 
prescribed standard of language proficiency before expiry of five (05) years from the date of duty assume.
 (iv) a selected candidate shall be subject to the procedural regulations of Public Service commission, relevant 
provisions of the Establishments Code and Financial Regulations, government financial regulations and 
other departmental orders of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
4.0 Age limits .– The applicants should not be not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the 
closing date of the applications.
5.0 Salary Scale.– Pursuant to the Schedule I of the Public Administration Circular 03/2006 dated 25.02.2016, 
the monthly salary scale relevant to this position is Rs. 47,615/- 10x1,335-8x1,630- 17x2,170 - Rs. 110,895(SL-1-2016). 
your salary shall be paid as per the Schedule ii in compliance with the orders of aforesaid circular.
Posts – vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1173
6.0 marking procedure for the structured interview shall be based upon following;
   Subject  Maximum Marks
 01 Additional Educational Qualifications  20
  LLB degree obtained from a University recognized by the University 
  Grants commission
    -  for a first class pass 20
    -  for a second class upper 15
    -  for a second class lower 10
  For a first class pass in the final year at the Law College 15
  For a second class pass in the final year at the Law College 10
  (Marks shall only be given for the highest qualifications obtained - only for 
  a degree or qualifications obtained from Law College)
 02 Additional professional Qualifications  15
  For a post graduate diploma in the relevant field not less than one year, offered
  by a university or institution recognized by the University Grants commission
  or Post Law diploma course
  (05 marks for each diploma)
  For a diploma course in the relevant field not less than six (06) months offered
  by a recognized institution
  (03 marks for each diploma)
  For a certificate course in the relevant field not less than three (03) months 
  offered by a recognized institution
  (02 marks for each certificate course)
 03 additional Experience  30
  Experience as an attorney-at-Law in the public service or Private Sector
  - more than 06 months and less than 01 year - 02 marks
  - a maximum of 30 marks at 05 marks for each years
  (Excluding the period of 03 years of service to be qualified to become an
  attorney-at-Law)
  (Additional experience should be certified by a certificate obtained from
  an attorney-at-Law who possessed 20 years experience as a lawyer,
  Present's Counsel or a Judge)
 04 Proficiency in Information Technology  15
  -  for following information technology as a major subject for the degree 
     offered by a University recognized by the University Grants commission 15
  -  for a diploma course in information technology, not less than 01 year 
     or 1500 hours, offered by institution recognized by the government 10
  - For a certificate course on Information Technology, offered by institution 
   recognized by the government
  -  06 months/720 hours 07
  -  03 months/360 hours 05

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1174
 05 Proficiency in English Language  15
  Followed Post graduate degree/basic degree/LLM/LL degree in  15
  English medium
  (all the relevant questions papers should have been answered in English)
 06 Skills and performance shown at the interview  05
 07 aggregate marks  100
7.0  Identity of the candidate .– only the candidates who submit applications in full compliance to the notice 
shall be called for the structured interview. All certified copies of the testimonials and duly produced copies should be 
submitted at the interview.
Following identity cards shall be accepted at the interview as means of identity verification of the candidates.
 (i) National identity card issued by the commissioner of the department of the Registrations of persons
 (ii) Valid passport
8.0  Submission of application :
 (a) applicatio ns should be forwarded under registered cover to the address hereunder, on or before 
26.06.2017 applications received after the closing date shall be rejected. 
  Registrar General,
  Registrar General's Department,
  234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
  Battaramulla
 (b) "Recruitment of Legal Officer in the Registrar General's Department" should be mentioned on the top 
left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
 (c) Candidate's signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government 
School/ a Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Notary Public/ Commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces, or a Government Officer holding a permanent post in the government 
drawing a monthly consolidated salary of not less than Rs. 22,935/-.
 (d) all the candidates who are already employed by any of the government institute should submit their 
applications through the respective heads of their institutions they are attached to.
 (e) all applications that are not in compliance with the specimen application form given here shall be 
rejected. No complains  with regard to lost or late application shall be accepted. Please indicate the name 
of examination in English in the specimen application forms that are submitted either in Sinhal or tamil 
medium. The application should be prepared in paper of 22-29 cm (A4) by using both sides in such a 
manner that heading (1)-(5) appear on the first page and rest of the headings) appear on the second page 
and pertinent information/details should be filled by applicant's own hand writing.
 (f) calling letter for the structured interview shall be forwarded to the address stated in the application.
9.0  Submission of false information.– if the information furnished by the candidate are found to be false, 
inaccurate or incorrect, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case of such false, inaccurate information are found 
after the recruitment, actions shall be taken to dismiss from the service subject to other relevant actions.
   Subject  Maximum Marks

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1175
10. Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or to refrain from filling the vacancy.
on the order of Public Service commission
 Neil De alwis, 
 Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
Battaramulla.
SPEcimEN  aPPLicatioN  foRm
structureD iNterview for recruitmeNt of legal officer iN the registrar geNeral's office - 2017
 medium opted for the interview
 (for office use only)
Indicate the relevant number in the cage: Sinhala 2/ Tamil 3
 1.  (i) Name with initials (initials at the end) :––––––––––.
    in English (Block capitals)
    ex.:- GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K
   (ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
    in English (Block capitals)
   (iii) Name with initials :––––––––––.
    (in Sinhala/ Tamil)
   (iv) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––.
    (in Sinhala/ Tamil)
 2.  address in full :
   (i) Permanent Residential address :––––––––––.
    in English (Block capitals)
   (ii) Permanent Residential address :––––––––––.
    (in Sinhala/ Tamil)
   (iii) address to which calling letter for the interview should be sent (in English Block capitals) :––––––––––.
   (iv) telephone Number :––––––––––.
 3. Sex :- female  - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
     male  - 0
 4. Marital status :- Married  - 1 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
     Unmarried  - 2
 5.  (i) date of birth:- y ear month date
   (ii) age as at 26.06.2017:- y ears  months  days
 6. National identity card No. :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1176
 7. Details of the qualifications obtained as at the date of notification for the interview :
  Qualification Institute where it obtained Date of obtained
  .................................. ....................................... .................................
  .................................. ....................................... .................................
 8. date of taken oaths as an attorney-at-Law at a magistrate court :––––––––––.
 9. Relevant details of respective qualifications obtained, under No. 06 of the notice for calling applications :
     Qualification Institute where it obtained Date of obtained
  1.  Additional Educational qualifications :
   (i)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (ii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (iii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
  2. Additional Professional qualifications
   (i)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (ii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (iii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
  3. additional Experiences
   (i)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (ii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (iii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
  4. Proficiency in English Language
   (i)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (ii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (iii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
  5. computer Literacy
   (i)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (ii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
   (iii)  .................................. ....................................... .................................
 10. attestation of the signature of the applicant - 
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me are true and accurate and futher declare that i shall be abided 
by all the orders with regard to conducting the structured interview and the decision taken with regard to release of results 
by the Public Service commission
     –––––––––––––––––,
     Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
 11. Attestation of Applicants' Signature :
 I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... (full name), the aforesaid applicant, is known to me personally 
and that he/she placed his/her signature before me.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attester official frank.
Name of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1177
 12. Recommendation of the Head of the department :
 I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who is submitting this application is serving this in this 
department and the particulars furnished by him/her are true and accurate and futher certify that he/she could be released 
from his/her present post, if  selected for the position.
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Department/ Authorized Officer.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Place official frank)
05-634
mINISTRy Of fINANCE 
Sri Lanka Customs Department
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to tHE PoStS of aSSiStaNt 
SUPERiNtENdENt of cUStomS, GRadE ii 
DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA CUSTOMS -2017
tHE open competitive Examination for recruitment to 
the posts of assistant Superintendent of customs, Grade 
ii of the Sri Lanka customs department will be held by 
the commissioner General of Examinations in September 
2017, only in colombo.  the date of the examination will 
be notified in due course through the newspapers. The 
Sri Lanka customs department  reserves the right of 
postponing or cancelling this examination.
applications are invited for these posts from both males 
and females possessing the qualifications given below:
02. eligibility:- 
 (i)  Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof 
to the fact that he/she:
 (a)  is a citizen of Sri Lanka 
 (b)  is of excellent moral character,
  (c)  is not less than 22 years and not more than 
28 years of age, as at the closing date of 
applications. (accordingly, only those who 
were born on or before 23.06.1995 or born 
on or after 23.06.1989 are eligible to apply 
for this post)
Note.- No person ordained in any religious sect 
shall be permitted to sit this examination.
 (ii)  Physical requirements.– in the case of males, 
their height should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches 
and chest should not be less than 33 inches (when 
expanded). in the case of females their height 
should not be less than 5 feet 3 inches.
 (iii)  Educational qualifications.–  the candidates 
must possess the following educational 
qualifications:- 
 (a)  a degree obtained from a recognized 
university; 
and 
 (b)  at least a credit pass in English language 
as a subject at the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level). Examination 
(English language as an optional subject is 
not considered) ;
or 
 (c)  a Simple pass (minimum) in English 
Language as a subject at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
Examination.
Note.– No person will be eligible to sit this 
examination, on pending results of a degree 
Examination. However a person who has 
passed a degree of a recognized University may 
be permitted to sit this examination, when an 
official letter obtained from the Registrar of the 
University is produced to the effect, that he/she 
has passed the degree examination.
03. Conditions of Service :
 (i) Salary.– the consolidated monthly salary 
scale attached to the post is as follows:-
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1178
  MN -5   Rs. 34,605 - 660X10 – 755X11- 
930X15 - Rs. 63,460 (As per Public 
Administration circular No.3/2016).
  (the provisions of the Public administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 will be applicable 
in paying salaries from 01.01.2016 to 
01.01.2020).
 (ii)  the post is permanent  and will be subject to 
the policy decision taken by the government, 
regarding the pension scheme in future.
 (iii)  Successful candidates will be appointed 
subject to a probationary period of three years 
with effect from the date of appointment.
 (iv)  the appointees must undergo a medical 
examination held by a Government medical 
Officer to test whether he/she is physically fit 
to serve in any part of the island. 
 (v)  the appointees are bound to serve day and 
night in any part of the island.
 (vi)  the attention is invited to the General 
conditions applicable to the posts in Public 
Service which have been published at the 
beginning of part i: Section (iia) of the 
Government Gazette notification.
04. Scheme of examination.- the Scheme of examination 
for recruitment is as follows :    
   
  Marks 
(01)  aptitude test (01 Hour)                100
(02)  English Language (01 ½ hours)     100
            total  200
Aptitude paper.– this paper will consist of 50 multiple 
choice questions and questions for short answers, to 
test the language skills, the ability in mathematical and 
logical reasoning of the candidate. all questions should be 
answered.
english Language paper.– this paper will test the 
reading, writing, comprehension and communication skills 
of the candidates. all questions should be answered.
Note:-  this examination  will be conducted in all 
the three languages Sinhala, tamil and English. 
candidates should sit this examination in the 
same medium in which they passed the qualifying 
examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) of this 
notification. (i.e. Sinhala or tamil or English), or 
in the Official Language. It is not permitted to 
change the language medium applied. 
 (i) marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting 
and wrong spelling. 
 (ii) admission cards of the examination will be sent 
by the commissioner General of Examinations 
to the candidates who forward applications to 
sit the examination. the receipt of an admission 
card must not be treated as a fulfillment of 
qualifications to sit the examination.  
 (iii) Evaluation: candidates who score 60% or above 
in each paper will be listed in a priority list based 
on the aggregate marks. a number of candidates 
equivalent to the number of vacancies will be 
called for the structured interview according 
to merits, starting from the candidate who has 
obtained the highest aggregate marks. maximum 
of 10 marks will be awarded for the sports talents 
at the structured interview. Subsequently, the 
successful candidates will be referred to a general 
interview in which no marks will be awarded 
and information regarding qualifications of the 
candidates will be verified at this interview.
Marks Awarding procedure at the structured interview:
marks for individual sports at the zonal level : 3 
marks for the first place, 2 marks for the second 
place, and 1 mark for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the district level : 4 
marks for the first place, 3 marks for the second 
place, and 2 marks for the third place. 
marks for individual sports at the national level : 5 
marks for the first place,4 marks for the second 
place and 3 marks for the third place
marks for a member of a team game at the zonal 
level: 3 marks for the first place,2 marks for the 
second place, and 1 mark for the third place.
marks for member of a team game at the district 
level: 4 marks for the first place, 3 marks for the 
second place, and 2 marks for the third place.
marks for a member of a team game at the national 
level: 5 marks for the first place 4 marks for the 
second place and 3 marks for the third place.
05. Basis of selection.– candidates who are successful at 
the written examination and the interview will be selected 
for conferment of appointments, subject to the number of 
vacancies approved by the ministry of finance. Not more 
than 10% of the number of vacancies of the combined 
cadre will be reserved for female candidates.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1179
05. (i) Release of results: - the results list prepared in 
order of merit based on aggregate marks obtained by the 
qualified candidates at the written examination and the 
structured interview will be sent to the director General 
of customs by the department of Examinations.  the 
department of Examinations will issue the result to all 
candidates who sat the examination, by post or will publish 
result in the official website www.results.exams.gov.lk
Note:- the nature of the work in customs department 
is such that even the female officers will have to 
perform night duties.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she 
should have fulfilled all the required qualifications prior to 
the date of closing applications for the examination.  
07. Method of application:-
 (i) a  specimen form of the application has been 
given at the end of this notification. Candidates 
should prepare their application forms 
themselves in the medium which they intend to 
sit the examination conforming to the specimen 
form referred to above and fill them in their own 
handwriting. Every cage of the application must 
be filled by the candidates as instructed and if 
there are cages not applicable, the words “not 
applicable” should be entered in such cages. it 
must be strictly noted that leaving blank cages in 
the application will cause the applications liable 
to be rejected. (Heading numbers 01 to 06 of the 
specimen form should be on the first page, 07 to 
11 in the second page, and the rest in the third 
page of the application which should be prepared 
in A4 size papers). The title of the examination 
should be written in English too, in Sinhala and 
tamil applications. Retaining a copy of the duly 
filled application with the candidate may be more 
appropriate.
 (ii) the completed application form must be sent by 
registered post on or before 23.06.2017 to reach 
the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, P.B.1503, 
colombo. any applications received after 
the due date will be rejected. the name of the 
examination should be written clearly on the top 
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the 
application is enclosed. 
 (iii) the examination fee is Rs. 750. this fee should 
be paid at any Post office /Sub Post office to the 
credit of the revenue head number 2003-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examinations.  
money orders or stamps will not be accepted for 
the payment of examination fee. the receipt must 
be attached to the application and it is advised 
to retain a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate. this fee will not be refunded under 
any circumstances or not be transferred in lieu of 
a payment for another examination.
 (iv) candidates who are already employed in 
Government Departments/ Corporations/ Boards 
must forward their applications through the 
Heads of their department or institutions in 
which they are serving at present. candidates 
are requested to forward their applications to 
heads of their departments or institution well 
on time with a request that they be transmitted 
to the commissioner General of Examinations 
so as to reach him on or before 23.06.2017. 
the applications should not be sent addressing 
personally to the director General of customs or 
any other officer of the Department. Applications 
received after the due date; even if they are 
forwarded by the departments will be rejected. 
applications of the applicants who are in the 
Government Service will be rejected if the 
attestation of the signature of the applicant does 
not bear the signature and the official seal of the 
Head of Department/ Head of the Institution.
  (v)  Attestation:- the signature of an applicant who 
is in Government Service should be attested 
by his/her Head of Department or by an officer 
authorized to do so on his behalf. the signature 
of other applicants should be attested by a person 
authorized to do so, i.e a Justice of Peace, a 
commissioner of oaths, attorney - at - Law, 
a Notary Public, a Principal of a Government 
School, a Commissioned Officer of the Navy, 
Air Force or Army, a permanent Public Officer 
drawing an annual salary of  Rs. 240,360/= or 
over, a chief incumbent or a Head of a Buddhist 
temple or any other religion in charge of a place 
of worship or holding a position of importance.
08. (i) Admission to the examination:-  on the 
presumption that applications have been 
forwarded by persons who have fulfilled 
the qualifications referred to in the Gazette 
notification, admission cards will be issued by 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
to all candidates who are within the age 
limit mentioned in the Gazette notification 
and have paid the prescribed examination 
fee and submitted the accurately completed 
applications on or before the closing date 
including the name of the city and medium 
intended to appear for examination, signature 
of the applicant, the attestation of the 
signature and the attestation of the Head of 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1180
the department (if applicable) along with the 
receipt of the payment.
        immediately after the issuance of admission 
cards to the candidates a newspaper 
advertisement will be published by the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. 
If a candidate does not receive his/her 
admission card even after two or three 
days of such advertisement, he /she should, 
without any delay, inform the department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka regarding non- 
receipt of the admission cards, as mentioned 
in the notification. In making such an 
inquiry, full name of the candidate, address, 
National identity card No. and name of the 
examination should accurately be mentioned. 
in case of an applicant residing outside 
colombo it will be more appropriate to 
contact the department forwarding a letter of 
request including the above details and a fax 
number to receive the admission card (to the 
fax number referred to in the notification). It 
will be more successful to retain a certified 
photocopy of the application with the paying 
receipt and the registered post no. readily 
available with the candidate to produce as a 
proof of such information requested by the 
department of Examinations.
 (ii) a  candidate must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every 
candidate must get his signature attested in 
advance and hand over the admission card 
to the supervisor on the first day he/she 
presents himself/herself for the examination. 
A candidate who fails to produce his/her 
admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the rules for candidates have 
been indicated separately in part i: Section ii 
(a) of this Gazette  notification. Candidates 
will be bound by the rules of Examination.
 (iii) No notification of receipt of applications 
will be issued to the applicants. candidates 
will be subject to the rules and regulations 
enacted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations with respect to the conduct of 
examinations and release of the results. in 
case of violating these rules and regulations, 
he/ she will be liable to a punishment to be 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.  
Note :- the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
09. Identity of the candidates.- candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject. any of 
the following documents will be accepted for this purpose:
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Person.
 (b) A valid passport issued no more than five years 
before the date of examination.
  the candidature of a candidate who fails 
to produce a document referred to above is 
liable to be cancelled at the discretion of the 
commissioner General Examinations.
10. Documents of eligibility :-
 (i) No documents, certificates or photocopies 
of such certificates, other than the receipt of 
examination fee and the document relating 
to the “Note” referred to under heading 02 
(if applicable) should be forwarded with the 
application. But the necessary particulars 
should be provided in the form, as prescribed. 
incomplete applications will be rejected.
 (ii) Candidates, who are qualified to be called for 
the interview, should prove their eligibility by 
producing documentary proof. 
 (iii) the originals of the following documents will 
be required:
 (a)  A certificate of moral character signed by 
a responsible person.
Note: The certificate of character may be obtained 
from a Justice of the Peace, attorney – at - law, 
divisional Secretary of the area of residence, or 
a permanent Government officer in receipt of 
an annual consolidated salary of Rs.240,360/= 
or over, or some person whose name is known 
and reference can be directly made. the 
designation and address of the person who issues 
the certificate must be clearly indicated on the 
certificate. (Candidates holding permanent posts 
in Government service will not be required to 
furnish certificates of moral character)
 (a)  A certified copy of the entry of the 
registration of the birth of candidate or a 
Special Certificate of age issued by the 
Register General (in the case of candidates 
whose birth has been not registered)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1181
 Note:
 (i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued 
for school or educational purposes, 
or a certified extract from the birth 
registration entry will not be accepted.
 (ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates 
will not be accepted as substitutes for 
birth certificates.
 (iii) If the name/names appearing in the Birth 
Certificate differs/differ from the name/
names which the candidate generally 
uses and the name under which the 
candidate sits the examination, action 
should be taken immediately in terms 
of Section 27 and 28 as the case may be, 
of the Births and deaths Registration 
act, (chapter 110) to get the name in 
the entry of the registration of birth 
amended.
 (iv) Certificate of Registration as a citizen 
of Sri Lanka or original official letter of 
acceptance of a claim to citizenship by 
descent (as applicable).
 (v) Original certificate of educational 
qualifications or where the certificate 
has not been issued, other relevant 
official documents. e.g. an official letter 
issued by a Registrar of a University 
to the effect that the candidate has 
passed the degree examination, result 
sheet issued to the candidate by the 
department of Examinations, stating 
that he/she has obtained a credit pass 
in English language at the General 
Certificate of Education (Ordinary 
Level) examination or simple pass 
in English language at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced 
Level) examination.
 (vi) documentary proof of achievements 
of sports at Zonal / District / National 
levels.
 (vii) candidates are advised to have all the 
necessary documents in readiness at 
the time of forwarding the application. 
any candidate who fails to produce the 
necessary documents or who delay in 
producing them when called for, will 
be made disqualified for appointment to 
this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars:- if 
a candidate is found to be ineligible according to the 
regulations for this examination, his/her candidature 
is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or 
after the examination.  if any of the particulars furnished 
by a candidate is found to be false to the best of his/
her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any 
material fact, or if it is proved, at any time during the 
period of his/her service that he/she was ineligible to sit the 
examination, he/she will be liable to immediate dismissal 
from the service. the candidature of those who do not 
strictly conform to the requirements laid down in this 
notification will be cancelled. 
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations 
will be dealt with at the discretion of the Secretary, to the 
ministry of finance. 
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 director General of customs,
 Sri Lanka customs department.
“customs House”,
No.40, Main Street,
colombo.
specimeN applicatioN form
opeN competitive examiNatioN for recruitmeNt to the 
posts of  assistaNt superiNteNDeNt  of customs, graDe ii 
DepartmeNt  of sri laNka  customs– 2017
 (for office use only)
medium in which you sit this examination: 
Sinhala  – 2 
tamil  – 3 
English  – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
01. Name of the applicant  :––––––––––––.
 1.1 Name in full (in Block Letters) :––––––––––––.
  (eg. : HERatH mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1182
 1.2 Name with initials at the end  :––––––––––––.
  (eg. GUNAWARDHANA, H.M.S.K)
 1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address: (in Block Letters) 
:––––––––––––.
 address to which the admission card should be sent  
:––––––––––––.
03. Particulars of the National identity card:
 3.1  Number of the identity card:
 3.2  date of issue: 
04. Sex:
  male   – 0 
  female  – 1 
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
05. (a) date of Birth :          
year month date
       (b) age on the closing date of application:
years months days
06. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
  By descent – 1       
  By registration – 2
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. Ethnicity: 
      Sinhalese – 1   ceylon tamil – 2
      Indian Tamil – 3 Muslim – 4
      Burgher – 5  other – 6
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
08. telephone Number  :
09. Physical requirements: 
       (i)  Height : ....…         feet: ....…         inches….
   (ii)  chest (when expanded) : ….. inches.
   (only for male candidates)
10. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the 
Court of Law? (Yes/No) :––––––––––––.
 if yes, give details :––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications:
Name of the 
University
Degree Class of 
Degree
Year Subjects
 (i)  Highest qualification in English Language at the 
examination of General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level)
  y ear :–––––––––––.
  index No. :–––––––––––.
 
 (ii) Highest qualification in English Language at the 
examination of General Certificate of Education 
(advanced Level)
  y ear :–––––––––––.
  index No. :–––––––––––.
12.  Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
 (i) Name of the Post Office /Sub Post Office :––––––.
 (ii)  amount Paid : Rs. :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of payment :––––––––––––.
 (iV)  Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
with the candidate)
(these particular should be given compulsorily).
13. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification:
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect before selection, I am subject to be disqualified 
or dismissal from the service without any compensation if 
it is revealed after selection. furthermore, i agree to abide 
by rules and regulations of the commissioner General of 
Examinations regarding the conducting of the examination.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1183
14.  Attestation of Applicant’s signature (Delete whichever 
inapplicable):
I Certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is 
submitting this application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this 
…………day of …..……2017. I also certify that he/she 
has paid the due examination fee and has attached the paid 
receipt.
Signature of attestor :–––––––––––.
full Name of attestor :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
Note: the attestation should be made by a person referred 
to in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification. 
15.  I Certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who 
is submitting this application is an employee of this 
Ministry/ Department/ Board/ Corporation. In the 
event of his/her selection for the above post he/she 
can be released. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the department :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address of the department :–––––––––––.
05-635
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of fINANCE 
Sri Lanka Customs Department
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR 
REcRUitmENt to tHE PoStS of iNSPEctoR of 
CUSTOMS, GRADE II DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA 
cUStomS– 2017
the open competitive Examination for recruitment to the 
Post of inspector of customs, Grade ii of the Sri Lanka 
customs department will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in September 2017, at the 
examinations centres established in main towns throughout 
the Island. The date of the examination will be notified 
in due course through the newspapers. the Sri Lanka 
customs department reserves the right of postponing or 
cancelling this examination.
centers where the examination will be held and the 
relevant city numbers
scheDule i
Province City City number
Western colombo
Gampaha
Kaluthara
01
02
03
central Kandy
mathale
Nuwaraeli
04
05
06
Southern Galle
mathara
Hambanthota
07
08
09
Northern Jaffna
mannar
Vavnia
mulathev
Kilinochchi
10
11
12
13
14
Eastern Battichalow
ampara
trinkomalee
15
16
17
North West Kurunegala
Puttalam
18
19
North central anuradhapura
Polonnaru
20
21
Uva Badulla
monaragala
22
23
Sabaragamu Rathnapura
Kegalle
24
25
in the event that a certain examination centre is not 
established in a certain city due to insufficient candidates, 
they are referred to a centre as per their second choice or 
a centre closest to that city. changes will not be allowed 
later with regard to the requested town. 
applications are invited for these posts from both sexes 
possessing the qualifications given below:
02. eligibility:-
 (i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof 
to the fact that he/she:
 
 (a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (b) is of excellent moral character,
 (c) is not less than 18 years and not more than 
24 years of age on the date of closing of 
applications.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1184
  (accordingly, only those who were born 
on or before 23.06.1999 or born on or after 
23.06.1993 are eligible to apply for this 
post).
Note :- No person ordained in any religious sect 
shall be permitted to sit this examination.
 (ii) Physical Requirements.– in the case of males, 
their height should not be less than 5 feet 5 
inches and chest should not be less than 33 
inches (when expanded).
  in the case of females their height should not be 
less than 5 feet 3 inches.
 (iii) Educational Qualifications. – Every candidate 
must possess the following educational 
qualifications:- 
 (a) Should have passed three main subjects 
in one sitting at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) ; and 
 (b) Should have passed six subjects at the 
General Certificates of Education (Ordinary 
Level) Examination in not more than two 
sittings with five credit passes including 
credit passes for Sinhala Language or 
tamil Language, and mathematics as 
main subjects and at least a simple pass for 
English Language. 
03. Conditions of Service  :–
 (i) Salary.– the consolidated monthly salary 
scale attached to the post is as follows:- 
  Rs.29,540-300 x7-370x27- Rs. 41,630.
  (RS-1 as per Public administration circular 
No.3/2016).
  (the provisions of the Public administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 will apply in paying 
salaries from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020). 
 (ii) the post is permanent and will be subject to 
the policy decision taken by the Government, 
regarding the pension scheme in future.
 (iii) Successful candidates will be appointed 
subject to a probationary period of three years 
with effect from the date of appointment.
 (iv) the appointees must undergo a medical 
examination held by a Government medical 
Officer to test whether they are physically fit 
to serve in any part of the island.
 (v) the appointees are bound to serve day and 
night on any part of the island.
 (vi) the attention is invited to the General 
conditions applicable to the posts in Public 
Service which have been published at the 
beginning of Part i: Section (iia) of the 
Government Gazette notification.
04. Scheme of examination.– there are three (03) 
question papers for the scheme of examination for 
recruitment, as follows:- 
   Marks 
 1. aptitude test (1 hour)   100
 2.  mathematics (1 hour)   100
 3.  English Language (1 1/2 hours) 100                                        
                          total 300
Aptitude paper.– this paper will consist of 50 
multiple choice questions and questions for 
short answers in order to test the language 
skills and the ability in logical reasoning. all 
questions should be answered.
Mathematics Paper.– this paper will consist of 
questions to test the ability in mathematics. all 
questions should be answered.
english Language paper.– this paper will test 
the reading, writing, comprehension and 
communication skills of the candidates. all 
questions should be answered.
Note :
 (i)  this examination will be conducted in all the 
three languages Sinhala, tamil and English. 
candidates should sit this examination in the 
same medium in which they passed the qualifying 
examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) of 
this notification. However, a candidate who has 
passed the qualifying examination in tamil or 
English medium or a candidate whose medium 
of study is tamil or English medium may answer 
in Sinhala medium at the Examination, if he 
desires. it is not permitted to change the language 
medium applied :
 (i) marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting 
and wrong spelling,

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1185
 (ii) admission cards of the examination will 
be sent to the eligible candidates by the 
commissioner General of Examination. 
However, the receipt of an admission card must 
not be treated as a fulfillment of qualifications 
to sit the examination. the candidates are 
bound by rules and regulations prescribed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
on conducting the Examination and if the 
candidates breach such rules and regulations 
they will be subject to the punishment imposed 
by him,
 (iii) evaluation.– marks of the candidates who 
obtain 60% or above for each question 
paper at the examination will be totaled 
and those candidates will be called for the 
structured interview in the descending order 
of totals according to the prevailing number 
of vacancies. maximum of 10 marks will be 
awarded for the sports talents at the structured 
interview. Subsequently, the successful 
candidates will be referred to a general 
interview in which no marks will be awarded, 
and marks obtained by candidates for the 
examination and the structured interview will 
only be taken into consideration.
Marks awarding procedure at the structured interview:
Marks for individual sports at the Zonal Level:
3 marks for the first place, 2 marks for the Second 
place, and 1 mark for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the District Level:
4 marks for the First place, 3 marks for the Second 
place, and 2 marks for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the National Level:
5 marks for the First place, 4 marks for the Second 
place, and 3 marks for the third place.
05. Basis of selection.– candidates who are successful at 
the written examination and the interview will be selected 
for conferment of appointments, subject to the number 
of vacancies approved by the ministry of finance. 10% 
of the number of vacancies will be reserved for female 
candidates.
05. (i) Release of results.– the results list prepared in 
order of merit based on aggregate marks obtained 
by the qualified candidates through the written 
examination and the interview will be sent to the 
director General of customs by the department of 
Examinations.the department of Examinations 
will communicate the results to all the candidates 
who sat the examination, by post or will publish 
in the official website www.results.examination.
gov.lk
Note: the nature of the work in Sri Lanka customs 
department is such that even the female staff 
has to perform the night duties.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she 
should have fulfilled all the required qualifications prior to 
the date of closing applications for the examination.
07. Method of application :– 
 (i) a  specimen form of the application has 
been given at the end of this notification. 
candidates should prepare their application 
forms themselves in the medium which they 
intend to sit the examination, conforming to the 
specimen form referred to above and fill them 
in their own handwriting. Every cage of the 
application must be filled by the candidates as 
instructed and if there are cages not applicable, 
the word “not applicable” should be entered 
in such cages. it must be strictly noted that 
leaving blank cages in the application is liable 
to be rejected. (Heading numbers 01 to 05 of 
the specimen form should be on the first page, 
06 to 11 in the Second page, and the rest in the 
third page of the application which should be 
prepared in A4 size papers.) The title of the 
examination should be written in English too in 
Sinhala and tamil applications.
 (ii) the completed application form must be sent by 
Registered Post on or before 23.06.2017 to reach 
the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, P.o. Box 1503, 
colombo. any applications received after the due 
date will be rejected. the name of the examination 
should be written clearly on the top left-hand 
corner of the envelope in which the application is 
enclosed.
  (It is advised to retain a photocopy of the filled 
application with the candidate).
 (iii) Examination Fee of Rs.600/=should be paid at 
any  Post Office /Sub Post office to the credit 
of Revenue Head Number 2003-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examinations. 
money orders or stamps are not accepted 
for the examination fee. the receipt must be 
attached to the application and it is advised 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1186
to retain a photocopy of the receipt with the 
candidate.this fee will not be refunded under 
any circumstances or not be transferred in lieu 
of a payment for another examination.
 (iv) candidates who are already employed in 
Government  Department /Boards/ Corporations 
must forward their applications through the 
Head of their departments or institutions in 
which they are serving at present. candidates 
are requested to forward their applications to 
Heads of their departments or institutions well 
on time with a request that they be transmitted 
to the commissioner General of Examinations 
so as to reach him on or before 23.06.2017
  the application should not be sent addressing 
personally to the director General of customs 
or any other officer of the Department. 
applications received after the due date; even 
if they are forwarded by the departments will 
be rejected. applications of the applicants 
who are in the Government Service will be 
rejected if the attestation of the signature of the 
applicant does not bear the signature and the 
official seal of the Head of Department/ Head 
of the institution, 
 (v) Attestation – the signature of an applicant who 
is in the Government Service should be attested 
by his/her Head of Department or by an officer 
authorized to do so on his behalf.
  the signature of other applicants should be 
attested by a person authorized to do so, i.e., a 
Justice of the Peace, a commissioner of oaths, 
attorney-at-low, a Notary Public, a Principal of 
a Government School,a Commissioned officer 
of the Navy, air force or army, a permanent 
public officer drawing an annual salary of               
Rs. 240,360 or over, a Chief Incumbent or a 
Head of a Buddhist temple or any other religion 
in charge of a place of worship or holding a 
position of importance.
08 (i) Admission to the examination.– on the 
presumption that applications have been forwarded by 
persons who have fulfilled the qualifications referred 
to in the Gazette Notification, admission cards will be 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations 
to all candidates who are within the age limit mentioned 
in the Gazette  Notification and have paid the prescribed 
examination fee and submitted the accuratel y completed 
applications on or before the closing date including 
the name of the city and medium intended to appear for 
examination, signature of the applicant, the attestation 
of the signature and the attestation of the Head of the 
department (if applicable) along with the receipt of the 
payment,.
immediately after the issuance of admission cards to the 
candidates a newspaper advertisement will be published by 
the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka. if a candidate 
does not receive his / her admission card even after two 
or three days of such advertisement, he / she should, 
without any delay, inform the department of Examinations 
of Sri Lanka regarding non- receipt of the admission 
cards, as mentioned in the notification. In making such 
an inquiry, full name of the candidate, address, National 
identity card No. and name of the examination should 
accurately be mentioned. in case of an applicant residing 
outside colombo it will be more appropriate to contact the 
department forwarding a letter of request including the 
above details and a fax number to receive the admission 
card (to the fax number referred to in the notification).It 
will be more successful to produce a certified photocopy of 
the application with the paying receipt and the registered 
post No. which should be readily available with the 
candidate as a proof of such information requested by the 
department of Examinations.
(ii) a candidate must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every candidate 
must get his signature attested in advance and hand over 
the admission card to the supervisor on the first day he/she 
presents himself/herself for the examination. A candidate 
who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be 
permitted to sit the examination. the rules for candidates 
have been indicated separately in part i: Section ii (a) of 
this Gazette Notification. All candidates will be bound by 
the said rules of the examination.
(iii) No notification of receipt of applications will be 
issued to the applicants. candidates will be subject to 
the rules and regulations enacted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations with respect to the conduct of 
examinations and release of the results. in case of violating 
these rules and regulations, he/ she will be liable to a 
punishment to be imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations.  
Note.– the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the 
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
09. Identity of the candidates.– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the Supervisor. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for this purpose:

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1187
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Person.
 (b) A Valid Passport issued not more than five years 
before the date of examination.
the candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a 
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner General Examinations.
10. Documents of eligibility :-
 (i)  No documents other than the receipt of 
examination fee should be forwarded with 
the application. But the necessary particulars 
should be provided in the form, as prescribed. 
incomplete applications will be rejected. 
 (II)  Candidates, who are qualified to be called for 
the interview, should prove their eligibility by 
producing documentary proof.
 (iii)  the originals of the following documents will 
be required: 
 (a)  A certificate of moral character signed 
by a responsible person.
Note.– The certificate of character may be obtained 
from a Justice of the Peace, attorney - at 
– law, divisional Secretary of the area of 
residence, or a permanent Government officer 
in receipt of an annual consolidated salary of 
Rs.240,360/= or over or some person whose 
name is known and to reference can be readily 
made. the name, designation and address of 
the person who issues the certificate must be 
clearly indicated on the certificate.
(candidates holding permanent posts in Government 
service will not be required to furnish certificates of moral 
character.)
 (b)  A certified copy of the entry of the 
registration of the birth of candidate 
or a Special Certificate of age issued 
by the Register General (in the case of 
candidates whose birth has been not 
registered).
 Note:-
 (i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for 
school or educational purposes, or a certified 
extract from the birth registration entry will not 
accepted.
 (ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be 
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.
  If the name/names appearing in the Birth 
Certificate differs/differ from the name/names 
which the candidate generally uses and under 
which the candidate sits the examination, action 
should be taken immediately in terms of Section 
27 or 28 as the case may be, of the Births and 
deaths Registration act, (chapter 110) to get 
the name in the entry of the registration of birth 
amended.
 (iii) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri 
Lanka or original official letter of acceptance of 
claim to citizenship by descent (as applicable).
 (iv) Original certificate of educational qualifications 
or where the certificate has not been issued, 
other relevant official documents.
 (v) documentary proof of achievements of sports at 
Zonal/ District/National Levels.
 (vi) candidates are advised to have all the necessary 
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding 
the application. any candidate who fails to 
produce the necessary documents or who delay 
in producing them when called for, will be made 
disqualified for appointment to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars.– if 
a candidate is found to be ineligible according to the 
regulations for this examination, his/her candidature is 
liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after 
the examination.
if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found 
to be false to the best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has 
willfully suppressed any material fact, or if it is proved, at 
any time during the period of his/her service that he/she 
was ineligible to sit the examination, he/she will be liable 
to immediate dismissal from the service. the candidature 
of those who do not strictly conform to the requirements 
laid down in this notification will be cancelled. 
12.  any matter not provided for in these regulations 
will be dealt with at the discretion of the director General 
of customs.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1188
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
director General of customs.
Sri Lanka customs department,
“customs House”
No.40, Main Street,
colombo 11. 
Specimen appLication form
opeN competitive examiNatioN for recruitmeNt to the 
posts of  iNspector of customs, graDe ii of sri laNka 
customs DepartmeNt –2017
(for office use only)
medium in which you sit this examination: 
Sinhala  – 2 
tamil  – 3 
English  – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
town selected and the town Number (See the Schedule i)
town town Number
1
2
01. Name of the applicant  :––––––––––––.
 1.1 Name in full (in Block Letters) :––––––––––––.
  (eg. : HERatH mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end  :––––––––––––.
  (eg. GUNAWARDHANA, H.M.S.K)
 1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/ Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent residential address: (in Block Letters) 
:––––––––––––.
 address to which the admission card should be sent  
:––––––––––––.
03. Particulars of the National identity card:
 3.1  Number of the identity card:
 3.2  date of issue: 
04. Sex:
  male   – 0 
  female  – 1 
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
05. (a) date of Birth :          
year month date
       (b) age on the closing date of application:
years months days
06. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
  By descent – 1       
  By registration – 2
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
07. Ethnicity: 
      Sinhalese – 1   ceylon tamil – 2
      Indian Tamil – 3 Muslim – 4
      Burgher – 5  other – 6
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
08. telephone Number  :
09. Physical requirements: 
       (i)  Height :   feet: ....…         inches….
   (ii)  chest (when expanded) : ….. inches.
   (only for male candidates)
10. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the 
Court of Law? (Yes/No) :––––––––––––.
 if yes, give details :––––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications:
 (i) General Certificate of Education (Advanced 
Level) in one sitting :
  y ear of Examination  :––––––––––––.
  index Number :––––––––––––.
Subjects Performance

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'05'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.05.2017
1189
 (ii) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary 
Level) :
Subjects Performance Year Index 
Number
 (iii) Have you obtained a simple pass for English 
Language at the General Certificate of Education 
(Ordinary Level) ? (Yes/No)
12.  Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
 (i) Name of the Post office /Sub Post office :––––––.
 (ii)  amount Paid : Rs. :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of payment :––––––––––––.
 (iv)  Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy 
with the candidate)
(these particulars should be given compulsorily).
13. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification:
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if 
any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
incorrect before selection, I am subject to be disqualified or 
dismissal from the service without any compensation if it is 
revealed after selection. furthermore, i agree to be bound  
by rules and regulations of the commissioner General of 
Examination regarding the conducting of the examination.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
14.  Attestation of Applicant’s signature (Delete whichever 
inapplicable):
I Certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………. who 
is submitting this application is personally known to me 
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on 
this …………day of ………2017. I also certify that he/
she has paid the due examination fee and has attached the 
paid receipt.
Signature of attester :–––––––––––.
full Name of attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
Note: the attestation should be made by a person referred 
to in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification. 
15.  I Certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………. who 
is submitting this application is an employee of this 
Ministry/ Department/ Board/ Corporation. In the 
event of his/her selection for the above post he/she 
can be released. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
 (Official Stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the department :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address of the department :–––––––––––.
05-636
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.