

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
177
177
wxl 1"638 - 2010 ckjdß ui 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'01'22
No. 1,638 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 22, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 28th January, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th
January, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 178
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,637 of 15.01.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
178
Provincial Council Notifications
YATIYANTHOTA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have been
prepared by the Yatiyanthota Pradeshiya Saba under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act, No.
15 of 1987 and shaped be conected with in the limit of Local Authority from that date the notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
SUB CONSTITUTION FOR CONTROL AND MINIMIZE THE DAMAGES CAUSED BY STRAY CATTLE,
YATIY ANTOTA PRADESHIY A SABHA
1. This constitution and recognized as the ordinance to take the stray cattle to the Pradeshiya Sabha custody or to stable or to organize
similar action to avoid, control or to minimizes the damages may be sausad by the stray cattle.
2. The owner of this sort of cattle, should keep them away from causing inconvenience to vehicles or pederasts who walk along th e
public road or in public places streets and other such place.
3. Taking the stray cattle to the custody or taking the cattle to a shed along the road which the thinks and correct, by anyone authorized
by the Pradeshiya Sabha president or secretary in considered as lawful.
4. An authorized person who take the stray cattle should take it to the shed allocated by the Pradeshiya Sabha, for the purpose as
quickly as possible and should obtain certificate, filling up the form maintained for the purpose as for the 01 sub constitution.
5. The authorized person who take cattle to his custody should give it to the person in charge of the attorsaid cattle shed, maintaining
the date, time, the place where he caught the cattle the kind, the sex, colour of the cattle, any identitification marks if any and should
get the document signed by the person in change. Confirming that he took charge of the cattle and the giver also should sing to prove
that he gave charge the cattle of the person concern. After doing so during the course of the duty hours of the office. He shou ld
produce the document with regard to the cattle to the secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha or anyother authorized officer there and should
get the document signed by him.
6. The person incharge of the cattle shed should maintain a record in connection to the detail of the cattle he took to his custody. The
date time of such and the date and time of the president or secretary's release order for the cattle and date and time when he released
the cattle.
7. The cattle should not be released in any circumstance without the order in writing from the president or secretary and should  be
ascertained that the cattle was given back to the stipulated person mentioned in the documentary order of the Pradeshiya Sabha
president or secretary.
8. It is the responsibility of the Pradeshiya Sabha - Yatiyantota to make provision for the stray cattle caught, to be stabled i n and to
supply food and water as well as security for the above cattle.
9. The Pradeshiya Sabha - Yatiyantota or any authorized person what so ever, for the cattle becoming sick or to its death from the time
it was taken to custody till it was released from the shed or any sort at compensation or any other damages will be paid by the
Pradeshiya Sabha or any authorized person.
10. Until and otherwise the amount specified by the Pradeshiya Sabha is paid by the owner of guardian of the cattle as fees for catching
the animal and for keeping in the shed and other purposes and ascertain the ownership the animal should not be released.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
179
11. If any owner or guardian to the cattle caught doesn't confirm or does not pay the specified amount and it the animal kept inside the
shed for not more than 07 days the president can use his descretion to auction the animal in sale or to grant the ownership to the one
who purchased the cattle becomes lawful.
12. After the auction sale the amount due for the Pradeshiya Sabha could be taken for the Sabha and the balance could be considered to
be given to the owner of the cattle. If he request for no regused of payment could be done after the completion of 06(six) months
period. In Sabha auction the balance amount will be credited to the general account.
13. If this sub constitution and violated any means or if the same owner does the same mistake for more than two accations if wi ll be
an offence and the Pradeshiya Sabha need not release, but could be straight away prosecuted at the courts of law and after finding
guilty for the offence according to Pradeshiya Sabha Ordinance of 1987 No. 15 Section No. 122(2). If he continues to do the same
violation over and over, such owner and eligible for an additional penalty in accordance with the Pradeshiya Sabha ordinance of 1987
No. 15 Section 122(2).
14. Should there be any contusions in the Tamil or English translations the Sinhala copy supercedes.
15. Meaning emphasises.
Should there be no other meaning essential the word mentioned as "Sinhala" in the sub constitution mean Yatiyantota Pradeshiya
Sabha.
The word "cattle" refers to cattle, buffalo, a pony" a hours, a sheep, goat, a pig also refer to any sex of the beast and refers to the
singular and plural forms of it.
The word "Public place" refer to a common place or bus stand around vehicle park, a tair, a school or school playground, a park a
lose to common building a place where the general public can enter freely are included to the word common place.
"Stray cattle" refer to any beast walking in a common place belong to the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha boundary limit or animals
tied or roaming or in any other manner entered in to but not the animal staying tied to a court for loading or unloading.
"Authorized person" refers to one who is authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha president to take any strayed cattle to his custody
and take to the shed allocated and with whom such power remains until there.
The word "shed" refers to the cattle shed maintained by, or put up now and then by the Pradeshiya Sabha to stable the stray cattle.
"Watcher" this refers to one who is appointed by the president of Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha in writing to keep watch over the
cattle tied in to the cattle shed and with whom such power remains.
Sub Constitution 01 :
Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha –
1. Details of the stray cattle taken to custody ;
2. Place where the beast was taken to custody ;
3. Kind of the animal, colour of the skin and other details ;
4. Date and time of the cattle handed over to the watcher.
Gave to the custody signature and name of the person Took charge, watcher signature and name of the watcher
who gave charge the cattle to the watcher. who took charge of the cattle.
01–534/1
–––––––––––––––
YATIYANTHOTA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me Article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
180
been prepared by the Yatiyanthota Pradeshiya Saba under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act,
No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the limit of Local Authority from that date the notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
SUB CONSTITUTION FOR YATIY ANTOTA PRADESHIYA SABHA LIMITA TION OF WEIGHT AND SPEED OF VEHICLE
AND ORGANIZATION OF DRIVING
1. This in known as the Sub Constitution of loading weight and speed and organization of driving purpose.
2. The purpose of this sub constitution and to limit the speed of vehicle and loading over weight and to see the roads which belong to
the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha excluding the road belong to any other authority are protected with deast damages.
3. Unless and otherwise a permit has obtained from the president Pradeshiya Sabha prior to this paying the amount mentioned in the
previous sub constitution the second ordinance means driving sub constitution the Second Ordinance means driving tipper, lorry,
tractor, road mecadamising engine, building raw materials including stone, sand ect, or any manufacturing row materials connected
to these transporting along the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha road is prohibited. Transporting timper per tractor or dragging logs or
anyother materials dragging is prohibited.
(i) any vehicles under went tire patches should be transported by another vehicle, but should no be driving along with any of the
Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha roads.
4. The speed limit in any of the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha road should no exceed 25Ks per hours.
5. If any person need transport any materials specified in the Second Section of the first part of this Sub Constitution, along the road
mentioned in the Second Part of this Sub Constitution such matter should be informed to the president or to his subodinate before
at least 3 days from the date of commencement of the work.
(ii) As soon as the request in according with the offoresaid 5.1 constitution made a report with regard to the work to be done should
be received through the T. O. or by any other authorized officer and should receive a specific amount as deposit should be taken
for the person who makes such request in order to coinside the amount may be caused as damages.
(iii) Permission should not be granted for the above work under 5.2 ordinance unless arrived for an agreement, after the receipt of
the payment and the depost for the one who wishes to start work on the road.
(iv) In case a request is made to release the deposited amount in accordance with the 5.3 ordinance stated above 10% of the
department amount. Plus the amount equl to coinside the damage caused if any. Should be deducated from the deposited
amount before releasing the deposit.
(v) If the president of the Pradeshiya Sabha decides that it is advisable to act in a tair manner before he would act in accordance with
the 5(5) rules he could count the head office of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(vi) If the damage caused exceads the deposit amount it is in order to request the deposit to pay the handhannced amount. If the
depositor refuse to do so he must charged to low court and such hanhanced amount must be recovered from him.
6. The contractor who has arrived to the agreement eith the Pradeshiya Sabha with regard to the development work of the Pradeshiya
Sabha, can make a request in writing to release the offersaid amount in accordance with first sub constitution.
7. Any police officer, Pradeshiya Sabha president, secretary or any authorised officer possed the power to examine or check up a ny
permit issued this sub constitution.
8. Any violation with regard to this sub constitution is an offence and if anyone is made accused by a court of law, such a pers on is
compelled for a fine accordance with the Pradeshiya Sabha ordinance of 1987 No. 15 Section No. 122(2) and if the particular person
continues to commit the courts and even after is being made a victim by the courts and even if he continues the same after the

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
181
Pradeshiya Sabha president, Secretary or any authorised after founds out the mistake in writing such accuse is compelles for a fine
under the Pradeshiya Sabha Ordinance of 1987 No. 15 Section 122(2) for every day such offence is made.
9.  In case there would be any misunderstanding with regard to the Tamil or English translation, the Sinhala copy supercedes.
10. In connection to the Sub constitution the word ‘‘Sabha’’ refer to the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha, ‘‘The president’’ refers to the
Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman and ‘‘Secretary’’ refers to the Secretary of Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha, ‘‘authorized
officer and Police officer’’ refer to a Police officer of the Sri Lanka Police Department.
First Sub Constitution.– Stone sand and building materials, soil or any other fuel stuffs. Manufacturing materials close to rubber and
tea leaf transport.
Time Amount
Rs.
One month 100 0
One Quarter 275 0
One year 1,000 0
Second Sub constitution.– Vehicle parking place time :
Place Date Time
From the clock tower to Janasiri Stores Double days in front of Janasiri Stores from 6.00 a. m.
Single day in front of People’s Bank to 6.00 p. m.
Janasiri Stores to Kellanivelly Trade Centre Daily-left from 6.00 a. m.
right to 6.00 p. m.
Parusella Road from Kelanivelly Trade Centre to Daily from 6.00 a. m.
Co-operative Stores right side to 6.00 p. m.
01–534/4
KEGALLE   URBAN   COUNCIL
By laws
I, Maheepala Herath , the Provincial Minister of Local Government shall hereby notify, under the power vested in me by article No. 2 (1)
of Provincial Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 1989 that has to be read with the Article No. 154 (1) of Chapter 255 Urban Councils.
Ordinance, have approved the following By-Laws that has been prepared by the  Kegalle Urban Council under the power vested by t he
Article No. 153(1) that has to be read with the Article No. 94/157 of the aforesaid Urban Councils Ordinance and will be effect ed from
the day it appear in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHEEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Provincia Council,
18th December, 2009.
BY LAWS ON CONTROLLING AND REGULARISATION OF THE DISPLAYING OF ADVERTISEMENTS
01. These by-laws may be cited as The by-laws for controlling and regularization of displaying of advertisements of the Urban
Council, Kegalle, which imposed to regularize and control the displaying of advertisements within the area of the Urban Council,
Kegalle.
02. By-laws for controlling and regularization of displaying of advertisements of the Urban Council, Kegalle which published by the
Gazette notification No. 13570 on 22nd March, 1963 will be cancelled from the date of these by-laws will be come into effect.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
182
03. No any person shall cause any advertisements to be displayed within the authorized area without a permission of the Chairman
of the Urban Council, Kegalle. Every applicant who intend to get a permission shall –
(i) apply in the form provided by the urban council. (This shall be according to the form mentioned in Schedule 01 of this
by-law ;
(ii) Forward his application at least seven days before the date on which the display/ announce is intended to commence ;
(iii) Forward every application with under mentioned documents :–
(a) The consent letter of the owner of the place/land to fix advertisement or notice  board,
(b) Documents to corroborate the title of the land,
(c) A layout that mentioning in length, width, height from the earth and the material of the advertisement, if there are due
specimen,
(d) A specimen that mentioning in identical wards, picture/color, length, width and height,
(e) Documents to corroborate the identity in the matter of advertisement.
04. Where the chairman approves an application referred to in By-laws (3), he shall direct the applicant to pay fees mentioned i n
Schedule 3 of these by-laws and get a receipt for the payment. The council  has the power to determine this fee in accordance
with rates fixed by the council and amended from time to time by a resolution of the council  and publishing in the gazette.
05. Applicant should exhibit his name and address in clear and legible characters in a conspicuous position on the front of such  sign
or hoarding.
06. When a license to display an advertisement is issued to any person, the chairman shall direct that person –
(a) to insert the number and the date of that license in every copy of that advertisement; or
(b) to cause every copy of that advertisement to be produced to the council for the purpose of being stamped in token of the
payment of the fee for that license.
07. No person shall deface or cause to be defaced any stamp, sign, letter, word, or picture, which has been put on any advertise ment
by the chairman in token of the payment of the fee for the license to display that advertisement.
08. (i) Where any advertisement is in an unsightly or objectionable condition the urban council shall be able to stop such displa y
within the period specified in such notice by written notice.
(ii) A person to whom a notice under paragraph (1) is sent by the chairman shall comply with such notice within the time
specified therein.
09. These by-laws are not related to get a license for any propaganda advertisement mentioned in Schedule 02.
10. No person shall cause any advertisement related to smoking or liquor to be displayed or drawn on the wall or bank.
11. A violation or an omission of any section of these by-laws shall be an offence and when any person shall be guilty of an off ence
on being convicted by a court of proper jurisdiction and every occasion further in case he continues to commit said violation he
shall be liable to a fine that prescribed in the Sub-section 153(2) of the Urban Councils Act, No. 61 of 1939.
12. ( a) No person shall cause –
(i) an advertisement to be displayed in such a manner as to project over or across any street, foot path or carriageway,
(ii) an advertisement to be displayed on any hoarding which exceeds more than 10 meters in height from the ground,
(iii) to be affixed or suspended from the facade of a building abutting on any street, or road, any shop sign which in length
extends beyond the limits of such facade and to be displayed on a private or a public building, a sacred place, a public
garden, or any bridge, a overhead bridge, a telephone post, an electricity wire post, a retaining wall, a culvert, a rock, a bank
and a tree.
(b)  The owner or lessee of any hoarding use  for the display of advertisements shall –
(i) maintain such hoarding in a proper state of repair and security of properties of the public; and
(ii) exhibit his name and address in clear and legible in the said hoarding.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
183
(c) No person shall cause –
(i) Any advertisement to be displayed on a vehicle in a manner of in such form other than that approved by the chairman;
or
(ii) Any vehicle bearing any illuminated advertisement not approved by the Superintendent of Police shall be driven on any
street or road.
13. The Council has the legal power to act of all advertisements displayed within the urban council area without the license. (Except
advertisements mentioning in schedule 02) If the advertiser was unable to maintain the advertisements like that a banner, a
cutout, a hoarding and a  notice  board drawn on a wall or fixed on the wall in any matter and that advertisement is attached,
detached, or fallen to the ground by air and a damage to the beauty of the city in any matter, even though a license to display an
advertisement is issued and that license period is not expired, action may be taken to remove all advertisements by the chairman.
( action may be taken to remove advertisement as well as the council and the chairman shall not be liable to pay any compensation
of that advertisement)
14. In these by laws -
The term “Chairman” means the Chairman of the Urban Council, Kegalle, and the term “secretary” means secretary of the Urban
Council, Kegalle, “Authorized person” means any officer received written order of vesting power from the chairman of the urban
council, Kegalle.
“Hoarding” means any structure, support, post, board, or any other contrivance erected or used for the purpose of displaying
any advertisement .and “sky sign” means any word, letter, model sign, device or representation used for the purpose of
advertisement and supported by or attached to any post, pole, standard, framework or other support on or over any land,
building or other structure and wholly or partly visible against the sky from some point in any street, road, cannel or lake.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
16. These by-laws will be come into effect from the date published of the Gazette notification.
S
CHEDULE 01
01. Name of Applicant  :––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address  :––––––––––.
03. Details of the business. ceremony. exhibition. carnival meeting. or commodities which intend to display the advertisement:-
04. The place/places where intend to display the advertisement :––––––––––.
05. The period for displaying the advertisement  :––––––––––.
Whether the consent documents of releted parties have been attached :––––––––––.
06. Whether the relevant format has been attached  :––––––––––.
07. The kind of advertisement that intends to display (banner. board. cut-out. wall. and bank, or fixed)  :––––––––––.
08. Whether the applicant agrees to maintain the advertisement if it is discoloration. detachment, attachment, or break down any manner.
after the permission is given  :––––––––––.
09. Shall the advertisement/board be eliminated by person her self. after the permission Period is expired  :––––––––––.
(If not eliminate, fee is charged by the council to eliminate it)
10. I hereby agree to display the advertisement according to the directives of the council and I am also well aware that the vio lation of
any section of this by-law or these by-laws is a Punishable offence.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
S
CHEDULE 02
These by-laws are not related to the following propaganda advertisements
(i) Advertisements related to the religious and sacred places.
(ii) Advertisements related to the security services.
(iii) All advertisements displayed by the government for public purpose.
(iv) An advertisement related to funeral, political or a public meeting.
(v) Advertisements displayed on/ upon the premises of business / domestic name plates.
(vi) A "to let" advertisement which is displayed to be sold.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
184
(vii) A "for sale" advertisement which is displayed to be sold.
(viii) A name plate not exceeding four square feet in ‘area, used to professional purpose.
SCHEDULE 03
To display a month To display an year
For one square feet for one square feet
1. To display a notice board Rs. 25 0 –
(Temporary hoarding or-sky’ sign board)
2. For a fixed notice board – Rs. 40 0
03. Deposited Rs. 250 for a notice board or more than one.
04: Deposited Rs. 250 for a five sky sign board or more than five.
01-533
YATIYANTHOTA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have been
prepared by the yatiyanthota Pradeshiya Saba under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act, No.
15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the limit of Local Authority from the date that notification appeared in the Gazette  of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
SUB CONSTITUTION FOR ORGANIZING ESTABLISHING AND ADMINISTRATING INDUSTRIES GA VEL BLACK
STONES, CEMENT AND SAND
1. This sub constitution is known as the regulation for organizing establishing and administrating industries of gravel, black s tones,
cement and sand within the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha area.
2. If any industry is caries out or any activities are taken to establish and industry within the Pradeshiya Sabha boundary limi t
mentioned in the No. 01 Sub constitution and if such industry is or to be established near a level land (Mawatha) street, a near by
house and attached land environment, such proprietor, resident of the industry of blank stones, gravel, cement or sand should not
carry out any such industry unless and otherwise the proprietor, resident or leasie agrees to follow the condition and methods of the
president of the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha and (Who will be designated as president).
3. Any sort of arrection of building, renevations or any sort of changes connection to black stones, gravel, cement and sand should not
be done without the prior permission from the Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. Permit issued for industries black stone cement, sand or gravel, if not cancelled before hand the particular year.
5. Industries of black stones, cement, sand and gravel should be obtained before 31st January of the particular year and any industry
newly established should obtain permit within 30 days of the date of commencement of the industry any kind of errection,
renavation or changes or development of black stone, cement, gravel or sand should be done only with the prior permission from the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
6. Permit concerned to black stone, cement, sand, gravel will be issued under the conditions and rules the Pradeshiya Sabha proposed
as and when necessary.

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
185
7. If it is non applicable to the following any thing stated in the No. 01 sub constitution is ineligible to obtain permit.
(i) Should have obtained business permit and environment permit.
(ii) Industry of black cement, sand, gravel should do its loading unloading and storing of is row materials and manufacturing
without causing any private road ect.
(iii) While constitution as industrial place concerned with black stone, cement, gravel and sand if the minimum distance is not
shown by any other written regulation from the date of this sub constitution come to the distance should not be within a
distance of 200m from a shared place, hospital, courts of law environment school, protected jungle, water spring etc.
(iv) The building related to the industry related to black stone, cement, gravel and sand should be constitution as per the
instruction and advises of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(v) Employees serving in the industry related to black stone cement, gravel and sand should be supplied with sanitary hand glows,
shoes, helmets etc. in order to prevent causing ill health.
(vi) Wasts should have been constructed to sand out impure water and impurities within the industry of black stones, cement,
gravel and sand.
8. Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha posses all power to cancel the permit in case. One or more, one portion or all is violated those issues
mentioned in the No. 7 clauser.
9. The president, secretary or any authorized officer posses all powers to enter in to the industry of black stone, cement, sand  and
gravel and examine or check up or survey in any occasion.
10. Violating any of the regulation inserted in the sub constitution is an offence of punishment and if anyone is found guilty o f any
charges by and empowered court of law in accoardance with the Pradeshiya Sabha Ordinance of 1987 No. 15 of Section 122(2) and
such one continues the same action even after pointing out the previous offence in writing by the Pradeshiya Sabha President,
Secretary or by any authorized officer, such victim is eligible for the punishment under Section No. 122(2) No. 15 of 1987 under
Pradeshiya Sabha Act for every day he/she does such offence.
11. The Pradeshiya Sabha is empower to renew any of the issues mentioned in the sub constitution.
12. If any other meaning is not required the words "chairman" refer to the one who holds office as Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha and
"Secretary" means the one of the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha.
13. Should there be any difference in the Tamil or English translations in any circumstance the Sinhala copy superceds.
01–534/5
–––––––––––––––––
YATIYANTHOTA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have been
prepared by the Yatiyanthota Pradeshiya Saba under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act, No.
15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the limit of Local Authority from the date that notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
186
SUB CONSTITUTION OF YATIY ANTOTA PRADESHIY A SABHA FOR ORGANIZING, CONTROLLING ,
PROTECTING THE PLACE OF HISTORICAL PLACES, NATURAL AND FASTING PLACES
1. This sub constitution is pertained to organizing, controlling, protecting the places, historical, natural and fascinating sce naries
within the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha administrative area.
2. In accordance with the sub constitution entering in to the apporsaid places, either by walk or by motor vehicles or driving the motor
vehicles, in to is prohibited unless and otherwise apermitting letter is produced, obtained from the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha is hereby empowered to renew the amount mentioned in the sub constitution as and when
wanted according to its nessacities as tax.
3. Damaging, fabricating inscripting mames, carving, states on stones, rocks, tree or any other important historical article and strickly
prohibited.
(i) Any individual or any group violates the 3-1 warning and liable to undergo the changes of a court of a court law or pay the
damages.
(ii) Polythene plastic articles, metal vessels, bottle, bottle pieces, cloth fragments, bags of any variety or any other waste
materials, should only be put in to the place allocated for the above purpose.
4. Impurtication of springs, books streams or rives or throwing away impurtities in to them within the venue should be strickly
avoided.
5. Historical places, natural and fascinating places mentioned in the sub constitution, should not be videoed or taken photoes for the
cinema purposes without prior authorities.
6. The Pradeshiya Sabha president, his representation secretary or any officer - employed by the above is mentioned have obtaine d
permission according after the payments.
7. Vehicles of residents living with in the Pradeshiya Sabha venue on the recommendation of the Pradeshiya Sabha president as well
as the vehicles belong to the school children any educational excursions with the written permission from the president of the
Pradeshiya Sabha, could be permitted inside without being leaved any charges.
8. The period of time allowed to remain inside the venue under the sub constitution and only from 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. of the day.
Getting together as a gang or remaining inside and not permitted after the above said time. Any such action after the permitted period
shall make either the president of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any authorized officer to send out such group or the individual forcer fully
or to take lawful action against.
9. In case the period of time should be extended a written permission should obtained the Pradeshiya Sabha president for the sai d
purpose.
10. Drinkly or taking along with them any intoxicatable liquor strickly prohibited.
11. The Pradeshiya Sabha hold no response any risk, danger neglegencies or any damages come to anyone. The visitors are compelled
to seek their own security.
12. Every visitor is respected to make sure that any living creature with in the venue and not teased, caused danger or any other sort at
inconveniuence, as per the above constitution.
13. In any place mentioned under the sub constitution no none and permitted to behave in an absceve manner or to act in such manner.
14.  When receiving the archaeological artetacts or social science separated place it is nessary to stop within the marginal land for this
purpose.
15.
16. Each visitor and strickly aduiled to follow advice and orders with regard to the road signals with in as 01 constitution.
17. Any individual violates the above sub constitution and found guilty at any fault such a one and liable to undergo a pannelly  in
accordance with the ordinance at 1987 No. 15 Section 122(2) for each day or each time he, she or any they make such foult or such

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
187
violating is continued even after advising by a written document. Such a behavior is incorrect by the Pradeshiya Sabha President or
any authorized officer. The offender has to undergo a panlly according to the 1987 No. 15 Pradeshiya Sabha Ordinance under
Section 122(2).
18. As far as this sub constitution concern "PRESIDENT" means it refers to the president of Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha. President
an authorized officer by the above president, an authorized officer by the above president, secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
income tax  administrator or any them authorized officer.
19. Should there be any unsuitablility in the Tamil or English Translation. The Sinhala copy is considered to be correct.
No. 01 Ordinance :
Kithulgala bird paradise
Kithulgala Ve-oya lake
No. 02 Ordinance :
To padarists
National sum Rs. 20 0
Foreigners sum Rs. 100 0
Vehicle parking :
15 seated vehicle or van Rs. 100 0
Bus more than 15 seat, Lorry Rs. 200 0
Car Rs. 50 0
Three wheeler Rs. 30 0
Motorcycle and bicycles Rs. 20 0
No. 03 Ordinance :
Any sceanry teledrama per day Rs.1,000 0
Commercial Exhibition Rs. 50 0
Camara carrying charges Rs. 20 0
Hand video charges Rs. 50 0
01–534/3
––––––––––––––––
YATIYANTHOTA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have been
prepared by the Yatiyanthota Pradeshiya Saba under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act, No.
15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the limit of Local Authority from the date the notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
ORDINANCE, WITH REGARD TO TAX COLLECTION AND OBTAINING WEEKLY REPORT WITH IN THE
PRADESHIYA SABHA YATIYANTOTA
1. This sub constitution and treated as a subonated ordinance for the purpose of issuing a permit for collection tax, rent or an y other
sort of charges and obtaining details or report from the commercial trades and industries with in the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha
areas.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
188
2. The expectation of this ordinance is obtaining a permit organizing and implementing the collection of rent, tax or anyother sort of
charges.
3. ( a) The rules and regulation or agreement come to implementation from the date of the Gazette publication.
(b) This ordinance and with connection to the commercial trades industries and such other organizations with in the Yatiyantota
Pradeshiya Sabha area. Mentioned in the No. 01 sub constitution.
4. Everyone who carries out a commerce of trades or industry mentioned in the No. 01 constitution and bownd to product any sort
of details or reports. Requested by the Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha pertained to any tax or rent. If the Pradeshiya Sabha request
for such.
5. The detail or reports entioned in the sub contitution should be submitted to the Pradeshiya Sabha with in a period of 30 days from
the date notification, circular or anyother kind of information by post, by registered post or by hand. Such details or report per hand
should be submitted either to the secretary or to the officer authorized by the Pradeshiya Sabha for the purpose of charging tax or
rent.
6. Under uppersaid ordinance when the informations and report submit to the Pradeshiya Sabha before 30 days. The Yatiyantota
Pradeshiya Sabha has a response to provide a receipt, to proof the Pradeshiya Sabha received such documents from them.
7. This sub constitution empowers the Pradeshiya Sabha preside secretary or the authorized officer to go to the trading place or  the
industrial place. Straight and request for the necessary details or to inspect such organizations personaly. If the details or report
called for the by this Pradeshiya Sabha not submitted with in the period of 30 days as mentioned above.
8. Any organization of trades, industry commenced. The Gazette Notification of this sub constitution the propritor or manger of such
institution should be inform the matter to the Pradeshiya Sabha within the period of 30 days from date of such commencement of
the organization.
9. Any changes made or done in any trade or industry already in opperation. The change should be notified to the resident of secretary
of the Pradeshiya Sabha by the propretor of the industry.
10. If an organization carries out commercial trade, industry or several occupation under one roof. The details should furnished under
the sub constitution No. 02 in the from prescribed for the above purpose, separately by the responsibility of the owner of the
institution.
11. According to the sub constitution, any details or reports calls for in not submitted within the specified period or avoiding  such
purpose or submitting false details is an, offence and such one and found quilly of such action by an authorized curt of law if such
one and fined in accordance with the Pradeshiya Sabha constitution of 1987 No. 15 Section No. 122(2) and if such person
continuous the same officer issue the owner or manager of the organization in a writing pointing out, the above offence and the
penalty the organization and compelled to under go a penalty in accordance with the Pradeshiya Sabha ordinance of 1987 No. 15,
Section 122(2) for each offence is made.
12. Unless and otherwise a separate meanings regard the word prescribed in the sub constitution as "SABHA" means the Yatiyantota
Pradeshiya Sabha and the word "chairman" refer to the one word and carries out duties of the president of the Yatiyantota
Pradeshiya Sabha.
‘‘Secretary’’ means one who carries out duties of the secretary at the time.
‘‘Authorized officer’’ means one who authorizes officer for the particular purpose by the president or the secretary of the
Pradeshiya Sabha.
The "full payment" means the total payment including all income in a trade centre or in an industry.
"Trade" or "business" means producting of any material or service, supply, sale, done by a particular person a group or an
institution.
13. The Yatiyantota Pradeshiya Sabha posses all authorities to renew any matter included in to this sub constitution as and when
wanted.
14. Should there be any unsuitability in the English or Tamil translation. The Sinhala copy supercedes.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
189
No. 01
* Hotels, restaurants or lodges registered in the tourist board of Sri Lanka or permitted by it or respected by the above board.
* Electrict power stations permitted by the Sri Lanka Investment Board
* Industrial factories
* Garment factories
* Foreign employment exchanger
* Super markets
* Registered liquor shops, bars
* Private transport boards
* Driving teaching institutes (learners)
* Money depositing and loans giving original institutes
* Insurance institution
* Audit institutes
* Private medical centre
* Independent contracting institutes
* Auction salesmen and brokers
* Diamond business men
* Concreat industries
* Other all trades, which are registered under the business registration constitutions.
No. 02 – Ordinance :
1. Name of the owner :–––––––––––.
2. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
3. Address :–––––––––––.
4. Year full amount of the business places :
(i) Asse. No. :–––––––––––.
(ii) Past year's full amount (details) :–––––––––––.
5. Kind of Business/Industries/Occupation :–––––––––––.
6. Is the business produce good or service details about those goods and services.
Name of employees :
Is the business/industry/registered under any other department or an institute give details.
Other details :
I hereby confirm that the particulars given by me are true and correct.
–––––––––––,
Signature.
(Owner of business/industry/duty).
Date :––––––––––.
01–534/2
––––––––––––––––
WARAKAPOLA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have been
prepared by the Warakapola Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act, No.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
190
15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the limit of Local Authority from the date that notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
BY-LAWS ON REGULATING OF RUNNING AND LIMITING THE SPEED AND THE WEIGHT OF AUTOMOBILS
01. These by-laws may be cited as the by-laws of limitation of weight and speed of vehicles and regulation of vehicles running on the
roads within the Pradeshiya Sabha.
02. The aim of the imposition of these by-law is to regulate and control the traveling of heavy vehicles and limit running speed and the
weight limits and reduce the damage made on the roads, situated within the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Warakapola and
roads which are not belong to another authority and have been stated as Pradeshiya Sabha roads of Pradeshiya Sabha, Warakapola.
03. (i) Running a tipper, a lorry, a tractor and a roads constructions machine exceeding two tons or transportation of all buildi ng
materials such as mettle, sands or any other minerals, or rubber base production, should not be made on the roads mentioned in
the above 2nd paragraph without permission issued by the chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the permission shall be taken
after paying the fees that mentioned in Schedule 01. Logs of timber and any other materials shall also not be towed along any
of these roads using by animals or tractors.
(ii) The Pradeshiya Sabha, Warakapola has the power to amend fees that mentioned in Schedule 01 in these by-laws on requirement
in periodically.
(iii) The vehicles with non-pneumatic tires shall not be driven along any roads of Pradeshiya Sabha unless they are transported on
another vehicle.
04. The maximum speed limits that could be driven along any roads of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be 25KMPH.
05. (i) Any person who expected to transport material, machines or equipment that mentioned in the Section 03 of these by-laws on
the roads defined in the Section 02 of these by-laws, shall make a written request to the chairman of the Sabha at least 3 days
before the date of transport.
(ii) When any application is received in terms of by-laws 05(1) above, chairman shall call for a report from the technical officer
or any other officer who is assigned in to the power by chairman and shall obtain the amount of security adequate to the due
fee and the compensation of the probable damage.
(iii) No permission for transport shall be granted unless the due fees and the amount of security mentiond in these by-laws 05(2)
above also unless an agreement is entered into.
(iv) When a request is made for the release of security deposit made under the by-laws 05(3) above, a departmental charges of 10%
and the estimated damage if any shall be recovered from such security deposit.
(v) If the damage exceeds the security deposit, it shall be lawful to direct to relevant person to pay the additional amount. If the
payments are not made when the order is given to pay arrears, Pradeshiya Sabha is empowered to file a case at a court within
a proper jurisdiction and to recover the arrears.
(vi) When the chairman considers that the following of the provisions of Sub-Section 05(5) shall be unfair, he has the power to give
any relief for that under the approval of the general meeting.
06. Contractors who have entered in agreement with the Pradeshiya Sabha for development works can claim exemption from the charges
mentioned in Schedule 01 hereto, by making a written request to the chairman.
07. It shall be the lawful for the chairman or the secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer who is assigned in to the power
by them to examine every license issued under these by-laws.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
191
08. Every violations of these by-laws shall be an offence and any person who found guilty of an offence by a court of proper jurisdiction
shall be liable to a fine that mentioned Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and further in case he
continues to commit that offence he shall be liable to an additional fine that mentioned Sub-Section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
09. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
10. In these by-laws the term ‘‘Pradeshiya Sabha’’ means the Pradeshiya Sabha Warakapola, ‘‘Chairman’’ means Chairman of the
Pradeshiya Sabha Warkapola, ‘‘Secretary’’ means the secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha Warakapola and ‘‘any other officer’’ means
an officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha Warakapola, a Grama Niladhari or a Police Officer.
S
CHEDULE 01
01. Refundable cash deposit is Rs. 2,500 per month for a vehicle of 1 1/2 cubes to 2 cubes. Rs. 100 license fee is for one term.
02. Refundable cash deposit is Rs. 3,750 per month for a vehicle of 2 cubes to 4 cubes. Rs. 200 license fee is for one term.
03. Refundable cash deposit is Rs. 5,000 per month for more than 4 cubes Rs. 500 license fee is for one term.
04. Refundable cash deposit is Rs. 3,750 for transportation of timber of the rubber land or other land of 01 hectares or more th an one
for firewood or other things and Rs. 100 license fee is for one term.
05. Rs. 2,500 refundable cash deposit and Rs. 500 license fee of non-paying cash deposit is for one term of transportation of ti mber.
06. Re-paying of cash deposit may be rejected, if it shall be confirmed, after the officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha who is assigned in to
the power have gone and inspected with the Grama Niladhari of the relevant division, that any damages have been occurred to the
road by the vehicle.
07. The chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Warakapola has the power to determine the maximum weight that may be transported on the
each Pradeshiya Sabha road and fix notice board by displaying ‘‘towing of timbers by using elephants is prohibited.’’
01-538
–––––––––––––––––
RAMBUKKANA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By  Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me article No. 2(1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have been
prepared by the Rambukkana Pradeshiya Saba under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act, No.
15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the limit of Local Authority from the date the notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
BY-LAWS RELA TING TO THE MAINTENANCE OF THE L. P. GASEOUS CREMATORIUM OF THE
RAMBUKKANA PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. These by-laws may be cited as ‘The by-laws relating to the controlling and maintenance of the L. P. gaseous crematorium of t he
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana. This will be come into effect from the date published gazette notification.
02. This L. P. gaseous crematorium, maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana is called as the crematorium of the Pradeshiya
Sabha, Rambukkana.
03. No any corpse shall be cremated in the crematorium without permission that issued by the chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha,
Rambukkana or another officer who is assigned in to the power by the chairman.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
192
04. Any person (herein after means applicant) who intends to get permission mentioned in Section 03 in these by-laws, shall forward
an application prepared according to schedule 01 to the chairman with under mentioned documents.
(i) A certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of the Grama Niladhari Division where the deceased had lived to confirm the
relation between the deceased and the applicant.
(ii) The certificate of permission for cremation the corpse issued under Section 41.5 of the births and deaths registration Act by
the Coroner or the magistrate, if he held inquest in to the death of the corpse under the Criminal Procedure Code.
(iii) If a corpse of a still birth, the certificate issued under Section 43.1 of Births and deaths registration Act.
05. It shall be recorded in sequence, after the prepared application has been received to the chairman.
06. If the corpse shall be delivered for cremation, the permission shall be issued to the applicant after the collecting of due fee and cash
deposit of rupees One Thousand. The time of delivery the corpse to the care-taker of the crematorium shall be mentioned in the
permission.
07. If the corpse shall not be accepted for cremation, the reason for that shall be informed to the applicant in writing.
08. No fee shall be charged for the cremation of a corpse of any chairman, vice chairman, member or employee of the sabha who serve
or had served at the sabha.
09. It shall be allowed for cremations a corpse in the crematorium after the due fees ; that determine by a resolution in periodically by
the sabha are made.
10. A care-taker of the crematorium, an assistant and a watcher shall be appointed by the Provincial Council of Sabaragamuwa by
consulting the chairman.
11. The care-taker of the crematorium shall maintain the crematorium and the surroundings in clear and pleasant manner.
12. Any corpse shall not be cremated without a certificate of death registration issued by a registrar of births and deaths unde r the
provision of births and deaths registration ordinance as amended by the marriages, births and deaths registration (amended) Act, No.
41 of 1975 or a certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of the related division.
13. When the crematorium is reserved for cremation, a receptacle that mentioned name and address of deceased shall be provided to the
care-taker of the crematorium by the close relation of the deceased to repose ashes after the corpse was cremated.
14. According to the rules and regulation of Section 13, the ash let out from the crematorium should be put in a vassal given and kept
safely in a special place allocated or in the crematorium grounds by the keeper of the crematorium.
15. If the receptacle with ashes which eliminated from the crematorium shall not be taken by the relations of the deceased within 14 days
or a receptacle shall not be supplied according to the 13 by laws, that ashes will be cremated on the land allocated for said task by
the council.
16. Ashes which eliminated from the crematorium shall not be delivered to the other person except close relations of the deceased.
17. Corpses shall be accepted for cremation within the time period from 6.30 a. m. to 08.00 p. m. in everyday.
18. The care-taker of the crematorium shall be subjected to do his duties according to the duty lists that assigned by the chairman or the
secretary.
19. If any person shall behave in a disorderly manner and disturb to the cremation affairs, the care-taker of the properties or the
buildings of the crematorium and any souvenir of the burial ground.
20. No any person who came to pay last respect shall behave in a disorderly manner or cause damage to the properties or the buildings
of the crematorium and any souvenir of the burial ground.
21. Any person exceeds the rule mentioned in Section 20 should be punished according to the rules and regulation of the cemetery and
crematorium ordinance.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
193
22. No any person shall enter the crematorium after the time mentioned in 7th By-law without permission. No person shall remain or
loiter in the crematorium after the cremation.
23. It shall be an offence of doing any damage or braek to construction or a fitting of the premises or to the crematorium or disturb or
threaten or induce to the duties of the care-taker of the crematorium or his assistants or his servants.
24. Person who booked the creamtorium shall agree to pay assessed value that determined by the chairman, if a damage has been done
for any property or building or instrument by the person who booked the crematorium or his assistants.
25. Exceeding or breaking laws mentioned by Sections 22, 23 and 24 of this sub constitution is an offence and in case if any person found
guilty by any magisterial magistrate (he/she) is entitled to the find mentioned in Article 122(2) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
26. Even though a corpse has been delivered to the crematorium for cremation, the chairman has the power to determine to bury th e
corpses, if the corpse shall be unable to cremate before or during of cremation on electric failure or technical faults. In the event of
any problems that arises at the implementation of these by-laws, the decision of the Chairman shall be the final.
27. In these by-laws the term ‘‘sabha’’ means the Pradeshiya Sabha Rambukkana, the term ‘‘Chairman’’ means the Chairman of the
Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana. ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Rambukkana. ‘‘Corpse’’ means a dead
body of a human.
28. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this by-law the Sinhala text shall prevail.
T
HE SCHEDULE 01
APPLICATION FOR THE CREMATION OF CORPSES AT THE CREMATORIUM OF THE PRADESHIYA SABHA, RAMBUKKANA
01. Name of the Applicant :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
National Identity Card’s No. :–––––––––.
Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––.
02. Name of the deceased :–––––––––.
Residential address :–––––––––.
National Identity Card’s No. :–––––––––.
Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––.
03. Relation between the applicant and the deceased :–––––––––.
04. Number and the date of the Death Certificate (Attached the Death Certificate) :–––––––––.
05. Name and address of the Registrar of Death :–––––––––.
06. Cause of death :–––––––––.
07. Date and time, if the inquest in to the death was held :–––––––––.
08. Name and designation of the inspecting officer :–––––––––.
09. Deduction of the inspecting officer :–––––––––.
10. Where the permission for cremation of the corpse is obtained :–––––––––.
11. Date and time for cremation :–––––––––.
12. A receptacle that mentioned name and address to repose ashes has been/has not been provided :–––––––––.
I certify that all information mentioned above is true and correct. Related certificates are attached.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
01. Issuing permission is approved/not approved. As under mentioned reasons, issuing permission is rejected :–
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
–––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––. Chairman/Authorized Officer.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
194
Chairman/Authorized Officer,
01. Inserted in the register. Paid Rs. ............................. for deposits of Rs. ....................... and fees of Rs. .......................... by a receipt
bearing No. ....................... and dated ..........................
02. Forward for the permission.
03. Forward documents that mentioned the reason to reject the application for signatures.
–––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
01–537
–––––––––––––––
DERANIYAGALA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me Article No. 2(1) of Provincial Councils Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have
been prepared by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act,
No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected within the limit of Local Authority from the date the notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
THE INTERIM CONSTITUTION FOR CONTROLLING AND REGULATING THE MOTOR VEHICLES
1. This interim constitution is introduced as the interim constitution of controlling and regulating the vehicle parking in the authorized
area, which is belongs to the Pradeshiya Sabha of Deraniyagala.
2. In the limited area of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha, the vehicle which has been mentioned in the 4th sub document, not
permitted parking without pay the parking fees in the public parking area which is mentioned in the 1st document.
3. Parking the motor vehicles in the public vehicle park without a formal license which is produced by the Pradeshiya Sabha is
prohibited.
4. The places approved for the public vehicle park is mentioned in 1st sub document.
5. All the license issued under the act of this interim constitution, should be used only for the vehicle must be shown clearly.  The
license which is issued by the Pradeshiya Sabha valid up to the expiry date mentioned in the license.
6. When formal inspection which is made by a policeman, authorized controller of motor vehicles and any other authorized officer who
has been appointed by the honourable president of the Pradeshiya Sabha, the owner of the vehicle or driver should be submitted the
license and other necessary documents to the above officers for the inspection.
7. Parking the vehicles as disturbing other vehicles which is entered to the public vehicle park should be prevented.
8. (i) Washing the vehicles in the public vehicles park should be prevented.
(ii) Repairing in the public vehicle park should be prevented and important repairs to remove a broken vehicle from the public park
is allowed.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
195
9. Having liquor and conducting a business in the premises of the public vehicle park should be prevented.
10. The rules and regulations which is mentioned in the interim constitutions will be implemented from 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. every
day.
11. Breaking the rules and regulations which is mentioned in the interim constitution is a fault and while any person who named as an
accused by a court the penalty which is decided according to the Reference No. 15 and 122(2) 1987, the act of Pradeshiya Sabha
should be paid the penalty. After the fault if any person who does the same fault the decision will be taken by the honourable
President of Pradeshiya Sabha or authorized officer and an information will be sent to the accused on written after the notice sent
if any person does the same fault according to the Nos. 15 and 122(2) Act of Pradeshiya Sabha, penalty should be paid for everyday.
12. The three wheelers should be parked in the places which is mentioned in the 2nd sub document and the license should be taken
according to the 3rd sub document.
13. If any clashes between the Sinhala and English copy of the interim constitution the Sinhala copy will be effected.
The terms mentioned as ‘‘Motor Vehicle’’ means lorry, tractor with trailer, three wheeler, bus, cab, tipper, car, motor bicycle, jeep
and other movable machineries.
‘‘Sabawa’’ means Pradeshiya Sabha of Deraniyagala.
‘‘President’’ means president of Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
‘‘The Controller of the Vehicle’’ means the authorized officer appointed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
‘‘Police Officer’’ means the poilceman who is in approved police uniform.
‘‘V ehicle Parks’’ means the vehicles which is parked in the reserved area accept the vehicles which is parked for the passengers to
get on and get down and loading the goods and unloading the goods.
T
HE 1ST SUB DOCUMENT
THE PLACES RESERVED FOR THE VEHICLE PARK
1. From Devala Junction to wine stores - Right side (except)
2. From Devala Junction to Silva velandasala - Left side (except)
3. In front of main bus stand - van only (except)
4. Public market playground - all kinds of vehicles
5. Siriwardena Mawatha - all kinds of vehicles.
T
HE 2ND SUB DOCUMENT
THE  AUTHORIZED PLACES FOR THE THREE-WHEELER PARK
1. In front of the hospital - Dehiowita, Deraniyagala Road - Left side
2. Near the public market - Dehiowita, Deraniyagala Road - Right side
3. In front of the Bank of Ceylon - Dehiowita, Deraniyagala Road - Right side
4. Miyanawita Road - from Deraniyagala to Miyanawita - Left side
5. Near the main bus-stand Noory Deraniyagala Road - Left side
6. Near the filling station - Dehiowita, Deraniyagala Road - Left side
T
HE 3RD SUB DOCUMENT
THE FARE FOR THE THREE-WHEELER PARK
1. Fare for one year (with sticker) - Rs. 250
2. Monthly License fees - Rs. 150

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
196
4TH SUB DOCUMENT
THE FARE FOR THE VEHICLES ACCEPT THREE-WHEELER
Kind of vehicles Fare
Rs.
1. Van, car, jeep, cab, motor vehicle, three wheeler 30 0
2. Bus, lorry, tipper, tractor and other vehicles 40 0
3. Other motor vehicles 50 0
4. Motor bicycle 20 0
This Sub constitution is not applicable for ambulances, fire brigades, the state vehicles of state firms and school service vans with
the students.
01–535
–––––––––––––––
ARANAYAKA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province Mahipala Herath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as the
relevant minister for the subject for me article No. 2 (1) of Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the by laws which have
been prepared by the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Saba under the power vested for it by the Article No. 122 (1) 69/126 of Local Authority Act,
No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the limit of Local Authority from the date that notification appeared in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
18th December, 2009.
BY-LAWS FOR ORGANIZED VEHICLE PARKING AND EFFECTING PROPER CONTROL OF VEHICLE PARKING
01. The by-laws brought in to effect by public noification published in Gazette No. 1,344 of 4th June, 2004 pertaining to the organized
control of vehicle parking withining the authority area of the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha ceases to be effective from the date where
of these amended by-laws specified here in are declared effective.
02. This by-law will be known as the by-law framed for the purpose of demarcating vehicle parking sites and levying charges for parking
and the control of vehicle parking.
03. The chairman of the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha here in after referred to as chairman is deligated the authority to put up an d
display sign boards prominently to medicate "No parking" location and parking locations for vehicles on streets or parts of streets
in his area of authority.
04. As expressed in the 3rd Section of the by-laws the drivers must act in compliance where sign boards are displayed to prohibi t
parking of vehicles at a location or at a particular time at a location and further compliance to the under mentioned clauses.
(i) Act not accordingly to sign boards displayed by officials in any particular location.
(ii) Fallow the flow of traffic as regured and in effect in a particular location at a particular time.
(iii) Preuent passeugers boarding and alighting from vehicles in to restricted locations.
(iv) Refrain from exceeding the time limit granted for loading or unloading vehicles.
05. As specified in clause 2 of these by-laws referning to charges levied for parking of vehicles. No vehicle should be parked in a parking
lot, unless the driver is in possestion of a parking permit issued by the chairman.
06. As expressed in clause 2 of the by-laws parking location and charges for parking would be decided on a consensus of the sabha and
subsequent amendments rights are reserved by the sabha subject to gazette notification.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
197
07. Parking permits issued under these by-laws should carry the registration number of the vehicle and the permits period of val idity
clearly.
08. The permit issued to a vehicle should be prominently displayed at some place form the intenior of the vehicle to be clearly seen from
the outside.
09. The driver or the owner of the vehicle should present the permit for inspection when a request to this effect is made by a p olice
officer, traffic warden or an officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha delegated with authority by the chairman.
10. When separate parking lots are provided for different classes of vehicles, parking should be done in the appropriate lots marked for
the vehicles. A vehicle should not be parked in a lot, marked for a different class of vehicle.
11. Vehicles should not be parked, so as to obstruct other vehicles from freely entering or leaving using the entrance or exit g ates
respectively, at public vehicle parks.
12. The entrance and exit paths to public vehicle parks will be shown by sign boards, hence all vehicles must adhere to instruct ions
given, to use the entry path when entering and exit path when leaving the park.
13. Separate parking spaces would be demarcated with posts or chains and vehicles as they come must follow the procedure of parking
the vehicles next to the vehicle already parked, facing the same direction.
14. Washing vehicles should not be done in public vehicles parks.
15. Repairs to vehicles should not be undertaken in public vehicle parks unless repairs become necessary for its removal from the park.
16. Consumption of alcohol, narcotics or selling them and bad conduct is prohibited in public vehicle parks.
17. The rules that control, public vehicle parks will be operative from 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. The chairman reserues the right to alter
these times through a gazette notification.
18. On special occations vehicles other than hire vehicles will be allowed parking in places reserved for hire vehicles by the i ssue of
special permits by the chairman.
19. Annual parking permit holders must renew their permits for the following year before the expiry of the first month of that year by
paying the charges as stipulated in subsection 2 of the by-laws.
20. Contravention of any of these by-laws either by transgression or disregard is an offence and if convicted by a court of law the
offender becomes liable to a fine stipulated in Section 122 (2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha enactment No. 15 of 1987.
21. Motor vehicles in these by-law refer to any vehicle having the power of automotion derived from an engine.
Sabha – Refers to Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
Chairman – Refers to the chairman of the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
Traffic warden – Refers to an officer appointed by the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha deligated with authority.
Police officer – Refers to an officer of the Sri Lanka Police Department.
S
CHEDULE NO. 1
Reserve places Threewheeler T ractor Van Lorry Motor
for vehicle parking Cycles
Dippitiya Town In front of Public Market near From Dippitiya- (i) In front of Public
by bus stand Hemmathagama Thalgaspitiya Road Market 10 vans
(Close to Bank of Ceylon) towards the hospital (ii) In front of Weligama
Wilpola Junction, Menama Stores
Junction, Hospital Junction (iii) Fish van - behind the
public market
Gavilitiya Town Near by Debathgama road in front
of S. O. Stores. Near by
Narangammana Road at
Galekady Junction

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
198
Pollambegoda Nikapitiya road (in front of temple)
in front of Godigamuwa Road
Alupotha Near by Junction of Leelagama
Road. Near by Attapitiya
Sumanathissa Mawatha
Ussapitiya In front of Pradeshiya Sabha From bus stand of In front of Udawatta Gallatara
Market Complex. In front of Thuththiripitiya Kade Road
Sanasa Bank building. Near by toward Gallatara Road
Junction of Gallatara Road.
Near by 8th Mile Post Junction.
Near by Sudugala Road Junction
Arawpola In front of Arawpola Dasanayaka
shop
Thuththiripitiya Thuththiripitiya Junction.
Yalapola Junction. Near by
Wakirigala Ambalama
Asmadala Near by Asmadala Gurubawala
Road. (Infront of Grambe Shops)
Aranayaka Horewala Town (Infront of rubber
shop) Aranayaka Town (In front
of Bho Tree) In front of Post
Office. Uggoda Junction (Near
by bridge)
Gangthuna In front of bus stand of Gangthuna
Udagama (near by bridge)
Junction of Doteloya road. (near
by Hulangkepolla)
Rahala Near by Bandarawatta Junction.
Junction of Salawa Boowelikada
Randiligama Near by Junction of Randiligama
road. Near by Junction of
Bowelikada Salawa road
Weilmanna Near by Welimanna
Gataberikanda road
Galbokka Near by Galbokka road
Moragammana Near by Moragammana Junction
Hathgampola Near by Junction of Hathgampola
Elangipitiya road. Near by
Hathgampola Junction
Debathgama Near by Junction of Debathgama
Kalugala Road
Thalgaspitiya Near by double bokku in the
Thalawa road. Near by Junction
of Habalakkawa Kooragala
Kehelwatta Near by School Junction
Reserve places Threewheeler T ractor Van Lorry Motor
for vehicle parking Cycles

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'01'22
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.01.2010
199
There would be able to changed the parking places of Three-wheelers resevered by Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha. (When the road
development and town planning).
2(b)  SCHEDULE
Type of the Mortor vehicle Amount For stickers
Three-wheeler Annual Rs. 250 Rs. 50
Van, car, tractor, lorry for each Monthly Rs. 200
W. R. G. SANATH BANDARA,
Chairman,
Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office of the Aranayaka Pradeshiya Sabha,
24th November, 2009.
01–536
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.