

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1825$25 - 2013 wf.daia;= ui 29 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'08'29
No. 1825/25 - THURSDAY ,  AUGUST  29,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Rural Development Statute of the Western Province Provincial Council, No. 02 of 2013
ANNOUNCEMENT
I, Hewa Matharage Upali Kodikara, the Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs, Cultural and Arts Affairs, Co-
operative Development, Food Supplies and Distribution and Rural Development of the Western Province, do hereby declare
that the Rural Development Statute of the Western Province Provincial Council, No. 02 of 2013 is enforced from 24.07.2013,
i.e., the date of assent of the Hon. Governor of the Western Province.
HEWA MATHARAGE UPALI KODIKARA,
Minister of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs,
Cultural and  Arts Affairs, Co-operative Development,
Food supplies and Distribution and
Rural Development of the Western Province.
Rural Development Statute of the Western Province Provincial Council, No. 02 of 2013
A statute to allocate provisions for the establishment, registration and continuance of Rural Development Societies,
Women Rural Development Societies, Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority, Rural Development District Boards
of Authority and Rural Development Provincial Boards of Authority in order to improve Economic, Social, Educational, Moral
Health and Cultural Affairs of Rural and Urban Communties within the Western Province, also to make provisions related to
or consequential to the stated Provisions and  to repeal the Rural Development Statute No. 05 of 1998.
Be it enforced by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
2A
Short title and
the Date of
enactment.
Part I
01. This statute is cited as the “Rural Development Statute of the Western Provincial Council, No.
02 of 2013” of the Western Province and it shall be put into effect from the date of assent of the Governor
of the Western Province.
02. While improving skills and self-power of the public of the Western Provincial Council area of
Authority, to create economic, social, cultural and spiritual development based on their own planned
activities would be the objective of this statute. To achieve that, the following functions can be engaged
in.
(a) Establishment and maintenance of Rural Devlopment Societies/Women Rural Development
Societies ;
(b) Organization, establishment and maintenance of Rural Development Divisional Boards of
Authority ;
(c) Organization, establishment and maintenance of Rural Development District Boards of
Authority ;
(d) Organization, establishment and maintenance of Rural Development Provincials Boards
of Authority ;
(e) Establishing and maintenance of Women Improvement Training Centers ;
(f) Planning programmes for Rural Development and implementation ;
(g) Establishment and maintenance of training and sales centers that upgrade the economic
activities and livelihoods of the rural community and issuance of certificates for training
obtained. In addition to supervision, establishing banks for Rural Development to ensure
the safety of members’ money and the controlling powers of the said banks shall be
assigned to the Secretary of the Ministry of Rural Development. According to that, banks
for Rural Development shall be established at Divisional and District Level. The excess
money of the said banks shall be deposited in a state bank ;
(h) Management and supervision of the institutions supporting Rural Development by
engaging in activities of Rural Savings, deposit accumulations, investment and loan
Provision and Promotion ;
(i) Coodinating with the Governmental, foreign and Local Non-Governmental Organizations
that have been established for Rural Development ;
(j) Establishment and maintenance of Provincial Rural Development Fund ;
(k) To acquire ; to posses ; to acquire or transfer on lease or rent ; to mortgage ; to sell or to
acquit in any other way of certain movable or immovable property.
Part II
03. (1) A Department of Rural Development, consisting public service officials to assist the Director
of Provincial Rural Development (referred to as  “Director of Rural Development” hereinafter) shall hereby
be established in order to accomplish the objectives and functions of this statute.
(Director of Rural Development shall be the head of the department and he shall be a Class II
Officer in Sri Lanka Administrative Service).
(2) Subjected to the general and specific provisions of the minister, the Director shall take charge
of the administration of this statute subjected to the instructions of the secretary to the ministry.
Objectives and
functions.
Establishing the
Provincial Rural
Development
Department.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
04. (1) The officers appointed to the department to support the Director to accomplish functions
of the department shall consist of Assistant Directors of Rural Develoment, District Rural Development
Officers, Rural Development Officers, Senior Sewing Instructors, Sewing Instructors appointed on seniority
and performance from among Rural Development Officers in the Provincial Rural Development Service and
other officers and employees considered as necessary to support the functions of the department.
(2) Subjected to the general provisions and control of the minister, the Director and other officers
shall implement this statute and the orders and provisions stipulated under this statute ; whereas, powers
and responsibility regarding such implementation is entrusted on them.
(3) Provincial Director of Rural Development shall be the head of the department that purviews the
subject of Rural Development. His powers and functions shall be determined by the Secretary of the
relevant ministry, where he shall functions under the supervision of the Secretary to the ministry in order
to achieve th aims of the Rural Development Statute. All the officers and employees of the Department of
Rural Development shall be considered as public service employees in considerations made under the
Penal Code.
Part III
05. (1) In order to improve economic, social, health, educational, moral and cultural status of the
Rural and Urban people living within the authority of Western Provincial Council, in every village, a Rural
Development Society or Women Rural Development Society or both societies may be established. In a
Women Rural Development Society, only women shall hold membership.
(2) A settlement containing a Grama Niladhari  Division or the village with traditional bonds
based on class, caste, religions etc. or “Gam Godella” or estate-village-unit shall be considered as the
village. When the area of authority for the Rural Development Society is determined, the Divisional Secretary
with the assistance of the Grama Niladhari  as well as Rural Development Officer and considering the
aforementioned matters shall decide such area of authority.
(3) For the initial assembly to establish a Rural Development Society, at least 20 families living in
the decided area of authority shall participate.
(4) Any village level plan made by a Rural Development Society intending to improve economic,
health, education, moral and clutural affairs of people living in the said village shall be defined for a certain
time period, whereas, provision of financial or other aid required to accomplish that plan shall be the duty
of the Western Provincial Council as well as the Local Government Authority of the area in which the
society is established. V oluntary organizations, Governmental and Non-govermental organizations may
support Rural Development Societies in this regard.
06. (1) The constitution stated in the first schedule of this statute shall be adopted for theses
Rural Development Societies with amendments to Sections 01, 02 and 03 thereof.
(2) This Rural Development Society shall  be a corporation with a continual existence possessing
a common symbol and it has powers to reach into contracts in compliance with the aims of the society.
Lawsuits may be filed and caused to be filed by the name of Rural Development Society by itself as well as
against it.
(3) For the function of that Rural Development Society, the Rural Development Officer of the
relevant area may have the opportunity to call any officer excelled in the knowledge of the subject area
relevant to programmes, wherein, the said officer shall become an Instructor in the field relevant to him.
However, they shalll not posses voting rights with regard to affairs of the society.
Appointing
officers-Powers
and functions.
Provincial
Director of Rural
Development.
Establishing
Rural
Development
Societies, area of
authority and the
initial assembly.
Constitution,
registration and
powers of Rural
Development
Socieites.
4 — PG  1739

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
4A
(4) For the registration of Rural Development Societies established as per provisions of Sub-
sections (1), (2), (3) and (4) of Section 5 in Part III of this Statute, the below-mentioned documents, having
prepared properly, accurately and in two copies shall be referred to the relevant Divisional Secretary within
one month. That is :
(a) Registration application of the society conforming to the format indicated in the Schedule
II of this statute ;
(b) Member name list ;
(c) Report of the initial meeting ;
(d) Constitution adopted by the assembly ;
(e) Name list of the Board of Officers and the Active Committee members.
The documents presented thus shall be examined by the Divisional Secretary and subsequent to being
satisfied about suitability and after giving approval, will note down in the Registration document and
having registered thus will issue a registration certificate conforming to the format stated in Schedule VI of
this statute to the society with a copy to the Director of Rural Development. It certain society fails to
register within one months’ time of selecting office bearers, that board of office bearers is annulled.
Accordingly office bearers will have be elected again.
(5) The official tenure of the board of office bearers of a registered Rural Development Society/
Women Rural Development Society as per provisions of above paragraph 6(4), shall be two calendar years
from the date of their selection. In place of the board of officers whose official tenure terminated after two
calendar years, a new board of office bearers shall be selected within 03 months.
In case of being unable to select a new board of office bearers within 3 months thus, within 14
days from the date of those 3 months elapses, a new board of office bearers shall be appointed by calling
a meeting of the General assembly through Grama Niladhari  by the Divisional Secretary or Rural
Development Officer.
(6) According to this statute, for a meeting held to establish a new Rural Development Society or
to select board of office bearers, that meeting shall at least be represented by the relevant Rural Development
Officer and officers or an officer authorized by the Divisional Secretary.
(7) The financial year of a Rural Development Society is equal to a Calendar year. Within four
months of the termination of a calendar year, the budget report relevant to the transactions conducted
within the financial year, having audited and adopted by the General Meeting shall be forwarded to the
Divisional Secretary through the Rural Development Officer. Limitations related to audit reports shall be
presented by the regulations enforced by the minister from time to time. In an occasions Provisions of
these section are breached by certain society that society can be subjected to inspection having suspended
its activities.
(8) The Rural Development Officer of the Divisional Secretariat in which Rural Development
Society/Women Rural Development Society is located, shall become ex-officio advisor of the Rural
Development Society/Women Rural Development Society, whereas the responsibility pertaining to all the
supervision and Rural Development activities shall become his responsibility.
(9) Any project initiated and continued by a Rural Development Society shall be conducted under
the supervision of Rural Development Society.
(10) When a conflict arises regarding society’s area of authority, allowing membership, appointment
of office bearers, letters and documents used, fixed and current assets owned by the society or functions
of the society, where a decision could not be reached by the Rural Development Officer firstly and the
Divisionals Secretary secondly, the matter shall be referred to the Director of Rural Development to reach
a decision regarding that. Upon dissatisfaction about these decisions, within 03 days, the Secretary
purviewing the provincial subject may be appealed once, wherein the Secretary’s decisions shall be final.
Official tenure

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
Part IV
07 (1) Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall be established within each Divisional
Secretariat. Those Borads of Authority shall consist of Chairmen and Secretaries of the Rural Development
Societies and Women Rural Development Societies established within the Divisional Secretariat.
(2) Aims of Divisional Boards of Authority :
(a) Providing funds and guidance to promote Rural Development Societies and Women Rural
Development Societies ;
(b) Providing assistance to accomplish objectives of those Societies ;
(c) Representing the District Boards of Authority ;
(d) Formulating Divisional Rural Development Plans ;
(e) Upgrading of economic, social and cultural institutional statuses of the people of the
area ;
(f) Building up relationships among other societies and associations ; through that, building
up Divisional Development.
(3) For these Divisional Boards of Authority, a Divisional Board of Authority-constitution that
conforms to the format stated in Schedule III of this statute, and has been approved by the Director of
Rural Development of the province and published in the Gazette paper should be there and that constitution
will have to be accepted by the majority when the societies are established. If certain change needs to be
made into the constitution that has been published in the Gazette paper by the Director, at an assembly
where 3/4 of members take part, the constitution may be amended by 2/3 of votes. That amended constitution
shall be enforced from the date of approval of the Provincial Director of Rural Development.
(4) The Chairman of the Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall be appointed from
among the Chairmen/Secretaries of Rural Development Societies/Women Rural Development Societies,
whereas the Rural Development Officer of the division in which that Divisional Board of Authority is
located shall ex-officio be appointed as the Secretary of the Divisional Board of Authority. The Divisional
Secretary of the area in which that Divisional Board of Authority is located shall become the ex-officio
Advisor of that Divisional Board of Authority.
(5) District Board of Authority shall be established by the representation of Chairmen and the
Secretaries of Rural Development Divisonal Boards of Authority.
(6) Aims of a District Board of Authority are :
(a) Having provided assistance for the promotion of Rural Development Societies within the
district, providing advice, funds and guidance for the promotion of Rural Development
Societies within the district ;
(b) Formulating the District Rural Development plan by accumulating the Rural Development
plans of Divisional Boards of Authority ;
(c) Formulating the District Development Plan in co-operation with the administrtive
organizations of the district ;
Establishment of
Divisional
Boards of
Authority, aims
of Divisional
Boards of
Authority and its
functions.
Establishment of
Rural
Development
District Boards
of Authority,
aims and
functions of it.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
6A
(d) Provide assistance necessary for the implementation of the District Development Plan by
functioning in a manner that increas the co-operation with other societies, corporations
and organizations situated within the district ;
(e) Representing the Provincial Board of Authoirty.
(7) For the District Board of Authority, a constitution that conforms to the format stated in the
Schedule IV of this statute and has been approved by the Director of Rural Development of the province
and published in the  Gazette paper should be there and that constitution will have to be accepted by the
majority when the societies are established. If certain change needs to be made into the constitution that
has been published in the Gazette paper by the Director, at an assembly where 3/4 of members take part, the
constitution may be amended by 2/3 of votes. That amended constitution shall be enforcd from the date of
approval of the Provincial Director of Rural Development.
(8)  The Chairman of the District Board of Authority shall be appointed from among the Chairmen
of  Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority, whereas, the District Rural Development Officer or
Assistant Director of Rural Development shall become the ex-officio Secretary therein. District Secretary
shall become the ex-officio Advisor of the District Board of Authority.
08. (1) Including the Chairman and Secretaries of every District Board of Authority, by the
representation of the following mentioned persons, Provincial Board of Authority shall be established.
(a) Provincial Director of Rural Development ;
(b) Provincial Assistant Director of Rural Develoment ;
(c) District Rural Development Officers ;
(d) Chairmen and Secretaries of District Boards of Authority ;
(e) From among the members Boards of Authority of the 3 Districts, 3 person representing the
3 Districts, appointed by the minister purviewing the relevant subject.
(2) The aims of the Provincial Board of the Authority :
(a) Formulating the Provincial Rural Development Policy according to the National Policy ;
(b) Taking necessary measures to implement that Provincial Policy ;
(c) Controlling the Provincial Rural Development Fund ;
(d) Identifying, planning and implementing the special projectts needed for Rural Development
of the Province ;
(e) Performing Provincial Rural Development training and research activities.
(3) For the Rural Development Provincial Board of Authority, a constitution that conforms to the
format stated in the Schedule V of this statute and has been approved by the Director of Rural Development
of the Province and published in the Gazette paper, should be there and that constitution will have to be
accepted by the mojority when the Provincials Boards of Authority is established. If certain change needs
to be made into the constitution that has been published in the Gazette paper by the Director of Rural
Development, at an assembly where 3/4 of members take part, the constitution may be amended by 2/3 of
votes. That amended constitution shall be enforced from the date of approval of the Provincial Director of
Rural Development.
(4) The Chairman of the Provincial Board of Authority shall be selected from the Chairmen of Rural
Development District Boards of Authorities. Assistant Director of Rural Development shall become the

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
Secretary of the Provincial Board of Authority. Provincial Director of Rural Development shall become the
Advisor. The quorum of Provincial Board of authority shall be 6. Rural Development Provincial Board of
Authority shall assemble every month.
Part V
09. (1) To get provisions allocated and to bear other expenses for the accomplishment of aims of
this statute, a Provincial Rural Development Fund which shall hereinafter be stated as “Rural Development
Fund” is established by this. Under this fund, Provincial Rural Development Account shall be opened and
maintained.
(2) The money received from the following sources shall be remitted to this fund :
(a) Grants received from the Government ;
(b) Grants made by the Provincial Council Fund ;
(c) 1/5 of the benefits received by the contractual services ;
(d) Money received (as presents, aids) either from local or foreign persons or institutions ;
(e) Funds received from other legally accepted ways.
(3) The following expenses can be borne by the Rural Development Fund on the recommendation
of the Provincial Board of Authority and on the approval of the Secretary of the Ministry :
(a) Investing money on the recommendation of Rural Development Societies/Women Rural
Development Societies, Divisional Rural Development Boards of Authority, Rural
Development District Boards of Authority ;
(b) Rural Development programmes and vocational training and research programmes of the
Province ;
(c) Training programmes conducted in lieu of the improvement of Rural Development Societies/
Women Rural Development Societies ;
(d) Administrative expenses for Rural Development Divisional/District/Provincial Boards of
Authority ;
(e) Expenses in lieu of social, economic, cultural and Spiritual Development which facilitate
the enhancement of Rural Development Affiars.
(4) The financial year of the Rural Development Fund shall be a calendar year. Rural Development
Fund shall only be maintaned in  State Bank like People’s Bank, Bank of Ceylon or National Savings Bank.
(5) The money of the Fund which is not needed immediately may be invested as stipulated in 9(4)
in a State Bank or as State Funds therein.
(6) Payments made by the Fund shall be specified by Procedural Rules.
(7) The powers exercised by the Auditor General under Section 154 of the Constitution shall be
enforced in relation to auditing of accounts. Provisions of the Financial Act, No. 38 of 1971 shall be relevant
herein with necessary alterations.
(8) As stated in the Sub-section 7(1), subsequent to receiving the report of the Auditor General in
relation to a certain calendar year, a report by the Director containing relevant explanations pertaining to
those facts and administration shall be forwarded along with following mentioned documents to the
Minister through the Secretary of the Ministry
The report of the Auditor General, balance sheet and the Revenue/Expenditure Account.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
8A
(9) The copies of the report and documents sent to the Minister under Sub-section 9(8) shall be
presented to the Provincial Council by the Minister.
Part VI
10 (1) In an instance where it has been reported that faulty utilization of money or forgery or
bribery and corruption has occurred in a properly registered Rural Development Society, subsequent to
obtaining a preliminary report through proper officers and when sufficient facts are there to satisfy the
suspicion that such forgery or bribery or corruption have occurred, or else when the societies remain
defunct for more than 6 months, the Director of Rural Development/Divisional Secretary shall make necessary
provisions through the Rural Development Officers to suspend all the activities of the said Rural Development
Society and to appoint a new board of Office bearers by calling in a special General Meeting of the society.
Further, in a situation of faulty utilization of money or forgery or bribery and corruption, the Director of
Rural Development/Divisional Secretary has the authority to take further legal action under contemporary
valid law against the relevant officers.
(2) At a situation when it has been reported that faulty utilization of money or forgery or bribery
and corruption have occurred in a constitutionally appointed Rural Development Divisional Board of
Authority or Rural Development District Board of Authority, subsequent to obtaining a preliminary report
through an officer speciafically authorized by the Director of Rural Development and when sufficient facts
are there to satisfy the suspicion that such forgery or faulty utilization of money or bribery and corruption
have occurred, or else when the said Board of Authority remains defunct for more than 6 months, the
Director has the authority to dissolve the said Board of Authority.
(3) All the immovable and movable property belonging to dissolved Rural Development Divisional
Board of Authority or Rural Development District Board of Authority, accounts documents, name lists of
members, all the files relevant to utilization will be assigned to the Director of Rural Development. The
officers of said Board of Authorities dissolved, shall not be exempted from their responsibility until those
properties are handed over to an officer named by the Director of Rural Development.
(4) In relation to a certain Divisional Board of Authority or Provincial Board of Authority of the
Rural Development Society that have been dissolved regarding faulty utilization of money or forgery or
irregularities, the Director of Rural Development has the Authority to take further legal action under the
contemporary valid law against officers of a Rural Development Society, Divisional Authority or Provincial
Authority.
(5) At a situation when it  has been reported that faulty utilization of money or forgery or
irregularities have occurred in a constitutionally appointed Rural Development Provincial Board of Authority,
subsequent to obtaining a preliminary report through an officer specifically authorized by the Director of
Rural Development or Secretary and when sufficient facts are there to satisfy the suspicion that such
forgery or faulty utilization of money or irregularities have occurred, or else when the said Board of
Authority remains defunct for more than 6 months, the Secretary of the ministry has the authority to
dissolve the said Board of Authority.
(6) Under Sub-section 10(5) above, all the immovable and movable property belonging to the
dissolved Rural Development Provincial Board of Authority, accounts documents, name lists of members,
all the files relevant to usage will be assigned to the Secretary of the Ministry. The Board of Office Bearers
of the said dissolved Board of Authority shall not be exempted from their responsibility until those properties
are handed over to an officer named by the Secretary of the Ministry.
(7) Under Sub-section 17(4) above, at a situation when faulty utilization of money or forgery or
irregularities have occurred in a constitutionally appointed Rural Development Provincial Board of Authority,
subsequent to obtaining a preliminary report through an officer specifically authorized by the Director of
Dissolution of
Rural
Development
Socieites.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
Rural Develoment and when the said Board of Authority has been dissolved by the Secretary of the
Ministry in charge of the relevant subject, the Rural Development Director has the authority to take further
legal action under the contemporary valid law against said faulty utilization of money or forgery or
irregularities that have occurred.
11 (1) Rules can be complied by the Minister with regard to matters stated as should be specified
under Section 11(2) of this Statute.
(2) Subjected to authority assigned by the above Sub-section, Rules can be compiled for the
following mentioned matters :
(a) Rules of procedure, condisions and formats that should be followed to register a Rural
Development Society/Women Rural Development Society ;
(b) Minimum number of membership of a society applying for registration ;
(c) Savings, accumulations and loan provisions from the members’ money accumulated
through small group units established through Rural Development Society/Women Rural
Development Society ;
(d) Ordering the Rules of Procedure for Divisional Rural Development Board of Authority,
District Rural Development Board of Authority and Provincial Rural Development Board
of Authority ;
(e) In relation to model constitutions of Rural Development Society/Women Rural
Development Society, Divisional Rural Development Board of Authority, District Rural
Development Board of Authority and Provincial Rural Development Board of Authority ;
(f) In relation to auditing of funds of Rural Development Societies ;
(g) In relation to the accomplishment of the aims of this Statute, whatever duty that comes
under this Statute.
(3) Every Rule complied by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette paper. At the date of
such publication or a date subsequent to such date as stated in Rules, it shall be implemented.
(4) Every Rule complied by the Minister, subsequent to publishing the said Rules in the Gazette
paper, shall be presented for the approval of the Provincial Council as soon as possible. Every Rule not
adopted thus shall be considered as repealed without any bias to anything conducted previously from the
date of receiving that approval.
12. In an occasion where an appeal is made within a month from the date of receiving certain order
or decision from the Director of Rural Development according to his discretion under rules, regulations and
provisions formulated by this statute or under this statute, or when the Secretary feels that such decision
is improper, the discretion pertaining to repealing or amendment of such decision or order is vested on the
Secretary of the Ministry.
13. Eventhough the Rural Development Statute No. 05 of 1998 is hereby repealed, all the functions
performed under the said statute shall be considered as functions performed and is being performed under
this statute. Similarly, the Department of Rural Development established under the said statute shall be
considered as the Department of Rural Development established under this statute.
14. Unless other meaning is required with regard to the text of this statute :
(1) The Minister in charge of the subject of the Rural Development of the Western Province
Provincial Council is meant by the term “Minister” ;
Rules.
Interpretations.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
10A
(2) The Secretary of the Ministry under which the subject of the Rural Development of the
Western Province Provincial Council is purviewed shall be meant by the term “Secretary
of the Ministry” ;
(3) The current Director of the Department of Rural Development of the Western Provincial
Council or an officer properly appointed to act in his position or an officer who is authorized
in lieu of him is meant by the term “Director” ;
(4) The officers appointed to support the Director of the Department of Rural Development
and to maintain those duties properly are meant by “Assistant Director” ;
(5) All the properties such as books, documents, balance in hand, money deposited in Banks
and other financial institutions, furniture, vehicles, equipment, buildings and lands etc.
belonging to the Rural Development Society, Rural Development Divisional, District and
Provincial Boards of Authority, are meant by the term “Property” ;
(6) The Grama Niladharai Division or the village with traditional bonds or “gamgodella” or
estate-village-unit or any settlement or estates located in an area of Urban Local Authority
is meant by the term “village” ;
(7) The Rural Development Society established with the representation of both males and
females who reside in the village is termed as the “Rural Development Society” ;
(8) The Rural Development Society established with the representation of females residing in
the village is termed as the “Women Rural Development Society”.
21. If certain inconsistency occurs among the Sinhala text and the Tamil or English texts, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE  I
Rural Development Societies Model Constitutional Code
01. Name : ————.
02. Address : ————.
03. Authority : ————.
04. Aims : ————.
(a) Functioning for the economic, social, health, educational, moral and cultural improvement
of people in the area covered by the society ;
(b) Taking measures to create economic, Helath and Social Development of villagers by
being based on self-power and through collective efforts and by utilizing services and
resources provided by the Government and non-Governmental organizations ;
(c) Through collection of the data required for the formulation of rural development plans,
formulation of development programmes through identification of resources, also, by
educating people, taking steps to upgrade the individual, family and whole community
of the area of Authority ;

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
(d) While providing all the parties with total support necessary for the creation of unity
among people of the area and functioning  accordingly ;
(e) Taking measures to protect social values necessary for peaceful harmoney and to
protect them without letting them deteriorate.
05. Role ( a) Providing common facilities and other services, providing Government Projects and
different supporting systems to the village ;
(b) Supporting environment preservation and Development ;
(c) Supporting to protect and develop Government property ;
(d) Formulation of rural plans having collected social, cultural and economic data and
implementing them ‘
(e) Forwarding proposals by Divisonal Secretariats, Provincial Council, Local Government
Institutions to the Government for the development of the area covered by the society
and accomplishing “Public Utility” work for the benefit of villagers ;
(f) Taking steps to increase economic productivity of members of the Society and to take
steps to create job opportunities ;
(g) When Development Programmes are formulated, summoning officers of relevant
sections in state sector or corporations or boards and co-ordinating them ;
06. Powers In order to implement aforesaid objectives and role, the society has the power to formulate
and implement plans by co-ordinating Government, Non-governmental institutions and
organizations also, to be vigilant about the common development activities of the area.
07. Membership ( a) Prerequisities to obtain Membership :
(i) Being a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Be a person of permanent residence within the area covered by the authority of the
society and be over 18 years old in age ;
(iii) Not being a member of other Rural Development Society/Women society.
(b) Obtaining Membership :
(i) Having duly filled a prescribed format accepted by the society by the persons who
have participated into the first meeting of the society, or by persons who did not
attend the first meeting but who are eligible to be members, shall forward such
format to a Committee member ;
(ii) Subjected to considering and seconding of the application by the general meeting
of the society, the Committee shall enlist members.
(c) Annulment of Membership :
(i) Death ;
(ii) Quitting residency from the area of authority of the society ;
(iii) Due to non-participation actively in activities implemented by the society or being
absent for 03 consecutive general of Committee Meetings of the society without
informing ; the General Meetings can annul Membership on the Agreement of the
Majority ;
5 — PG  1739

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
12A
(iv) Resigning from membership ;
(v) Upon convition of functioning against objectives of the society, membership may
be terminated by the agreement of the mojority of members.
(d) Loss of membership of the Committee
Membership is annulled when participation for 03 consecutive Committee Meetings is
defaulted without providing a justifiable reason. Upon annulment of the Membership,
any office held by that person gets annulled too. Such annulment of office shall be
informed by either Chairman or Secretary to the Active Committee. In the absence of
the Chairman or Secretary, Deputy Chairman or Deputy Secretary may act so. The
society shall take measures to fill such vacancy within two weeks.
08. General Meeting
and Committee
Meeting.
(a) General Meeting
A General shall at least be held once in four months. By notices pasted in public places
of the village prior to 07 days of the meeting, convening for the meeting shall be
informed.
(b) Annual General Meeting
An annual General Meeting by the participation of all the members shall be convened
to select a new Committee of Office Members, to review progress and to prepare plans
for the oncoming year. Divisional Secretary, District Rural Development Officers, Rural
Development Officers and Grama Niladhari of the area shall be invited for this meeting.
(c) Committee Meetings
Subsequent to appointing Office Members at the initial meeting, the Committee shall at
least assemble monthly. The Secretary shall inform the date of the meeting through
private announcement prior to 04 days of the meeting.
(d) Meeting to select office bearers
By the agreement of the mojority, office bearers shall be selected and appointed at the
Annual General Meeting. The official tenure of officers shall be 02 years. If any office
is vacated prior to Annural General Meeting, that vacancy shall be filled at a General
Meeting held prior to the Annual General Meeting.
(e) Special General Meeting
On the decision of the Committee or on written request of members not less than 25%
or on written notice by Divisional Secretary, Rural Development District Officer/Rural
Development Officer, the Secretary may convene a Special General Meeting after allowing
a period of 07 days.
(f) Special Committee Meeting
On a written request by 1/3 of the members of the Committee or on written notice by
Divisional Secretary, Rural Develoment District Officer, Rural Development Officer, the
Secretary may convene a Special Committee Meeting after allowing a period of at least
05 days.
09. Quorum ( a) For the quorum of General Meeting/Special General Meeting and annual General Meeting
more than 1/3 members therein shall be present ;
(b) For the quorum of Committee Meeting/Special Committee Meeting, more than 1/2 of
members therein shall be present.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
10. Officers ( a) Appointing main office bearers
The main office bearers are selected from among the people present for the initial
meeting. Although a public representative of Parliament, Provincial Council, Municipal
Council, Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha may become a member of the society, they
are not eligible to be appointed as Committee Members of a Rural Development Society
or to be selected to the board of office bearers of the society.
1. Chairman
2. Secretary
3. Treasurer
4. Deputy Chairman
5. Deputy Secretary
(b) Committee members
Any number of members as required can be appointed as Committee Membes in a
manner representing all the villages, buildings or different ethnic groups of the area
under authority.
(c) Advisor
Proper persons can be selected on the discretion of the society.
(d) Instructor
The Rural Development Officer of the area ex-officio becomes the instructor of the
society. He has the powers to inspect books and all matters of the society.
11. Roles endorsed by
the Office Bearers
(a) Chairman
(i) Directing the Committee Meetings/General Meeting/Special General Meeting/Annual
General Meeting.
(b) Secretary
(i) Taking measures to call all meetings ;
(ii) Maintaining books and documents of the society accurately and properly, carrying
out letter transactions on behalf of the society ;
(iii) Informing relevant officers and institutions with regard to the decisions of the
Committee Meetings and General Meetings and taking actions as per letters
received.
(c) Treasurer
(i) The Treasurer holds the security of finances of the society and responsibility for
transactions ;
(ii) Maintaining account settlement books properly ;
(iii) Presenting financial reports on time to relevant institutions through Rural
Development Officer ;
(iv) Having prepared the reports regarding monetary situation and transactions of the
society, and subsequent to obtaining approval from the Committee and from the
General Meeting in necessary situations, presenting them to Rural Development

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
14A
Officer and relevant institutions. If the Treasurer resigns, money and books in his
possession shall be transferred to a person named by the Divisional Secretary ;
(v) Referring documents to the accounts supervisor of the society when he requests
such and supporting him to perform his role.
(d) Deputy Chairman
(i) Acting on behalf of the Chairman in his absence.
(e) Deputy Secretary
(i) Supporting the Secretary and taking responsibility on his behalf in his absence.
(f) Accounts Supervisor
(i) An Accounts Supervisor should be appointed to check finances, books and stocks
of the Rural Development Society and to report about accounts annually when the
General Meeting requires so. He shall be an independent person and shoud not
belong to the board of officers. He shall inspect the expenditure carried out by the
society as per constitution and present his/her observances and confirmation
with regard to finances and transactions of the society ;
(ii) Rural Development Societies that carry on affairs in relation to Rs. 50,000.00 or an
amount exceeding that shall require to obtain services of Co-operative Development
Officers or other accepted audit personnel. If a remuneration has to be made on
behalf of such service, that too may be performed.
12. Board of Trust ( a) A Board of  Trust including the Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer shall be appointed to
bear responsibility regarding moveable and immovable property in possession of the
society and to control them. The Board of Trust shall be appointed both in office and
name by the Geneal Meeting itself ;
(b) Any activity or affair of the Board of Trust shall not be impeded due to certain vacancy
in the membership of the Board ;
(c) Trustees,as the officers of society, shall not have any right to receive certain
remuneration in the form of salaries, allowances, award or money. But, expenses borne
by them in the accomplishment of certain affair may be obtained from the money of the
society by adoption at the meeting.
13. Membership fees Not more than Rupees .................. monthly (the amount adopted by the General Meeting),
shall be charged from a Member as Membership fee.
14. Special Funds Special funds to implement special projects, received from the Central Government or
Provincial Council or any other institution, shall be deposited in an account. When such
money is withdrawn, either the Divisional Secretary or Rural Development Officer shall sign
on behalf of the Government, whereas the Treasurer and Secretary or Chairman shall sign
on behalf of the Society.
It certain amount of money needs to be collected in a special occasion, prior approval shall
be obtained from the Divisional Secretary for that. As soon as such collected money is
spent, a report of how that money was spent shall, along with the approval of the General
Meeting, be presented through the Rural Development Officer to the Divisional Secretary.
The duration for this presentation shall not exceed three months.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
15. Fund of the Society The consolidated fund of the society shall comprise of the Membershp Fee collected from
the Members of the Society, prizes and money earned from other programmes. From those
funds, an amount of Rs. 2000.00 can be retained with the Treasurer on the approval of the
General Meeting whereas the rest of the money shall be deposited in a State Bank. When
such money is withdrawn, either the Divisional Secretary or Rural Development Officer
shall approve. Those funds shall be spent for Common Development tasks. When the
society becomes inactive, the money and the assets of the society shall be acquired by the
Divisional Secretary and transfer back to the reformed society.
16. Progress Reports A detailed report regarding measures taken for the well-being of Membership-families, and
a detailed report regarding the progress of work carried out by the society shall be presented
every month through the Rural Development Officer to the Divisional Secretary.
17. Official Tenure of
Officers
Official tenure of Officers is two years. Prior to termination of those two years, if the office
happens to be vacated by the death or resignation of an office bearer, or in any other way,
and, when an office bearer is appointed to any such vacated office, that newly appointed
office bearer shall, subjected to the provisions of this constitution, bear such office for the
remaining time period of his predecessor’s official tenure.
18. Common Frank The common frank of the Rural Development Society/Women’s Society shall be kept in the
possession of the Secretary of Rural Development Society/Women’s Society and this official
frank shall not be placed on a contract or other instrument on behalf of the Society without
the presence of the Chairman or Treasurer.
19. Amendment to the
Constitution
Without being contrary to the basic objectives, the members have the right to amend this
constitution to suit their area of Authority. In a meeting where 3/4 of members are present,
the constitution can be amended by the vote of 2/3 of the members present. The approval
of the Secretary to the Ministry of Rual Development of the Provincial Council should be
obtained for that amendment and it will be enforced subsequent to the date of such approval.
20. The Director of Rural Development of the Western Province has the right to annual the
registration of Rural Development Societies/Women Rural Development Societies, which,
use powers illegally, contrary to the objectives of this constitution.
We, the undersigned Board of Office Bearers do hereby certify that this constitution was adopted at the General
Meeting of .................................................................................... (Name of the Society) held on ...................................................
(Date) and this was accepted as the constitution of our society.
Designation Name Signature
1. Chairman
2. Secretary
3. Treasurer
4. Deputy Chairman
5. Deputy Secretary.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
16A
SCHEDULE  II
Application Format for he Registration of Rural Development Society / Women Rural Development Society of the
Western Province
1. Divisional Secretariat are : ————.
2. Number of the Grama Niladhari Division and name : ————.
3. Name of the Rural Development Society/Women Society : ————.
4. Number of registered families of the village :
(i) Number of families obtained membership ;
(ii) Number of members ;
(iii) Number of small development units ;
5. The date on which General Meeting was held to commence the society :
6. (i) Name and address of the person selected as the Chairman ;
(ii) Name and address of the person selected as the Secretary ;
(iii) Name and address of the person selected as the Treasurer ;
(iv) The bank in which the account is opened ;
(v) Bank Account Number.
7. Wealth of the Society :
(i) Money of the society in Treasurer’s hand : Rs. .......................................................
(ii) Money accounted in banks : Rs. .......................................................
(iii) Value of land and buildings : Rs. .......................................................
(iv) V alue of equipment etc. : Rs. .......................................................
                                                        Total
........................................................ ....................................................................... ..
Signature of Chairman. Signature of Secretary :
Date : Date :
Signature of Rural Development Officer
Date :
Approval of the Divisional Secretary :
Divisional Secretary

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
SCHEDULE  III
Constitution of the Rural Development Divisional Boards of Authority
1. Name :
Shall be named as the Rural Development Divisional Board of  Authority of the ........................................................
Divisional Secretariat.
2. Address :
Secretary,
Rural Develpment Divisional Board of Authority,
Divisional Secretariat
......................................................... .
3. Area of Authority : Divisional Secretariat area of ....................................................................
4. Aims :
1. Providing aids to promote Rural Development Societies and Women Rural Development Societies ;
2. Providing support to accomplish the objectives of those societies ;
3. Representing District Boards of Authority ;
4. Compiling Divisional Rural Development plans ;
5. Improving the Social, Economical and Cultural Statuses of the people of the area ;
6. Improving physical facilities of the people of the area ;
7. Co-ordination with other societies, associations and organizations.
5. Structure, Membership, Official tenure ;
1. Subsequent to establishing and registering of Rural Development Societies in 51% of Grama Niladhari areas
from among the Grama Niladhari areas of a Divisional Secretariat, Rural Development Divisional Board of
Authority shall be established ;
2. The Chairmen and Secretaries of the registered, active Rural Development Societies and Women Rural
Development Societies of a Divisional Secretariat area become members of the Rural Development Divisional
Board of Authority ;
3. The Rural Development Officer of the said Divisional Secretariat shall become the Secretary therein ;
4. A Chairman, Deputy Chairman and 07 Committee Members of the Rural Development Divisional Board of
Authority shall be appointed by vote or common consent at the meeting of the Board of Authority. Since no
activities pertaining to money shall take place here, a Treasurer shall not be appointed ;
5. The official tenure of a Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall be 02 years. However, the
official tenure of the Chairman selected to Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall be equal
to the official tenure of the Rural Development Society he represents. In case the official tenure of the
Chairman appointed terminates prior to the official tenure of the Rural Development Society which he
represents, another member shall be appointed as the Chairman of  Divisional Board of Authority for the
remaining time-period. A document indicating time-periods with regard to Rural Development Societies in
which official tenure terminates shall compulsorily by maintained by the Secretary (Rural Development
Officer).

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
18A
6. Termination of Membership :
(a) By resignation or removal from the Chairmanship of a Rural Development Society ;
(b) At the termination of the official tenure of the Rural Development Society represented by one ;
(c) Without prior information, being absent to the meetings of Divisional Board of Authority for three consective
meetings ;
(d) By acting contrary to the constitution (can be removed from office or Membership by the adoption of 2/3 of
vote of the meeting) ;
(e) Due to death of the member ;
(f) Change of residency.
7. General Meeting
(a) The General Meeting of the Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall assemble at least once
in three months.
8. Committee Meeting
The Committee Meeting of the Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority shall at least assemble monthly.
9. Special General Meetings / Special Committee Meetings
By a written request of 1/3 of the members or according or contemporary emergency situations, having discussed
with the Divisional Secretary of the relevant area of authority, a Special General Meeting / Committee Meeting shall
be convened by the Rural Development Officer (Secretary).
10. Quorum
The quorum of the General Meetings, Special General Meetings and Annual General Meetings of the Rural
Development Divisional Board of Authority shall be 1/3 of its total number of members. The quorum of a Special
Committee Meeting shall at least by 1/2 of the Members.
11. Appointing Sub-Committees
In order to continue affairs of the Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority properly, 5 Sub-committees as
stated below shall be appointed. To accomplish the duties of these Committees, care should be taken to appoint
veterans in the relevant subject.
1. Religious and Cultural Committee ;
2. Economic and Planning Committee ;
3. Shramadana and Agricultural Committe ;
4. Health and Environmental Committee ;
5. Education and Training Committee.
The number of members of a Sub-committee shall be decided by the Divisional Board of Authority. The supervision
activities of these Sub-committees shall be carried out by the relevant Divisional Secretary and the Rural
Development Officer.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
12. Dissolution of the Divisional Board of Authority
The Director of Rural Development has powers to dissolve certain Divisional Board of Authority acting contrary
to the objectives of the Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority or defunct or due to misuse of powers
or, if revealed by an inspection carried out under Sub-section 10(2) of Rural Development Statute that forgery or
irregularities have occurred.
We confirm that this constitution was adopted  at the General Meeting held on ................................... (Date) and this
was accepted as the constitution of our Divisional Board of Authority.
..................................................... ...........................................................
Chairman Secretary.
Committee Members
1. 3. 5. 7.
2. 4. 6.
SCHEDULE  IV
Constitution of the Rural Development District Board of Authority
1. Name :
Shall be named as the Rural Development District Board of  Authority of the ........................................................
Divisional Secretariat.
2. Address :
Secretary,
Rural Develpment District Board of Authority,
Divisional Secretariat,
......................................................... .
3. Area of Authority :   .................................................................... District
4. Aims :
1. Supporting promotion of Rural Development Societies within the District, providing instructions and aids ;
2. Having accumulated Rural Development plans of Divisional Boards of Authorities, compiling the District
Rural Development Plan ;
3. Preparation of the District Development Plan by working in collaboration with administrative bodies of the
District ;
4. Provide Assistance necessary for the implementation of the District Development Plan by functioning in a
manner that increases the co-operation with Multi-Ethnic Organizations ;
5. Representing the Provincial Board of Authority ;
5. Structure, Membership and Official tenure ;
1. The Chairman of the District Board of Authority shall be appointed by the representation of the Rural
Development Divisional Boards of Authority, District Rural Development Officer shall become the ex-oficio
Secretary of it. District Secretary shall become the ex-officio adviser of the District Board of Authority ;

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
20A
2. By the representation of Chairmen and Secretaries of the Divisional Boards of Authorities of the District,
District Board of Authority is established ;
3. The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and 07 Committee Members of the District Board of Authority shall be
appointed at the General Meeting of the District Board of Authority. Since, no activities pertaining to money
shall take place here, a Treasurer shall not be appointed.
The official tenure of a Rural Development District Board of Authority shall be 02 years. If the official tenure
of the Chairman terminates prior to the termination of the official tenure of District Board of Authority,
another member can be appointed as the Chairman for the remaining time period.
6. Termination of Membership :
1. At the termination of the official tenure of the Society represented by one ;
2. Due to resignation or removal from the office of Chairman or Secretary of a Rural Development Society ;
3. By acting contrary to the constitution ;
4. Being absent to three consecutive meetings without informing or due to death of the member ;
5. Change of residency ;
7. General Meeting
The Meetings of  Rural Development District Board of Authority shall assemble at least once in three months.
8. Committee Meeting
The Committee Meeting of  Rural Development District Board of Authority shall assemble at least once a month.
9. Special General Meetings / Special Committee Meetings
By a written request of 1/3 of the members or according to contemporary emergency situations, having discussed
with the Rural Development Provincial Director, a Special  General Meeting / Committee Meeting shall be convened
by the District Rural Development Officer (Secretary).
10. Quorum
The quorum of the General Meeting and Special General Meetings of the Rural Development District Boards of
Authority shall be 1/3 of its total number of members. The quorum of a Special Committee Meeting shall at least by
1/2 of the Members.
11. Appointing Sub-Committees
In order to continue affairs of the Rural Development District Board of Authority properly, Sub-committees can be
appointed. To accomplish the duties of these Committees, care should be taken to appoint veterans in the relevant
subject.
1. Religious and Cultural Committee ;
2. Economic and Planning Committee ;
3. Shramadana and Agricultural Committe ;
4. Health and Environmental Committee ;
5. Education and Training Committee.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
The number of members of a Sub-committee shall be decided by the District Board of Authority. In order to
implement the decisions taken by these Sub-Committees and at meetings, they shall be referred to the approval of
the Provincial Board of Authority. The decision, approval and provisions pertaining to implementation of the said
decisions shall be provided by the Provincial Board of Authority.
12. Dissolution of the District Board of Authority
The Director of Rural Development has powers to dissolve certain District Board of Authority that act  contrary to
the constitution of the Rural Development District Board of Authority or defunct or due to misuse of powers or, if
revealed by an inspection carried out under Sub-section 10(2) of Rural Development Statute that forgery or
irregularities have occurred.
We confirm that this constitution was adopted  at the General Meeting held on ................................... (Date) and this
was accepted as the constitution of our District Board of Authority.
..................................................... ...........................................................
Chairman Secretary.
Committee Members
1. ...............................................................................
2. ...............................................................................
3. ...............................................................................
4. ..............................................................................
5. ..............................................................................
6. ..............................................................................
7. ...............................................................................
SCHEDULE  V
Constitution of the Rural Development Provincial Board of Authority
1. Name :
Shall be named as the Rural Development Provincial  Board of  Authority of the ........................................................
2. Address :
Secretary,
Rural Develpment Provincial Board of Authority,
........................................................,
......................................................... .
3. Area of Authority :   Western Province (Colombo/Gampaha/Kalutara) District
4. Aims :
1. Preparation of a Provincial Rural Development Policy according to the National Policy ;
2. Providing necessary instructions to implement that Provincial National Policy ;
3. Establishing and Controlling the Provincial Rural Development Fund ;
4. Identifying, planning and implementing the special projects needed for the Rural Development of the
Province ;

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
22A
5. Provincial Rural Development training activities ;
6. Creating proper co-ordination among Rural Development Societies, Divisional Rural Development, and
District Rural Development Board of Authorities and taking decisions having paid attention to proposals
and opinions received from those societies and boards of authorities and providing necessary
recommendations and guidance.
5. Structure :
1. Director of Provincial Rural Development ;
2. Three representative appointed by the Minister per each district from among the Chairmen of the District
Board of Authorities of the three districts and members of the boards of the three districts ;
3. District Rural Development Officers/Three Rural Development Assistant Directors relating to the three
districts ;
4. Assistant Director of Provincial Rural Development ;
5. By the representation of Chairmen, Secretaries of every Rural Development District Board of Authority and
Director of Rural Development, the Provincial Board of Authority is established.
6. Membership :
1. Being a Chairman representing a Rural Development District Board of Authority ;
2. Representatives appointed by the Minister ;
3. Director of Rural Development ;
4. Assistant Directors of Provincial Rural Development ;
5. District Rural Development Officers
7. Termination of Membership :
1. At the termination of the official tenure of the Society represented by one ;
2. Due to annulment of one’s Membership or Office of a Divsional Board of Authority/District Board of
Authority ;
3. Due to resignation ;
4. By acting contrary to the constitution ;
5. Change of residency ;
6. By death ;
8. Appointment of the Chairman of Provincial Board of Authority
Provincial Board of Authority shall constitute of three persons appointed by the Minister in charge of the relevant
subject from among the Chairmen and Secretaries of Provincial Board of Authority and District Boards of Authorities
to represent the three districts. One person appointed among them by the Minister, shall become the Chairman of
the Provincial Board of Authority.
An Assistant Director of Rural Development shall become the Secretary of the Provincial Board of Authority.
9. Meetings
The Meetings of the Provincial Board of Authority shall be held every month. The quorum therein should be six.
10. Funds
(1) In order accumulate provisions to get the objectives of the Provincial Board of Authority accomplished and
to bear expenses, a fund is established ;

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
(2) To the account of this fund, money is remitted from the following mentiond resources :
(i) Grants received from the Government ;
(ii) Grants made by the Provincial Council Fund ;
(iii) 1/5 of the benefits received from contractual services of Rural Development Societies ;
(iv) Money received from local or foreign person or organizations of  (as prize, funds)  ;
(v) Revenue received from other accepted legal means.
(3) This fund shall be deposited in a savings or current account of a State Bank, namely, Bank of Ceylon,
People’s Bank or National Savings Bank ;
(4) When this money is withdrawn, Rural Development Provincial Director, Secretary (Assistant Director of
Rural Development) shall sign on behalf of the Government whereas on behalf of the Provincial Board of
Authority, either the Chairman or nominated Provincial Board of Authority representative shall sign.
11. Finance Activity, Accounting and Auditing
1. All the payments made by this fund shall be carried out as prescribed by rules ;
2. All the money which is not required shall immediately be invested in a State Bank or in State Funds ;
3. The Secretary to the Ministry shall carry out the financial control of  the account of this fund and he shall
present the annual budget report pertaining to financial transactions, as well as the Account-Audit Report
to the Western Province Provincial Council through the Minister in charge of the subject of Western
Province Rural Development ;
4. The financial year of the fund shall be one calendar year ;
5. Subsequent to elapse of each financial year, the Director of Rural Development shall, as soon as possible,
prepare accounts and the annual report. The Secretary of the Provincial Board of Authority shall facilitate
provisions to maintain accounts completely and properly for each financial year.
6. The Minister shall, as soon as possible, present Annual Reports and Audit Report of the fund pertaining to
each calendar year to the Western Province Provincial Council.
12. Spending Money
The following expenditure can be made by the approval of the Secretary to the Ministry on the recommendations
of the Provincial Board of Authority.
1. Based in skills, investing money for Development Programmes that have been prepared by Rural Development
Societies and approved by the Divisional / District / Provincial Boards of Authority ;
2. Spending for Vacational Training Programmes on behalf of improving the Rural Development Programmes of
the Province ;
3. Spending for Training Programmes conducted on behalf of the promotion of Rural Development Societies ;
4. Administrative expenses for Divisional / District / Provincial Boards of Authority ;
5. Expenses in lieu of Social, Economic, Cultural and Spiritual Development which are needed for the upgrading
of affairs related to Rural Development.
13. Faulty Utilization of Money, Forgery or Irregularities
1. In an instance where it has been reported that faulty utilization of money or forgery or irregularity has
occurred in a constitutionally appointed Rural Development Society, Divisional Board of Authority or
District Board of Authority, subsequent to obtaining a preliminary report through an officer especially
authorized by the Secretary to the Ministry and when there are facts to satisfy the suspicion that such

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
24A
forgery or faulty utilization of money or irregularities have occurred, or when sufficient facts are there to
prove that a society remain defunct for more than 6 months, the Secretary in charge of the Ministry of the
relevant subject has powers to dissolve the said Board of Authority.
2. All the immovable and movable property, accounts documents, name lists of members, all the files relevant
to usage of a dissolved Rural Development Society or, Rural Development Divisional Board of Authority or,
Rural Development District Board of Authority or, Rural Development Provincial Board of Authority, will be
assigned to the Ministry of Rural Development. The Board of Office Bearers of the said dissolved Boards of
Authority shall not be exempted from their responsibilities until those properties are handed over to an
office named by the Secretary to the Ministry of Rural Development.
14. Term of Office
The Official Tenure of the Provincial Board of Authority is 2 years. In case the Official Tenure of the appointed
Chairman is annulled prior to the tenure of the Rural Development Society which he represents, another member
can be selected at the meeting of the relevant Board of Authority and on the agreement of the Minister in charge
of the subject as the Chairman for the remaining time period.
15. Common Frank
A separate common frank should be prepared in the name of Provincial Board of Authority.
16. Amendments to the Constitution
The Provicial Board of Authority has the power to amend this constitution without contradiction to the initial
objectives to be in par with its province. The constitution can be amended by 2/3 of votes at a meeting. The
approval of the Secretary to the Provincial Ministry of Rural Development shall be obtained to that constitutional
amendment while it will be put into effect from the date of such approval.
We confirm that this constitution was adopted at the General Meeting held on ...........................................................
(Date) and this was accepted as the constitution of our Provincial Board of Authority.
...................................................... .............................. ............................................. ............................................................
Chairman. Director Rural Development. Secretary.
SCHEDULE  VI
Ministry of Transport, Sports and Youth Affairs, Cultural and Arts Affairs, Co-operative Development, Food Supplies
and Distribution and Rural Development (Western Province)
CERTIFICATE  FOR  THE  REGISTRATION  OF  RURAL  DEVELOPMENT SOCIETY/WOMEN
RURAL  DEVELOPMENT  SOCIETY
........................................................................ Rural Development Society/Women Rural Development Society Established
in the village/Tract/estate of................................................................ in the .............................................. Grama Niladhari Division
of the ............................................. Divisional Secretariat area was registered under number ................................
.............................................
 Divisional Secretary.
Date : ........................................................
The Board Trustees of the Society is stated in the overleaf


<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'29
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.08.2013
Appointed Board of Trustees Signature of Date
Date Divisional
Secretary
Hon. Chairman Hon. Secretary Hon. Treasurer
09 - 293
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.