

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2293$59 - 2022 wf.daia;= ui 19 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'08'19
No. 2293/59  -  FRIDAY,  AUGUST   19,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No.  15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
WKH,QVWLWXWHKDVDGRSWHGWKH$PHQGPHQWV6/)56,QVXUDQFH&RQWUDFWVH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJ
RQRUDIWHU-DQXDU\SXEOLVKHGKHUHZLWKIRUWKHSXUSRVHR IWKH6UL/DQND$FFRXQWLQJDQG$XGLWLQJ6WDQGDUGV$FW 
1RRI7KLV6WDQGDUGVKDOOEHH൵HFWLYHIRUDQQXDOUHSRUWLQJSHULRGVEHJLQQLQJRQRUDIWHU-DQXDU\
 
By Order of the Council, 
 R. S. $ඇඈආൺ3උංඒൺൽൺඋඌඁൺඇං,
  Secretary. 
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
&RORPER
19th August, 2022.
N.B.— 6LQKDODDQG7DPLOYHUVLRQVRIWKLV*D]HWWH([WUDRUGLQDU\DUHSXEOLVKHGVHSDUDWHO\
1A - PG 5960 - (08/2022)


<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standard 17 
Insurance Contracts 
Objective 
1 SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts  establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, 
presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts within the scope of the Standard. The objective 
of SLFRS 17 is to ensure that an entity provides relevant infor mation that faithfully represents 
those contracts. This information gives a basis for users of fi nancial statements to assess the effect 
that insurance contracts have on the entity’s financial positio n, financial performance and cash 
flows. 
2. An entity shall consider its substantive rights and obligati ons, whether they arise from a contract, law or 
regulation, when applying SLFRS 17. A contract is an agreement between two or more parties that creates 
enforceable rights and obligations. Enforceability of the rights and obligations in a contract is a matter of 
law. Contracts can be written, oral or implied by an enti ty’s customary business practices. Contractual 
terms include all terms in a contract, explicit or implied, but  an entity shall disregard terms that have no 
commercial substance (ie no discernible effect on the economics  of the contract). Implied terms in a 
contract include those imposed by law or regulation. The practices and processes for establishing contracts 
with customers vary across legal jurisdictions, industries and entities. In addition, they may vary within 
an entity (for example, they may depend on the class of custome r or the nature of the promised goods or 
services). 
 
Scope 
3 An entity shall apply SLFRS 17 to:  
(a) insurance contracts, including reinsurance contracts, it issues; 
(b) reinsurance contracts it holds; and 
(c) investment contracts with discretionary participation features it issues, provided the entity also 
 issues insurance contracts. 
4 All references in SLFRS 17 to insurance contracts also apply to:  
(a) reinsurance contracts held, except:  
(i) for references to insura nce contracts issued; and 
(ii) as described in paragraphs 60 –70A. 
(b) investment contracts with discretionary participation features as set out in paragraph 3(c), except 
for the reference to insurance contracts in paragraph 3(c) and as described in paragraph 71. 
5 All references in SLFRS 17 to insurance contracts issued also  apply to insurance contracts acquired by 
the entity in a transfer of insurance contracts or a business c ombination other than reinsurance contracts 
held. 
6 Appendix A defines an insurance contract and paragraphs B2 –B30 of Appendix 
B provide guidance on the 
definition of an insurance contract. 
7 An entity shall not apply SLFRS 17 to:  
(a) warranties provided by a manufacturer, dealer or retailer i n connection with the sale of its goods 
or services to a customer (see SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers).  
(b) employers’ assets and liabilities from employee benefit plans ( see LKAS 19 Employee 
Benefits and SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment ) and retirement benefit obligations reported by 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    3A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
defined benefit retirement plans (see LKAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit 
Plans). 
(c) contractual rights or contractual obligations contingent on  the future use of, or the right to use, a 
non-financial item (for example, some licence fees, royalties, variable and other contingent lease 
payments and similar items: see SLFRS 15, LKAS 38 Intangible Assets and SLFRS 16 Leases). 
(d) residual value guarantees provided by a manufacturer, dealer or  retailer and a lessee’s residual 
value guarantees when they are embedded in a lease (see SLFRS 15 and SLFRS 16). 
(e) financial guarantee contracts, unless the issuer has previo usly asserted explicitly that it regards 
such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting a pplicable to insurance contracts. 
The issuer shall choose to apply either SLFRS 17 or LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation, SLFRS 7 Financial Instrume nts: Disclosures  and SLFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments to such financial guarantee contracts. The issuer may make tha t choice contract by 
contract, but the choice for each contract is irrevocable. 
(f) contingent consideration payable or receivable in a busines s combination (see SLFRS 3 Business 
Combinations). 
(g) insurance contracts in which the entity is the policyholder, unless those contracts are reinsurance 
contracts held (see paragraph 3(b)).  
(h) credit card contracts, or similar contracts that provide cr edit or payment arrangements, that meet 
the definition of an insurance contract if, and only if, the entity does not reflect an assessment of 
the insurance risk associated with an individual customer in setting the price of the contract with 
that customer (see SLFRS 9 and other applicable SLFRS Standards ). However, if, and only 
if, SLFRS 9 requires an entity to separate an insurance coverag e component (see paragraph 
2.1(e)(iv) of SLFRS 9) that is embedded in such a contract, the  entity shall apply SLFRS 17 to 
that component.  
8 Some contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract b ut have as their primary purpose the 
provision of services for a fixed fee. An entity may choose to apply SLFRS 15 instead of SLFRS 17 to 
such contracts that it issues if, and only if, specified conditions are met. The entity may make that choice 
contract by contract, but the choice for each contract is irrevocable. The conditions are:  
(a) the entity does not reflect an assessment of the risk assoc iated with an individual customer in 
setting the price of the contract with that customer; 
(b) the contract compensates th e customer by providing services , rather than by making cash 
payments to the customer; and 
(c) the insurance risk transferred by the contract arises primarily from the customer’s use of services 
rather than from uncertainty over the cost of those services. 
8A Some contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract but limit the compensation for insured events 
to the amount otherwise required to settle the policyholder’s o bligation created by the contract (for 
example, loans with death waivers). An entity shall choose to apply either SLFRS 17 or SLFRS 9 to such 
contracts that it issues unless such contracts are excluded fro m the scope of SLFRS 17 by paragraph 7. 
The entity shall make that choice for each portfolio of insurance contracts , and the choice for each 
portfolio is irrevocable. 
Combination of insurance contracts 
9 A set or series of insurance contracts with the same or a rel ated counterparty may achieve, or be designed 
to achieve, an overall commercial effect. In order to report th e substance of such contracts, it may be 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
necessary to treat the set or series of contracts as a whole. For example, if the rights or obligations in one 
contract do nothing other than entirely negate the rights or ob ligations in another contract entered into at 
the same time with the same counterparty, the combined effect is that no rights or obligations exist. 
Separating components from an insurance contract (paragraphs B31–B35) 
10 An insurance contract may contain one or more components tha t would be within the scope of another 
Standard if they were separate contracts. For example, an insur ance contract may include an investment 
component or a component for services other than insurance contract serv ices (or both). An entity shall 
apply paragraphs 11–13 to identify and account for the components of the contract. 
11 An entity shall:  
(a) apply SLFRS 9 to determine whether there is an embedded der ivative to be separated and, if 
there is, how to account for that derivative.  
(b) separate from a host insurance contract an investment compo nent if, and only if, that investment 
component is distinct (see paragraphs B31–B32). The entity shall apply SLFRS 9 to account for 
the separated investment component unless it is an investment c ontract with discretionary 
participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17 (see paragraph 3(c)). 
12 After applying paragraph 11 to separate any cash flows relat ed to embedded derivatives and 
distinct investment components, an entity shall separate from t he host insurance contract any promise to 
transfer to a policyholder distinct goods or services other tha n insurance contract services, 
applying paragraph 7 of SLFRS 15. The entity shall account for such promises applying SLFRS 15. In 
applying paragraph 7 of SLFRS 15 to separate the promise, the entity shall apply paragraphs B33–B35 of 
SLFRS 17 and, on initial recognition, shall:  
(a) apply SLFRS 15 to attribute the cash inflows between the in surance component and any promises 
to provide distinct goods or services other than insurance contract services; and 
(b) attribute the cash outflows between the insurance component  and any promised goods or services 
other than insurance contract services, accounted for applying SLFRS 15 so that:  
(i) cash outflows that relate directly to each component are at tributed to that component; 
and 
(ii) any remaining cash outflows are attributed on a systematic  and rational basis, reflecting 
the cash outflows the entity would expect to arise if that comp onent were a separate 
contract. 
 
13 After applying paragraphs 11 –12, an entity shall apply SLFRS 17 to all remaining components of the host 
insurance contract. Hereafter, all references in SLFRS 17 to embedded derivatives refer to derivatives that 
have not been separated from the host insurance contract and al l references to investment components 
refer to investment components that have not been separated fro m the host insurance contract (except 
those references in paragraphs B31–B32). 
Level of aggregation of insurance contracts 
14 An entity shall identify portfolios of insurance contracts. A portfolio comprises contracts subject to 
similar risks and managed together. Contracts within a product line would be expected to have 
similar risks and hence would be expected to be in the same portfolio if they are managed together. 
Contracts in different product lines (for example single premiu m fixed annuities compared with 
regular term life assurance) would not be expected to have simi lar risks and hence would be 
expected to be in different portfolios. 
 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    5A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
15 Paragraphs 16–24 apply to insurance contracts issued. The requirements for the level of aggregation 
of reinsurance contracts held are set out in paragraph 61. 
16 An entity shall divide a portfolio of insurance contracts issued into a minimum of:  
(a) a group of contracts that are onerous at initial recognition, if any; 
(b) a group of contracts that at ini tial recognition have no signif icant possibility of becoming 
onerous subsequently, if any; and 
(c) a group of the remaining contracts in the portfolio, if any. 
17 If an entity has reasonable and supportable information to c onclude that a set of contracts will all be in the 
same group applying paragraph 16, it may measure the set of con tracts to determine if the contracts are 
onerous (see paragraph 47) and assess the set of contracts to determine if the contracts have no significant 
possibility of becoming onerous subsequently (see paragraph 19) . If the entity does not have reasonable 
and supportable information to conclude that a set of contracts  will all be in the same group, it shall 
determine the group to which contracts belong by considering individual contracts. 
18 For contracts issued to which an entity applies the premium allocation approach (see paragraphs 53 –59), 
the entity shall assume no contracts in the portfolio are onero us at initial recognition, unless facts and 
circumstances indicate otherwise. An entity shall assess whethe r contracts that are not onerous at initial 
recognition have no significant possibility of becoming onerous subsequently by assessing the likelihood 
of changes in applicable facts and circumstances. 
 
19 For contracts issued to which an entity does not apply the p remium allocation approach (see paragraphs 
53–54), an entity shall assess whether contracts that are not oner ous at initial recognition have no 
significant possibility of becoming onerous:  
(a) based on the likelihood of changes in assumptions which, if  they occurred, would result in the 
contracts becoming onerous. 
(b) using information about estimates provided by the entity’s inte rnal reporting. Hence, in 
assessing whether contracts that are not onerous at initial rec ognition have no significant 
possibility of becoming onerous:  
(i) an entity shall not disregard information provided by its i nternal reporting about the 
effect of changes in assumptions on different contracts on the possibility of their 
becoming onerous; but 
(ii) an entity is not required to gather additional information  beyond that provided by the 
entity’s internal reporting about the effect of changes in assu mptions on different 
contracts. 
20 If, applying paragraphs 14 –19, contracts within a portfolio would fall into different grou ps only because 
law or regulation specifically constrains the entity’s practica l ability to set a different price or level of 
benefits for policyholders with different characteristics, the entity may include those contracts in the same 
group. The entity shall not apply this paragraph by analogy to other items. 
21 An entity is permitted to subdivide the groups described in paragraph 16. For example, an entity may 
choose to divide the portfolios into:  
(a) more groups that are not onerous at initial recognition —if the entity’s internal reporting provides 
information that distinguishes:  
(i) different levels of profitability; or 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(ii) different possibilities of contracts becoming onerous after initial recognition; and 
(b) more than one group of contracts that are onerous at initia l recognition —if the entity’s internal 
reporting provides information at a more detailed level about t he extent to which the contracts are 
onerous. 
22 An entity shall not include contracts issued more than one year apart in the same group. To achieve 
this the entity shall, if necessary, further divide the groups described in paragraphs 16–21. 
23 A group of insurance contracts shall comprise a single contract if that is the result of applying paragraphs 
14–22. 
24 An entity shall apply the recognition and measurement requir ements of SLFRS 17 to the groups of 
contracts determined by applying paragraphs 14 –23. An entity shall establish the groups at initial 
recognition and add contracts to the groups applying paragraph 28. The entity shall not reassess the 
composition of the groups subsequently. To measure a group of c ontracts, an entity may estimate the 
fulfilment cash flows  at a higher level of aggregation than the group or portfolio, provided the entity is 
able to include the appropriate fulfilment cash flows in the me asurement of the group, applying 
paragraphs 32(a), 40(a)(i) and 40(b), by allocating such estimates to groups of contracts. 
Recognition 
25 An entity shall recognise a group of insurance contracts it issues from the earliest of the following:  
(a) the beginning of the coverage period of the group of contracts; 
(b) the date when the first payment from a policyholder in the group becomes due; and 
(c) for a group of onerous contracts, when the group becomes onerous. 
26 If there is no contractual due date, the first payment from the policyholder is deemed to be due when it is 
received. An entity is required to determine whether any contra cts form a group of onerous contracts 
applying paragraph 16 before the earlier of the dates set out i n paragraphs 25(a) and 25(b) if facts and 
circumstances indicate there is such a group. 
27 [Deleted] 
28 In recognising a group of insurance contracts in a reporting  period, an entity shall include only contracts 
that individually meet one of the criteria set out in paragraph 25 and shall make estimates for the discount 
rates at the date of initial recognition (see paragraph B73) and the coverage units provided in the reporting 
period (see paragraph B119). An entity may include more contrac ts in the group after the end of a 
reporting period, subject to paragraphs 14–22. An entity shall add a contract to the group in the reporting 
period in which that contract meets one of the criteria set out in paragraph 25. This may result in a change 
to the determination of the discount rates at the date of initi al recognition applying paragraph B73. An 
entity shall apply the revised rates from the start of the repo rting period in which the new contracts are 
added to the group. 
Insurance acquisition cash flows (paragraphs B35A‒B35D) 
28A An entity shall allocate insurance acquisition cash flows  to groups of insurance contracts using a 
systematic and rational method applying paragraphs B35A‒B35B, unless it chooses to recognise them 
as expenses applying paragraph 59(a). 
28B An entity not applying paragraph 59(a) shall recognise as a n asset insurance acquisition cash flows paid 
(or insurance acquisition cash flows for which a liability has been recognised applying another SLFRS 
Standard) before the related group of insurance contracts is re cognised. An entity shall recognise such 
an asset for each related group of insurance contracts. 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    7A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
28C An entity shall derecognise an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows when the insurance acquisition 
cash flows are included in the measurement of the related group  of insurance contracts applying 
paragraph 38(c)(i) or paragraph 55(a)(iii).
28D If paragraph 28 applies, an entity shall apply paragraphs 28B‒28C in accordance with paragraph B35C.
28E At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall assess the recoverability of an asset for insurance 
acquisition cash flows if facts and circumstances indicate the asset may be impaired (see paragraph 
B35D). If an entity identifies an impairment loss, the entity shall adjust the carrying amount of the asset 
and recognise the impairment loss in profit or loss.
28F An entity shall recognise in profit or loss a reversal of some or all ofan impairment loss previously
recognised applying paragraph 28E and increase the carrying amount of the asset, to the extent that the 
impairment conditions no longer exist or have improved. 
Measurement (paragraphs B36–B119F)
29 An entity shall apply paragraphs 30 –52 to all groups of insurance contracts within the scope of 
SLFRS 17, with the following exceptions:
(a) for groups of insurance contracts meeting either of the criteria specified in paragraph 53, an entity
may simplify the measurement of the group using the premium allocation approach in paragraphs
55–59.
(b) for groups of reinsurance contracts held, an entity shall app ly paragraphs 32–46 as required
by paragraphs 63–70A. Paragraph 45 (oninsurance contracts with direct participation features)
and paragraphs 47–52 (on onerous contracts) do not apply to groups of reinsurance contracts
held.
(c) for groups of investment contracts with discretionary partici pation features, an entity shall
apply paragraphs 32–52 as modified by paragraph 71.
30 When applying LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates to a group of insurance 
contracts that generate cash flows in a foreign currency, an en tity shall treat the group of contracts, 
including the contractual service margin, as a monetary item.
31 In the financial statements of an entity that issues insuranc e contracts, the fulfilment cash flows shall 
not reflect the non-performance risk of that entity (non-perfor mance risk is defined in SLFRS 13Fair
Value Measurement).
Measurement on initial recognition (paragraphs B36–B95F)
32 On initial recognition, an entity shall measure a group of in surance contracts at the total of: 
(a) the fulfilment cash flows, which comprise:
(i) estimates of future cash flows (paragraphs 33–35);
(ii) an adjustment to reflect the time value of money and the financial risks related to
the future cash flows, to the extent that the financial risks a re not included in the
estimates of the future cash flows (paragraph 36); and
(iii) a risk adjustment for non-financial risk (paragraph 37).
(b) the contractual service margin, measured applying paragraphs  38–39.

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
Estimates of future cash flows (paragraphs B36–B71)
33 An entity shall include in the measurement of a group of insu rance contracts all the future cash 
flows within the boundary of each contract in the group (see pa ragraph 34). Applying 
paragraph 24, an entity may estimate the future cash flows at a higher level of aggregation and 
then allocate the resulting fulfilment cash flows to individual  groups of contracts. The estimates 
of future cash flows shall: 
(a) incorporate, in an unbiased w ay, all reasonable and supporta ble information available
without undue cost or effort about the amount, timing and uncertainty of those future cash
flows (see paragraphs B37 –B41). To do this, an entity shall estimate the expected value
(ie the probability-weighted mean) of the full range of possible outcomes.
(b) reflect the perspective of the entity, provided that the est imates of any relevant market
variables are consistent with observable market prices for those variables (see paragraphs
B42–B53).
(c) be current —the estimates shall reflect conditions existing at the measurem ent date,
including assumptions at that date about the future (see paragraphs B54–B60).
(d) be explicit —the entity shall estimate the adjustment for non-financial risk separately from
the other estimates (see paragraph B90). The entity also shall e stimate the cash flows
separately from the adjustment for the time value of money and financial risk, unless the
most appropriate measurement technique combines these estimates (see paragraph B46).
34 Cash flows are within the boundary of an insurance contract i f they arise from substantive rights and 
obligations that exist during the reporting period in which the entity can compel the policyholder to pay 
the premiums or in which the entity has a substantive obligatio n to provide the policyholder with 
insurance contract services (see paragraphs B61 –B71). A substantive obligation to provide insurance 
contract services ends when: 
(a) the entity has the practical ability to reassess the risks o f the particular policyholder and, as a
result, can set a price or level of benefits that fully reflects those risks; or
(b) both of the following criteria are satisfied:
(i) the entity has the practical ability to reassess the risks o f the portfolio of insurance
contracts that contains the contract and, as a result, can set a price or level of benefits
that fully reflects the risk of that portfolio; and
(ii) the pricing of the premiums up to the date when the risks a re reassessed does not take
into account the risks that relate to periods after the reassessment date.
35 An entity shall not recognise as a liability or as an asset any amounts relating to expected premiums or 
expected claims outside the boundary of the insurance contract. Such amounts relate to future insurance 
contracts.
Discount rates (paragraphs B72–B85)
36 An entity shall adjust the estimates of future cash flows to reflect the time value of money and the 
financial risks related to those cash flows, to the extent that the financial risks are not included in 
the estimates of cash flows. The discount rates applied to the estimates of the future cash flows 
described in paragraph 33 shall:
(a) reflect the time value of money, the characteristics of the c as h  f l ows  an d  t h e  li q u id i t y
characteristics of the insurance contracts;

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    9A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
(b) be consistent with observable current market prices (if any)  for financial instruments with
cash flows whose characteristics  are consistent with those of t he insurance contracts, in
terms of, for example, timing, currency and liquidity; and
(c) exclude the effect of factors  that influence such observable market prices but do not affect
the future cash flows of the insurance contracts.
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk (paragraphs B86–B92)
37 An entity shall adjust the estimate of the present value of t he future cash flows to reflect the 
compensation that the entity req uires for bearing the uncertain ty about the amount and timing 
of the cash flows that arises from non-financial risk. 
Contractual service margin
38 The contractual service margin  is a component of the asset or liability for the group of insurance 
contracts that represents the unearned profit the entity will r ecognise as it provides insurance 
contract services in the future. An entity shall measure the co ntractual service margin on initial 
recognition of a group of insurance contracts at an amount that, unless paragraph 47 (on onerous 
contracts) or paragraph B123A (on insurance revenue relating to  paragraph 38(c)(ii)) applies, 
results in no income or expenses arising from: 
(a) the initial recognition of an amount for the fulfilment cash  flows, measured by applying
paragraphs 32–37;
(b) any cash flows arising from t he contracts in the group at that date;
(c) the derecognition at the date of initial recognition of:
(i) any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows applying para graph 28C; and
(ii) any other asset or liability previously recognised for cash  flows related to the
group of contracts as specified in paragraph B66A.
39 For insurance contracts acquired in a transfer of insurance contracts or in a business combination within 
the scope of SLFRS 3, an entity shall apply paragraph 38 in accordance with paragraphs B93–B95F.
Subsequent measurement
40 The carrying amount of a group of insurance contracts at the end of each reporting period shall 
be the sum of: 
(a) the liability for remaining coverage comprising:
(i) the fulfilment cash flows related to future service allocate d to the group at that
date, measured applying paragraphs 33–37 and B36–B92;
(ii) the contractual service margin of the group at that date, m easured applying
paragraphs 43–46; and
(b) the liability for incurred claims, comprising the fulfilment cash flows related to past service
allocated to the group at that date, measured applying paragraphs 33–37 and B36–B92.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
41 An entity shall recognise income and expenses for the followi ng changes in the carrying amount 
of the liability for remaining coverage: 
(a) insurance revenue —for the reduction in the liabili t y f o r  r em ai n in g  c ove r age  b e c ause of
services provided in the period, measured applying paragraphs B120–B124;
(b) insurance service expenses —for losses on groups of onerous contracts, and reversals of
such losses (see paragraphs 47–52); and
(c) insurance finance income or expenses —for the effect of the time value of money and the
effect of financial risk as specified in paragraph 87.
42 An entity shall recognise income and expenses for the followi ng changes in the carrying amount 
of the liability for incurred claims: 
(a) insurance service expenses —for the increase in the liability because of claims and expenses
incurred in the period, excluding any investment components;
(b) insurance service expenses —for any subsequent changes in fulfilment cash flows relating
to incurred claims and incurred expenses; and
(c) insurance finance income or expenses —for the effect of the time value of money and the
effect of financial risk as specified in paragraph 87.
Contractual service margin (paragraphs B96–B119B)
43 The contractual service margin at the end of the reporting pe riod represents the profit in the 
group of insurance contracts that has not yet been recognised i n profit or loss because it relates 
to the future service to be provided under the contracts in the group.
44 For insurance contracts without direct participation features , the carrying amount of the contractual 
service margin of a group of contracts at the end of the reporting period equals the carrying amount at 
the start of the reporting period adjusted for:
(a) the effect of any new contracts added to the group (see parag raph 28);
(b) interest accreted on the carrying amount of the contractual service margin during the reporting
period, measured at the discount rates specified in paragraph B72(b);
(c) the changes in fulfilment cash flows relating to future service as specified in paragraphs B96–
B100, except to the extent that:
(i) such increases in the fulfilment cash flows exceed the carry ing amount of the
contractual service margin, giving rise to a loss (see paragraph 48(a)); or
(ii) such decreases in the fulfilment cash flows are allocated t o the loss component of
the liability for remaining coverage applying paragraph 50(b).
(d) the effect of any currency exchange differences on the contr actual service margin; and
(e) the amount recognised as insurance revenue because of the tra nsfer of insurance contract
services in the period, determined by the allocation of the contractual service margin remaining
at the end of the reporting period (before any allocation) over  the current and
remaining coverage period applying paragraph B119.
45 For insurance contracts with direct participation features (s ee paragraphs B101 –B118), the carrying 
amount of the contractual service margin of a group of contracts at the end of the reporting period equals 
the carrying amount at the start of the reporting period adjust ed for the amounts specified in 
subparagraphs (a)–(e) below. An entity is not required to identify these adjustments separately. Instead, 
a combined amount may be determined for some, or all, of the adjustments. The adjustments are: 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    11A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
D the effect of any new contracts added to the group (see paragraph 28);
E the change in the amount of the entity’s share of the fair valu e of the underlying items
(seeparagraph B104(b)(i)), except to the extent that:
L paragraph B115 (on risk mitigation) applies;
LL the decrease in the amount of the entity’s share of the fair va lue of the underlying 
items exceeds the carrying amount of the contractual service margin, giving rise to a
loss (see paragraph 48); or
LLL the increase in the amount of the entity’s share of the fair value o f the underlying 
items reverses the amount in (ii).
F the changes in fulfilment cash flows relating to future service, as specified in paragraphs B101–
B118, except to the extent that:
L paragraph B115 (on risk mitigation) applies;
LL such increases in the fulfilment cash flows exceed the carrying  amount of the 
contractual service margin, giving rise to a loss (see paragraph 48); or
LLL such decreases in the fulfilment cash flows are allocated to the loss component of the
liability for remaining coverage applying paragraph 50(b).
G the effect of any currency exchange differences arising on the contractual service margin; and
H the amount recognised as insurance revenue because of the transf er of insurance contract 
services in the period, determined by the allocation of the contractual service margin remaining
at the end of the reporting period (before any allocation) over the current and remaining 
coverage period applying paragraph B119. 
46 Some changes in the contractual service margin offset changes  in the fulfilment cash flows for the 
liability for remaining coverage, resulting in no change in the  total carrying amount of the liability for 
remaining coverage. To the extent that changes in the contractual service margin do not offset changes 
in the fulfilment cash flows for the liability for remaining co verage, an entity shall recognise income 
and expenses for the changes, applying paragraph 41.
Onerous contracts
47 An insurance contract is onerous at the date of initial recog nition if the fulfilment cash flows allocated 
to the contract, any previously recognised insurance acquisitio n cash flows and any cash flows arising 
from the contract at the date of initial recognition in total are a net outflow. Applying paragraph 16(a), 
an entity shall group such contracts separately from contracts that are not onerous. To the extent that 
paragraph 17 applies, an entity may identify the group of onerou s contracts by measuring a set of 
contracts rather than individual contracts. An entity shall rec ognise a loss in profit or loss for the net 
outflow for the group of onerous contracts, resulting in the carrying amount of the liability for the group 
being equal to the fulfilment cash flows and the contractual service margin of the group being zero.
48 A group of insurance contracts becomes onerous (or more onero us) on subsequent measurement if the 
following amounts exceed the carrying amount of the contractual service margin: 
(a) unfavourable changes relating to future service in the fulfil ment cash flows allocated to the
group arising from changes in estimates of future cash flows an d the risk adjustment for non-
financial risk; and

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
(b) for a group of insurance contracts with direct participation  features, the decrease in the amount
of the entity’s share of the fair value of the underlying items.
Applying paragraphs 44(c)(i), 45(b)(ii) and 45(c)(ii), an entity shall recognise a loss in profit or loss to 
the extent of that excess.
49 An entity shall establish (or increase) a loss component of t he liability for remaining coverage for an 
onerous group depicting the losses recognised applying paragrap hs 47 –48. The loss component 
determines the amounts that are presented in profit or loss as reversals of losses on onerous groups and 
are consequently excluded from the determination of insurance revenue.
50 After an entity has recognised a loss on an onerous group of insurance contracts, it shall allocate: 
(a) the subsequent changes in fulfilment cash flows of the liabi lity for remaining coverage specified
in paragraph 51 on a systematic basis between:
(i) the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage; and
(ii) the liability for remaining coverage, excluding the loss co mponent.
(b) solely to the loss component until that component is reduced  to zero:
(i) any subsequent decrease relating to future service in fulfil ment cash flows allocated
to the group arising from changes in estimates of future cash f l o w s  a n d  t h e  r i s k
adjustment for non-financial risk; and
(ii) any subsequent increases in the amount of the entity’s share of  the fair value of the
underlying items.
Applying paragraphs 44(c)(ii), 45(b)(iii) and 45(c)(iii), an entity shall adjust the contractual service 
margin only for the excess of the decrease over the amount allocated to the loss component.
51 The subsequent changes in the fulfilment cash flows of the li ability for remaining coverage to be 
allocated applying paragraph 50(a) are: 
(a) estimates of the present value of future cash flows for clai ms and expenses released from the
liability for remaining coverage because of incurred insurance service expenses;
(b) changes in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk recogn ised in profit or loss because of the
release from risk; and
(c) insurance finance income or expenses.
52 The systematic allocation required by paragraph 50(a) shall re sult in the total amounts allocated to the 
loss component in accordance with paragraphs 48 –50 being equal to zero by the end of the coverage 
period of a group of contracts.
Premium allocation approach
53 An entity may simplify the measurement of a group of insuranc e contracts using the premium allocation 
approach set out in paragraphs 55–59 if, and only if, at the inception of the group: 
(a) the entity reasonably expects that such simplification would  produce a measurement of the
liability for remaining coverage for the group that would not differ materially from the one that
would be produced applying the requirements in paragraphs 32–52; or
(b) the coverage period of each contract in the group (including  insurance contract services arising
from all premiums within the contract boundary determined at that date applying paragraph 34)
is one year or less.
54 The criterion in paragraph 53(a) is not met if at the inception of the group an entity expects significant 
variability in the fulfilment cash flows that would affect the measurement of the liability for remaining 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    13A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
coverage during the period before a claim is incurred. Variability in the fulfilment cash flows increases 
with, for example:  
(a) the extent of future cash flows relating to any derivatives  embedded in the contracts; and 
(b) the length of the coverage period of the group of contracts . 
55 Using the premium allocation approach, an entity shall measu re the liability for remaining coverage as 
follows:  
(a) on initial recognition, the carrying amount of the liabilit y is:  
(i) the premiums, if any, received at initial recognition; 
(ii) minus any insurance acquisition cash flows at that date, u nless the entity chooses to 
recognise the payments as an expense applying paragraph 59(a); and 
(iii) plus or minus any amount arising from the derecognition a t that date of: 
1. any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows applying para graph 28C; and 
2. any other asset or liability pr eviously recognised for cash flows related to the 
group of contracts as specified in paragraph B66A. 
(b) at the end of each subsequent reporting period, the carryin g amount of the liability is the 
carrying amount at the start of the reporting period:  
(i) plus the premiums received in the period; 
(ii) minus insurance acquisition cash flows; unless the entity chooses to recognise the 
payments as an expense applying paragraph 59(a); 
(iii) plus any amounts relating to the amortisation of insuranc e acquisition cash flows 
recognised as an expense in the reporting period; unless the en tity chooses to 
recognise insurance acquisition cash flows as an expense applying paragraph 59(a); 
(iv) plus any adjustment to a financing component, applying par agraph 56; 
(v) minus the amount recognised as insurance revenue for servic es provided in that 
period (see paragraph B126); and 
(vi) minus any investment component paid or transferred to the liability for incurred 
claims. 
56 If insurance contracts in the group have a significant finan cing component, an entity shall adjust the 
carrying amount of the liability for remaining coverage to reflect the time value of money and the effect 
of financial risk using the discount rates specified in paragraph 36, as determined on initial recognition. 
The entity is not required to adjust the carrying amount of the liability for remaining coverage to reflect 
the time value of money and the effect of financial risk if, at  initial recognition, the entity expects that 
the time between providing each part of the services and the re lated premium due date is no more than 
a year.  
57 If at any time during the coverage period, facts and circums tances indicate that a group of insurance 
contracts is onerous, an entity shall calculate the difference between:  
(a) the carrying amount of the liability for remaining coverage  determined applying paragraph 55; 
and 
(b) the fulfilment cash flows that relate to remaining coverage  of the group, applying paragraphs 33–
37 and B36–B92. However, if, in applying paragraph 59(b), the entity does not adjust the liability 

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
for incurred claims for the time value of money and the effect of financial risk, it shall not include 
in the fulfilment cash flows any such adjustment. 
58 To the extent that the fulfilment cash flows described in pa ragraph 57(b) exceed the carrying amount 
described in paragraph 57(a), the entity shall recognise a loss in profit or loss and increase the liability 
for remaining coverage. 
59 In applying the premium allocation approach, an entity:  
(a) may choose to recognise any insurance acquisition cash flow s as expenses when it incurs those 
costs, provided that the coverage period of each contract in th e group at initial recognition is no 
more than one year. 
(b) shall measure the liability for incurred claims for the gro up of insurance contracts at the 
fulfilment cash flows relating to incurred claims, applying par agraphs 33 –37 and B36 –B92. 
However, the entity is not required to adjust future cash flows  for the time value of money and 
the effect of financial risk if those cash flows are expected t o be paid or received in one year or 
less from the date the claims are incurred. 
 
Reinsurance contracts held 
60 The requirements in SLFRS 17 are modified for reinsurance co ntracts held, as set out in paragraphs 61–
70A. 
61 An entity shall divide portfolios of reinsurance contracts h eld applying paragraphs 14 –24, except that 
the references to onerous contracts in those paragraphs shall b e replaced with a reference to contracts 
on which there is a net gain on initial recognition. For some r einsurance contracts held, applying 
paragraphs 14–24 will result in a group that comprises a single contract. 
Recognition 
62 Instead of applying paragraph 25, an entity shall recognise a group of reinsurance contracts held from 
the earlier of the following: 
(a) the beginning of the coverage period of the group of reinsu rance contracts held; and 
(b) the date the entity recognises an onerous group of underlyi ng insurance contracts applying 
paragraph 25(c), if the entity entered into the related reinsurance contract held in the group of 
reinsurance contracts held at or before that date. 
62A Notwithstanding paragraph 6 2(a), an entity shall delay the recognition of a group of reinsurance 
contracts held that provide proportionate coverage until the date that any underlying insurance contract 
is initially recognised, if that date is later than the beginni ng of the coverage period of the group of 
reinsurance contracts held. 
Measurement 
63 In applying the measurement requirements of paragraphs 32 –36 to reinsurance contracts held, to the 
extent that the underlying contracts are also measured applying  those paragraphs, the entity shall use 
consistent assumptions to measure the estimates of the present value of the future cash flows for the 
group of reinsurance contracts held and the estimates of the pr esent value of the future cash flows for 
the group(s) of underlying insurance contracts. In addition, th e entity shall include in the estimates of 
the present value of the future cash flows for the group of rei nsurance contracts held the effect of any 
risk of non-performance by the issuer of the reinsurance contract, including the effects of collateral and 
losses from disputes. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    15A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
64 Instead of applying paragraph 37, an entity shall determine the risk adjustment for non-financial risk so 
that it represents the amount of risk being transferred by the holder of the group of reinsurance contracts 
to the issuer of those contracts. 
65 The requirements of paragraph 38 that relate to determining the contractual service margin on initial 
recognition are modified to reflect the fact that for a group o f reinsurance contracts held there is no 
unearned profit but instead a net cost or net gain on purchasing the reinsurance. Hence, unless paragraph 
65A applies, on initial recognition the entity shall recognise any net cost or net gain on purchasing the 
group of reinsurance contracts held as a contractual service margin measured at an amount equal to the 
sum of: 
(a) the fulfilment cash flows; 
(b) the amount derecognised at that date of any asset or liabil ity previously recognised for cash 
flows related to the group of reinsurance contracts held; 
(c) and any cash flows arising at that date; and 
(d) any income recognised in profit or loss applying paragraph 66A. 
65A If the net cost of purchasing reinsurance coverage relates to events that occurred before the purchase of 
the group of reinsurance contracts held, notwithstanding the re quirements of paragraph B5, the entity 
shall recognise such a cost immediately in profit or loss as an expense.  
66 Instead of applying paragraph 44, an entity shall measure th e contractual service margin at the end of 
the reporting period for a group of reinsurance contracts held as the carrying amount determined at the 
start of the reporting period, adjusted for:  
(a) the effect of any new contracts added to the group (see par agraph 28); 
(b) interest accreted on the carrying amount of the contractual  service margin, measured at the 
discount rates specified in paragraph B72(b); 
(ba) income recognised in profit or loss in the reporting period applying paragraph 66A; 
(bb) reversals of a loss-recover y component recognised applying  paragraph 66B (see paragraph 
B119F) to the extent those reversals are not changes in the ful filment cash flows of the group 
of reinsurance contracts held; 
(c) changes in the fulfilment cash flows, measured at the disco unt rates specified in paragraph 
B72(c), to the extent that the change relates to future service, unless: 
(i) the change results from a change in fulfilment cash flows a llocated to a group of 
underlying insurance contracts that does not adjust the contractual service margin for 
the group of underlying insurance contracts; or 
(ii) the change results from applying paragraphs 57‒58 (on onerous c ontracts), if the 
entity measures a group of underlying insurance contracts apply ing the premium 
allocation approach. 
(d) the effect of any currency exchange differences arising on the contractual service margin; and 
(e) the amount recognised in profit or loss because of services  received in the period, determined 
by the allocation of the contractual service margin remaining at the end of the reporting period 
(before any allocation) over the current and remaining coverage  period of the group of 
reinsurance contracts held, applying paragraph B119.  

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
66A An entity shall adjust the contractual service margin of a group of reinsurance contracts held, and as a 
result recognise income, when the entity recognises a loss on initial recognition of an onerous group of 
underlying insurance contracts or on addition of onerous underlying insurance contracts to a group (see 
paragraphs B119C‒B119E). 
66B An entity shall establish (or adjust) a loss-recovery compo nent of the asset for remaining coverage for 
a group of reinsurance contracts held depicting the recovery of  losses recognised applying paragraphs 
66(c)(i)‒(ii) and 66A. The loss-recovery component determines the amounts that are presented in profit 
or loss as reversals of recover ies of losses from reinsurance c ontracts held and are consequently 
excluded from the allocation of premiums paid to the reinsurer (see paragraph B119F). 
67 Changes in the fulfilment cash flows that result from change s in the risk of non-performance by the 
issuer of a reinsurance contract held do not relate to future s ervice and shall not adjust the contractual 
service margin. 
68 Reinsurance contracts held cannot be onerous. Accordingly, t he requirements of paragraphs 47 –52 do 
not apply. 
 
Premium allocation approach for reinsurance contracts held 
69 An entity may use the premium allocation approach set out in  paragraphs 55 –56 and 59 (adapted to 
reflect the features of reinsurance contracts held that differ from insurance contracts issued, for example 
the generation of expenses or red uction in expenses rather than  revenue) to simplify the measurement 
of a group of reinsurance contracts held, if at the inception of the group: 
(a) the entity reasonably expects the resulting measurement wou ld not differ materially from the 
result of applying the requirements in paragraphs 63–68; or 
(b) the coverage period of each contract in the group of reinsu rance contracts held (including 
insurance coverage from all premiums within the contract bounda ry determined at that date 
applying paragraph 34) is one year or less. 
70 An entity cannot meet the condition in paragraph 69(a) if, a t the inception of the group, an entity expects 
significant variability in the fulfilment cash flows that would  affect the measurement of the asset for 
remaining coverage during the period before a claim is incurred. Variability in the fulfilment cash flows 
increases with, for example:  
(a) the extent of future cash flows relating to any derivatives  embedded in the contracts; and 
(b) the length of the coverage period of the group of reinsuran ce contracts held. 
70A If an entity measures a group of reinsurance contracts held  applying the premium allocation approach, 
the entity shall apply paragraph 66A by adjusting the carrying amount of the asset for remaining 
coverage instead of adjusting the contractual service margin. 
 
Investment contracts with discretionary participation features 
71 An investment contract with discretionary participation feat ures does not include a transfer of 
significant insurance risk. Consequently, the requirements in S LFRS 17 for insurance contracts are 
modified for investment contracts with discretionary participation features as follows:  
(a) the date of initial recognition (see paragraphs 25 and 28) is the date the entity becomes party 
to the contract. 
(b) the contract boundary (see paragraph 34) is modified so tha t cash flows are within the contract 
boundary if they result from a substantive obligation of the en tity to deliver cash at a present 
or future date. The entity has no substantive obligation to del iver cash if it has the practical 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    17A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
ability to set a price for the promise to deliver the cash that  fully reflects the amount of cash 
promised and related risks. 
(c) the allocation of the contractual service margin (see parag raphs 44(e) and 45(e)) is modified 
so that the entity shall recognise the contractual service margin over the duration of the group 
of contracts in a systematic way that reflects the transfer of investment services under the 
contract. 
 
Modification and derecognition  
Modification of an insurance contract 
72 If the terms of an insurance contract are modified, for exam ple by agreement between the parties to the 
contract or by a change in regulation, an entity shall derecogn ise the original contract and recognise the 
modified contract as a new contract, applying SLFRS 17 or other applicable Standards if, and only if, any 
of the conditions in (a)–(c) are satisfied. The exercise of a right included in the term s of a contract is not 
a modification. The conditions are that: 
(a) if the modified terms had been included at contract incepti on:  
(i) the modified contract would have been excluded from the sco pe of SLFRS 17, applying 
paragraphs 3–8A; 
(ii) an entity would have separated different components from t he host insurance contract 
applying paragraphs 10 –13, resulting in a different insurance contract to which 
SLFRS 17 would have applied; 
(iii) the modified contract would have had a substantially diff erent contract boundary 
applying paragraph 34; or 
(iv) the modified contract would have been included in a differ ent group of contracts 
applying paragraphs 14–24. 
(b) the original contract met the definition of an insurance contract with  direct participation 
features, but the modified contract no longer meets that definition, or vice versa; or 
(c) the entity applied the premium allocation approach in parag raphs 53–59 or paragraphs 69–70 to 
the original contract, but the modifications mean that the contract no longer meets the eligibility 
criteria for that approach in paragraph 53 or paragraph 69. 
 
73 If a contract modification meets none of the conditions in p aragraph 72, the entity shall treat changes in 
cash flows caused by the modification as changes in estimates o f fulfilment cash flows by applying 
paragraphs 40–52. 
 
Derecognition 
74 An entity shall derecognise an insurance contract when, and only when:  
(a) it is extinguished, ie when the obligation specified in the ins urance contract expires or is 
discharged or cancelled; or 
(b) any of the conditions in paragraph 72 are met. 

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
75 When an insurance contract is extinguished, the entity is no l onger at risk and is therefore no longer 
required to transfer any economic resources to satisfy the insurance contract. For example, when an entity 
buys reinsurance, it shall derecognise the underlying insurance  contract(s) when, and only when, the 
underlying insurance contract(s) is or are extinguished.
76 An entity derecognises an insurance contract from within a group of contracts by applying the following 
requirements in SLFRS 17: 
(a) the fulfilment cash flows allocated to the group are adjuste d to eliminate the present value of the
future cash flows and risk adjustment for non-financial risk relating to the rights and obligations
that have been derecognised from the group, applying paragraphs 40(a)(i) and 40(b);
(b) the contractual service margin of the group is adjusted for the change in fulfilment cash flows
described in (a), to the extent required by paragraphs 44(c) and  45(c), unless paragraph 77
applies; and
(c) the number of coverage units for expected remaining insuranc e contract services is adjusted to
reflect the coverage units derecognised from the group, and the amount of the contractual service
margin recognised in profit or loss in the period is based on t hat adjusted number applying
paragraph B119.
77 When an entity derecognises an insurance contract because it transfers the contract to a third party or 
derecognises an insurance contract and recognises a new contrac t applying paragraph 72, the entity shall 
instead of applying paragraph 76(b): 
(a) adjust the contractual service margin of the group from whic h the contract has been derecognised,
to the extent required by paragraphs 44(c) and 45(c), for the difference between (i) and either (ii)
for contracts transferred to a third party or (iii) for contracts derecognised applying paragraph 72:
(i) the change in the carrying amount of the group of insurance contracts resulting from the
derecognition of the contract, applying paragraph 76(a).
(ii) the premium charged by the third party.
(iii) the premium the entity would have charged had it entered i nto a contract with equivalent
terms as the new contract at the date of the contract modificat ion, less any additional
premium charged for the modification.
(b) measure the new contract recognised applying paragraph 72 ass uming that the entity received
the premium described in (a)(iii) at the date of the modification.
Presentation in the statement of financial position
78 An entity shall present separately in the statement of financ ial position the carrying amount of 
portfolios of:
(a) insurance contracts issued that are assets;
(b) insurance contracts issued that are liabilities;
(c) reinsurance contracts h eld that are assets; and
(d) reinsurance contracts held that are liabilities.
79 An entity shall include any assets for insurance acquisition cash flows recognised applying paragraph 28B 
in the carrying amount of the related portfolios of insurance c ontracts issued, and any assets or liabilities 
for cash flows related to portfolios of reinsurance contracts h eld (see paragraph 65(b)) in the carrying 
amount of the portfolios of reinsurance contracts held.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    19A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Recognition and presentation in the statement(s) of financial performance (paragraphs 
B120–B136) 
 
80 Applying paragraphs 41 and 42, an entity shall disaggregate the  amounts recognised in the 
statement(s) of profit or loss and other comprehensive income ( hereafter referred to as the 
statement(s) of financial performance) into:  
(a) an insurance service result (paragraphs 83 –86), comprising insurance revenue and 
insurance service expenses; and 
(b) insurance finance income or expenses (paragraphs 87–92). 
81 An entity is not required to disaggregate the change in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk between 
the insurance service result and insurance finance income or ex penses. If an entity does not make such a 
disaggregation, it shall include the entire change in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk as part of the 
insurance service result. 
82 An entity shall present income or expenses from reinsurance con tracts held separately from the 
expenses or income from insurance contracts issued. 
 
Insurance service result 
83 An entity shall present in profit or loss insurance revenue ari sing from the groups of insurance 
contracts issued. Insurance revenue shall depict the provision of services arising from the group of 
insurance contracts at an amount that reflects the consideratio n to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those services. Paragraphs B120 –B127 specify how an entity measures 
insurance revenue. 
 
84 An entity shall present in profit or loss insurance service expenses arising from a group of insurance 
contracts issued, comprising incurred claims (excluding repayme nts of investment components), 
other incurred insurance service expenses and other amounts as described in paragraph 103(b). 
85 Insurance revenue and insurance service expenses presented in p rofit or loss shall exclude any 
investment components. An entity shall not present premium info rmation in profit or loss if that 
information is inconsistent with paragraph 83. 
86 An entity may present the income or expenses from a group of  reinsurance contracts held (see paragraphs 
60–70A), other than insurance finance income or expenses, as a single amount; or the entity may present 
separately the amounts recovered from the reinsurer and an allocation of the premiums paid that together 
give a net amount equal to that single amount. If an entity presents separately the amounts recovered from 
the reinsurer and an allocation of the premiums paid, it shall:  
(a) treat reinsurance cash flows that are contingent on claims on the underlying contracts as part of 
the claims that are expected to be reimbursed under the reinsurance contract held; 
(b) treat amounts from the reinsurer that it expects to receive  that are not contingent on claims of the 
underlying contracts (for example, some types of ceding commiss ions) as a reduction in the 
premiums to be paid to the reinsurer; 
(ba) treat amounts recognised relating to recovery of losses applyin g paragraphs 66(c)(i)‒(ii) and 
66A‒66B as amounts recovered from the reinsurer; and 
(c) not present the allocation of  premiums paid as a reduction in revenue. 
 

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
Insurance finance income or expenses (see paragraphs B128–B136)
87 Insurance finance income or expenses comprises the change in the carrying amount of the group of 
insurance contracts arising from: 
(a) the effect of the time value of money and changes in the tim e value of money; and
(b) the effect of financial risk a nd changes in financial risk; but
(c) excluding any such changes for groups of insurance contracts with direct participation
features that would adjust the contractual service margin but d o not do so when applying
paragraphs 45(b)(ii), 45(b)(iii), 45(c)(ii) or 45(c)(iii). Thes e are included in insurance service
expenses.
87A An entity shall apply:
(a) paragraph B117A to insurance finance income or expenses aris ing from the application of
paragraph B115 (risk mitigation); and
(b) paragraphs 88 and 89 to all ot her insurance finance income or expenses.
88 In applying paragraph 87A(b), u nless paragraph 89 applies, an entity shall make an accounting 
policy choice between: 
(a) including insurance finance income or expenses for the period in profit or loss; or
(b) disaggregating insurance finance income or expenses for the period to include in profit or
loss an amount determined by a systematic allocation of the exp ected total insurance
finance income or expenses over the duration of the group of co ntracts, applying
paragraphs B130–B133.
89 In applying paragraph 87A(b), for insurance contracts with di rect participation features, for 
which the entity holds the underlying items, an entity shall ma ke an accounting policy choice 
between: 
(a) including insurance finance income or expenses for the period in profit or loss; or
(b) disaggregating insurance finance income or expenses for the period to include in profit or
loss an amount that eliminates accounting mismatches with income or expenses included in
profit or loss on the underlying items held, applying paragraphs B134–B136.
90 If an entity chooses the accounting policy set out in paragra ph 88(b) or in paragraph 89(b), it shall 
include in other comprehensive income the difference between th e insurance finance income or 
expenses measured on the basis set out in those paragraphs and the total insurance finance income 
or expenses for the period.
91 If an entity transfers a group of insurance contracts or dere cognises an insurance contract 
applying paragraph 77:
(a) it shall reclassify to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1  Presentation
of Financial Statements ) any remaining amounts for the group (or contract) that were
previously recognised in other comprehensive income because the  entity chose the
accounting policy set out in paragraph 88(b).
(b) it shall not reclassify to profit or loss as a reclassificat ion adjustment (see LKAS 1) any
remaining amounts for the group (or contract) that were previou sly recognised in other
comprehensive income because the entity chose the accounting policy set out in paragraph
89(b).
92 Paragraph 30 requires an entity to treat an insurance contract  as a monetary item under LKAS 21 for 
the purpose of translating foreign exchange items into the enti ty’s functional currency. An entity 
includes exchange differences on changes in the carrying amount  of groups of insurance contracts in 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    21A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
the statement of profit or loss, unless they relate to changes in the carrying amount of groups of 
insurance contracts included in other comprehensive income applying paragraph 90, in which case they 
shall be included in other comprehensive income. 
Disclosure
93 The objective of the disclosure requirements is for an entity  to disclose information in the notes 
that, together with the informati on provided in the statement o f financial position, statement(s) 
of financial performance and statement of cash flows, gives a b asis for users of financial 
statements to assess the effect that contracts within the scope  of SLFRS 17 have on the entity’s 
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. To achieve that objective, an entity shall 
disclose qualitative and quantitative information about:
(a) the amounts recognised in its financial statements for contr acts within the scope of
SLFRS 17 (see paragraphs 97–116);
(b) the significant judgements, and changes in those judgements,  made when applying
SLFRS 17 (see paragraphs 117–120); and
(c) the nature and extent of the risks from contracts within the  s c o p e  o f  S L F R S1 7
(see paragraphs 121–132).
94 An entity shall consider the level of detail necessary to sati sfy the disclosure objective and how much 
emphasis to place on each of the various requirements. If the disclosures provided, applying paragraphs 
97–132, are not enough to meet the objective in paragraph 93, an en tity shall disclose additional 
information necessary to meet that objective.
95 An entity shall aggregate or disaggregate information so that  useful information is not obscured either 
by the inclusion of a large amount of insignificant detail or b y the aggregation of items that have 
different characteristics.
96 Paragraphs 29 –31 of LKAS 1 set out requirements relating to materiality and agg regation of 
information. Examples of aggregation bases that might be approp riate for information disclosed 
about insurance contracts are:
(a) type of contract (for example, major product lines);
(b) geographical area (for example, country or region); or
(c) reportable segment, as defined in SLFRS 8Operating Segments.
97
Explanation of recognised amounts
Of the disclosures required by paragraphs 98 –109A, only those in paragraphs 98 –100, 102 –103, 
105‒105B and 109A apply to contracts to which the premium allocatio n approach has been applied. If 
an entity uses the premium allocation approach, it shall also disclose:
(a) which of the criteria in paragraphs 53 and 69 it has satisfied;
(b) whether it makes an adjustment for the time value of money a nd the effect of financial
risk applying paragraphs 56, 57(b) and 59(b); and
(c) the method it has chosen to recognise insurance acquisition cash
flows applying paragraph 59(a).

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
98 An entity shall disclose reconciliations that show how the ne t carrying amounts of contracts within the 
scope of SLFRS 17 changed during the period because of cash flow s and income and expenses 
recognised in the statement(s) of financial performance. Separate reconciliations shall be disclosed for 
insurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts held. An e ntity shall adapt the requirements of 
paragraphs 100–109 to reflect the features of reinsurance contracts held that differ from insurance 
contracts issued; for example, the generation of expenses or reduction in expenses rather than revenue.
99 An entity shall provide enough information in the reconciliat ions to enable users of financial statements 
to identify changes from cash flows and amounts that are recogn ised in the statement(s) of financial 
performance. To comply with this requirement, an entity shall:
(a) disclose, in a table, the r econciliations set out in paragraphs 100–105B; and
(b) for each reconciliation, present the net carrying amounts at the beginning and at the end of the
period, disaggregated into a total for portfolios of contracts that are assets and a total for
portfolios of contracts that are liabilities, that equal the am ounts presented in the statement of
financial position applying paragraph 78.
100 An entity shall disclose reconciliations from the opening to the closing balances separately for each of:
(a) the net liabilities (or assets) for the remaining coverage c omponent, excluding any loss
component.
(b) any loss component (see paragraphs 47–52 and 57–58).
(c) the liabilities for incurred claims. For insurance contracts t o which the premium allocation
approach described in paragraphs 53–59 or 69–70A has been applied, an entity shall disclose
separate reconciliations for:
(i) the estimates of the present value of the future cash flows;  and
(ii) the risk adjustment for non-financial risk.
101 For insurance contracts other than those to which the premium allocation approach described 
in paragraphs 53–59 or 69–70A has been applied, an entity shall also disclose reconciliations from the 
opening to the closing balances separately for each of:
(a) the estimates of the present value of the future cash flows;
(b) the risk adjustment for non-financial risk; and
(c) the contractual service margin.
102 The objective of the reconciliations in paragraphs 100 –101 is to provide different types of information 
about the insurance service result.
103 An entity shall separately disclose in the reconciliations required in paragraph 100 each of the following 
amounts related to services, if applicable:
D insurance revenue.
E insurance service expenses, showing separately:
L incurred claims (excluding investment components) and other inc urred insurance 
service expenses;
LL amortisation of insurance acquisition cash flows;
LLL changes that relate to past service, 
ie changes in fulfilment cash flows relating to 
the liability for incurred claims; and
LY changes that relate to future service, ie losses on onerous groups of contracts and 
reversals of such losses. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    23A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
(c) investment components excluded from insurance revenue and in surance service expenses
(combined with refunds of premiums unless refunds of premiums a re presented as part of the
cash flows in the period described in paragraph 105(a)(i)).
104 An entity shall separately disclose in the reconciliations required in paragraph 101 each of the following 
amounts related to services, if applicable:
D changes that relate to future service, applying paragraphs B96–B118, showing separately:
L changes in estimates that adjust the contractual service margin;
LL changes in estimates that do not adjust the contractual service  margin, ie losses on 
groups of onerous contracts and reversals of such losses; and
LLL the effects of contracts initially recognised in the period.
E changes that relate to current service, ie:
L the amount of the contractual service margin recognised in prof it or loss to reflect the 
transfer of services;
LL the change in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk that d oes not relate to future 
service or past service; and
LLL experience adjustments (see paragraphs B97(c) and B113(a)), excluding amounts 
relating to the risk adjustment for non-financial risk included in (ii).
F changes that relate to past service, ie changes in fulfilment ca sh flows relating to incurred 
claims (see paragraphs B97(b) and B113(a)). 
105 To complete the reconciliations in paragraphs 100–101, an entity shall also disclose separately each of 
the following amounts not related to services provided in the period, if applicable:
(a) cash flows in the period, including:
(i) premiums received for insurance contracts issued (or paid for rei nsurance 
contracts held);
(ii) insurance acquisition cash flows; and
(iii) incurred claims paid and other insurance service expenses paid for insurance contracts
issued (or recovered under reinsurance contracts held), excluding insurance acquisition
cash flows.
(b) the effect of changes in the risk of non-performance by the issuer of reinsurance contracts held;
(c) insurance finance income or expenses; and
(d) any additional line items that may be necessary to understan d the change in the net carrying
amount of the insurance contracts.
105A An entity shall disclose a reconciliation from the opening to the closing balance of assets for insurance 
acquisition cash flows recognised applying paragraph 28B. An en tity shall aggregate information for 
the reconciliation at a level that is consistent with that for the reconciliation of insurance contracts, 
applying paragraph 98.
105B An entity shall separately disclose in the reconciliation r equired by paragraph 105A any impairment 
losses and reversals of impairment losses recognised applying paragraph 28E–28F.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
106 For insurance contracts issued other than those to which the premium allocation approach described 
in paragraphs 53–59 has been applied, an entity shall disclose an analysis of the  insurance revenue 
recognised in the period comprising:
(a) the amounts relating to the changes in the liability for rema ining coverage as specified
in paragraph B124, separately disclosing:
(i) the insurance service expenses incurred during the period as  specified in paragraph
B124(a);
(ii) the change in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk, as  specified
in paragraph B124(b);
(iii) the amount of the contractual service margin recognised in profit or loss because of the
transfer of insurance contract services in the period, as specified in paragraph B124(c);
and
(iv) other amounts, if any, for example, experience adjustments for premium receipts other
than those that relate to future service as specified in paragraph B124(d).
(b) the allocation of the portion of the premiums that relate to  the recovery of insurance acquisition
cash flows (see paragraph B125).
107 For insurance contracts other than those to which the premium allocation approach described 
in paragraphs 53–59 or 69–70A has been applied, an entity shall disclose the effect on the statement of 
financial position separately for insurance contracts issued an d reinsurance contracts held that are 
initially recognised in the period, showing their effect at initial recognition on:
(a) the estimates of the present value of future cash outflows, showing separately the amount of
the insurance acquisition cash flows;
(b) the estimates of the present value of future cash inflows;
(c) the risk adjustment for non-financial risk; and
(d) the contractual service margin.
108 In the disclosures required by paragraph 107, an entity shall separately disclose amounts resulting from:
(a) contracts acquired from other  entities in transfers of insura nce contracts or business
combinations; and
(b) groups of contracts that are onerous.
109 For insurance contracts other than those to which the premium  allocation approach described in 
paragraphs 53–59 or 69–70A has been applied, an entity shall disclose when it expects to recognise the 
contractual service margin remaining at the end of the reportin g period in profit or loss quantitatively, 
in appropriate time bands. Such information shall be provided separately for insurance contracts issued 
and reinsurance contracts held.
109A An entity shall disclose quantitatively, in appropriate tim e bands, when it expects to derecognise an 
asset for insurance acquisition cash flows applying paragraph 28C.
Insurance finance income or expenses
110 An entity shall disclose and explain the total amount of ins urance finance income or expenses in the 
reporting period. In particular, an entity shall explain the relationship between insurance finance income 
or expenses and the investment return on its assets, to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate 
the sources of finance income or expenses recognised in profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
111 For contracts with direct participation features, the entity  shall describe the composition of the 
underlying items and disclose their fair value.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    25A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
112 For contracts with direct participation features, if an enti ty chooses not to adjust the contractual service 
margin for some changes in the fulfilment cash flows, applying paragraph B115, it shall disclose the 
effect of that choice on the adjustment to the contractual service margin in the current period.
113 For contracts with direct participation features, if an entit y changes the basis of disaggregation of 
insurance finance income or expenses between profit or loss and  other comprehensive income, 
applying paragraph B135, it shall disclose, in the period when the change in approach occurred:
(a) the reason why the entity was required to change the basis o f disaggregation;
(b) the amount of any adjustment for each financial statement li ne item affected; and
(c) the carrying amount of the group of insurance contracts to which the change applied at the date
of the change.
Transition amounts
114 An entity shall provide disclosures that enable users of fin ancial statements to identify the effect 
of groups of insurance contracts measured at the transition date applying the modified retrospective 
approach (see paragraphs C6–C19A) or the fair value approach (see paragraphs C20 –C24B) on 
the contractual service margin and insurance revenue in subsequent periods. Hence an entity shall 
disclose the reconciliation of the contractual service margin applying paragraph 101(c), and the amount 
of insurance revenue applying paragraph 103(a), separately for:
(a) insurance contracts that existed at the transition date to w hich the entity has applied the modified
retrospective approach;
(b) insurance contracts that ex isted at the transition date to which the entity has applied the fair value
approach; and
(c) all other insurance contracts.
115 For all periods in which disclosures are made applying parag raphs 114(a) or 114(b), to enable users of 
financial statements to understand the nature and significance o f the methods used and judgements 
applied in determining the transition amounts, an entity shall explain how it determined the 
measurement of insurance contracts at the transition date.
116 An entity that chooses to disaggregate insurance finance inc ome or expenses between profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income applies paragraphs C18(b), C19(b), C24(b) and C24(c) to determine the 
cumulative difference between the insurance finance income or e xpenses that would have been 
recognised in profit or loss and the total insurance finance income or expenses at the transition date for 
the groups of insurance contracts to which the disaggregation applies. For all periods in which amounts 
determined applying these paragraphs exist, the entity shall di sclose a reconciliation from the opening 
to the closing balance of the cumulative amounts included in other comprehensive income for financial 
assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive incom e related to the groups of insurance 
contracts. The reconciliation shall include, for example, gains  or losses recognised in other 
comprehensive income in the period and gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive 
income in previous periods reclassified in the period to profit or loss.
Significant judgements in applying SLFRS 17
117 An entity shall disclose the significant judgements and chan ges in judgements made in applying 
SLFRS 17. Specifically, an entity shall disclose the inputs, assumptions and estimation techniques used, 
including:

<!-- page 26 -->

26A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(a) the methods used to measure insurance contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17 and the processes 
for estimating the inputs to those methods. Unless impracticabl e, an entity shall also provide 
quantitative information about those inputs. 
(b) any changes in the methods and processes for estimating inp uts used to measure contracts, the 
reason for each change, and the type of contracts affected. 
(c) to the extent not covered in (a), the approach used:  
(i) to distinguish changes in estimates of future cash flows ar ising from the exercise of 
discretion from other changes in estimates of future cash flows for contracts without direct 
participation features (see paragraph B98); 
(ii) to determine the risk adjustment for non-financial risk, i ncluding whether changes in the 
risk adjustment for non-financial risk are disaggregated into a n insurance service 
component and an insurance finan ce component or are presented i n full in the insurance 
service result; 
(iii) to determine discount rates; 
(iv) to determine investment components; and 
(v) to determine the relative weighting of the benefits provide d by insurance coverage and 
investment-return service or by insurance coverage and investme nt-related service (see 
paragraphs B119–B119B). 
118 If, applying paragraph 88(b) or paragraph 89(b), an entity chooses to disaggregate  insurance finance 
income or expenses into amounts presented in profit or loss and  amounts presented in other 
comprehensive income, the entity shall disclose an explanation of the methods used to determine the 
insurance finance income or expenses recognised in profit or loss. 
119 An entity shall disclose the confidence level used to deter mine the risk adjustment for non-financial 
risk. If the entity uses a technique other than the confidence level technique for determining the risk 
adjustment for non-financial risk, it shall disclose the techni que used and the confidence level 
corresponding to the results of that technique. 
120 An entity shall disclose the yield curve (or range of yield  curves) used to discount cash flows that do 
not vary based on the returns on underlying items, applying paragraph 36. When an entity provides this 
disclosure in aggregate for a number of groups of insurance con tracts, it shall provide such disclosures 
in the form of weighted averages, or relatively narrow ranges. 
Nature and extent of risks that arise from contracts within the scope of 
SLFRS 17 
121 An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate the nature, 
amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows that arise from contracts within the scope of 
SLFRS 17. Paragraphs 122–132 contain requirements for disclosures that would normally be necessary 
to meet this requirement. 
122 These disclosures focus on the insurance and financial risk s that arise from insurance contracts and how 
they have been managed. Financial risks typically include, but are not limited to, credit risk, liquidity 
risk and market risk. 
123 If the informati on disclosed about an entity’s exposure to risk at the end of t he reporting period is not 
representative of its exposure to risk during the period, the entity shall disclose that fact, the reason why 
the period-end exposure is not representative, and further info rmation that is representative of its risk 
exposure during the period. 
 
 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    27A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
124 For each type of risk arising from contracts within the sco pe of SLFRS 17, an entity shall disclose:  
(a) the exposures to risks and how they arise; 
(b) the entity’s object ives, policies and processes for managing the risks and the met hods used to 
measure the risks; and 
(c) any changes in (a) or (b) from the previous period. 
125 For each type of risk arising from contracts within the sco pe of SLFRS 17, an entity shall disclose:  
(a) summary quantitative information about its exposure to that  risk at the end of the reporting 
period. This disclosure shall be based on the information provi ded internally to the entity’s key 
management personnel. 
(b) the disclosures required by paragraphs 127 –132, to the extent not provided applying (a) of this 
paragraph. 
126 An entity shall disclose information about the effect of th e regulatory frameworks in which it operates; 
for example, minimum capital requirements or required interest- rate guarantees. If an entity applies 
paragraph 20 in determining the groups of insurance contracts t o which it applies the recognition and 
measurement requirements of SLFRS 17, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
All types of risk—concentrations of risk 
127 An entity shall disclose information about concentrations o f risk arising from contracts within the scope 
of SLFRS 17, including a description of how the entity determines the concentrations, and a description 
of the shared characteristic that identifies each concentration  (for example, the type of insured event, 
industry, geographical area, or currency). Concentrations of fi nancial risk might arise, for example, 
from interest-rate guarantees that come into effect at the same  level for a large number of contracts. 
Concentrations of financial risk might also arise from concentrations of non-financial risk; for example, 
if an entity provides product liability protection to pharmaceu tical companies and also holds 
investments in those companies. 
 
Insurance and market risks—sensitivity analysis 
128 An entity shall disclose information about sensitivities to  changes in risk variables arising from contracts 
within the scope of SLFRS 17. To comply with this requirement, an entity shall disclose:  
(a) a sensitivity analysis that shows how profit or loss and eq uity would have been affected by 
changes in risk variables that were reasonably possible at the end of the reporting period:  
(i) for insurance risk —showing the effect for insurance contracts issued, before and after risk 
mitigation by reinsurance contracts held; and 
(ii) for each type of market risk —in a way that explains the relationship between the 
sensitivities to changes in risk variables arising from insurance contracts and those arising 
from financial assets held by the entity. 
(b) the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivi ty analysis; and 
(c) changes from the previous period in the methods and assumpt ions used in preparing the 
sensitivity analysis, and the reasons for such changes. 
129 If an entity prepares a sensitivity analysis that shows how  amounts different from those specified 
in paragraph 128(a) are affected by changes in risk variables and uses that sensitivity analysis to manage 

<!-- page 28 -->

28A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
risks arising from contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17, it may use that sensitivity analysis in place 
of the analysis specified in paragraph 128(a). The entity shall also disclose:
(a) an explanation of the method used in preparing such a sensit ivity analysis and of the main
parameters and assumptions underlying the information provided; and
(b) an explanation of the objective of the method used and of an y limitations that may result in the
information provided.
Insurance risk—claims development
130 An entity shall disclose actual claims compared with previou s estimates of the undiscounted amount of 
the claims (ie claims development). The disclosure about claims development shall start with the period 
when the earliest material claim(s) arose and for which there i s still uncertainty about the amount and 
timing of the claims payments at the end of the reporting perio d; but the disclosure is not required to 
start more than 10 years before the end of the reporting period . The entity is not required to disclose 
information about the development of claims for which uncertainty about the amount and timing of the 
claims payments is typically resolved within one year. An entit y shall reconcile the disclosure about 
claims development with the aggregate carrying amount of the groups of insurance contracts, which the 
entity discloses applying paragraph 100(c).
Credit risk—other information
131 For credit risk that arises from contracts within the scope of SLFRS 17, an entity shall disclose:
(a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to cred it risk at the end of the reporting
period, separately for insurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts held; and
(b) information about the credit quality of reinsurance contract s held that are assets.
Liquidity risk—other information
132 For liquidity risk arising from contracts within the scope o f SLFRS 17, an entity shall disclose:
(a) a description of how it manages the liquidity risk.
(b) separate maturity analyses for portfolios of insurance contra cts issued that are liabilities and
portfolios of reinsurance contracts held that are liabilities that show, as a minimum, net cash
flows of the portfolios for each of the first five years after the reporting date and in aggregate
beyond the first five years. An entity is not required to inclu de in these analyses liabilities for
remaining coverage measured applying paragraphs 55–59 and paragraphs 69–70A. The analyses
may take the form of:
(i) an analysis, by estimated timing, of the remaining contractu al undiscounted net cash
flows; or
(ii) an analysis, by estimated timing, of the estimates of the p resent value of the future cash
flows.
(c) the amounts that are payable on demand, explaining the relat ionship between such amounts and
the carrying amount of the related portfolios of contracts, if not disclosed applying (b) of this
paragraph.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    29A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts.
contractual service 
margin
A component of the carrying amount of the asset or liability fo r a group of 
insurance contracts representing the unearned profit the entity will recognise as 
it provides insurance contract services under the insurance contracts in the 
group. 
coverage period The period during which the entity provides insurance contract services . This 
period includes the insurance contract services that relate to all premiums within 
the boundary of the insurance contract.
experience 
adjustment
A difference between: 
(a) for premium receipts (and any related cash flows such as insurance
acquisition cash flows and insurance premium taxes)—the estimate at the
beginning of the period of the amounts expected in the period and the actual
cash flows in the period; or
(b) for insurance service expenses (excluding insurance acquisit ion
expenses)—the estim ate at the beginning of the period of the amounts
expected to be incurred in the period and the actual amounts incurred in the
period.
financial risk The risk of a possible future change in one or more of a specif ied interest rate, 
financial instrument price, commodity price, currency exchange rate, index of 
prices or rates, credit rating or credit index or other variable, provided in the case 
of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract. 
fulfilment cash flows An explicit, unbiased and probability-weighted estimate (ie expected value) of the 
present value of the future cash outflows minus the present val ue of the future 
cash inflows that will arise as the entity fulfils insurance contracts, including a 
risk adjustment for non-financial risk.
group of insurance 
contracts
A set of insurance contracts resulting from the division of a portfolio of 
insurance contracts into, at a minimum, contracts issued within a period of no 
longer than one year and that, at initial recognition: 
(a) are onerous, if any;
(b) have no significant possibility of becoming onerous subseque ntly, if any; or
(c) do not fall into either (a) or (b), if any.
insurance 
acquisition cash 
flows
Cash flows arising from the costs of selling, underwriting and starting a group of 
insurance contracts (issued or expected to be issued) that are directly attributable 
to the portfolio of insurance contracts to which the group belongs. Such cash 
flows include cash flows that are not directly attributable to individual contracts 
or groups of insurance contracts within the portfolio. 

<!-- page 30 -->

30A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
insurance contract A contract under which one party (the issuer) accepts sign ificant insurance risk 
from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the 
policyholder if a specified uncertain future event (the insured event) adversely 
affects the policyholder.  
insurance contract 
services 
The following services that an entity provides to a policyholder of an insurance 
contract: 
(a) coverage for an insured event (insurance coverage); 
(b) f o r  insurance contracts without direct participation features , the 
generation of an investment return for the policyholder, if applicable 
(investment-return service); and 
(c) f o r  insurance contracts with direct participation features , the 
management of underlying items on behalf of the policyholder 
(investment-related service). 
insurance contract 
with direct 
participation 
feature
s 
An insurance contract for which, at inception:  
(a) the contractual terms specify that the policyholder participates in a share of 
a clearly identified pool of underlying items; 
(b) the entity expects to pay to the policyholder an amount equal to a 
substantial share of the fair value returns on the underlying items; and 
(c) the entity expects a substantial proportion of any change in th e amounts to 
be paid to the policyholder to vary with the change in fair value of the 
underlying items. 
insurance contract 
without direct 
participation 
features 
An insurance contract  that is not an insurance contract with direct 
participation features. 
insurance risk Risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the holder of a contract to the 
issuer. 
insured event An uncertain future event covered by an insurance contract  that creates 
insurance risk.  
investment 
component 
The amounts that an insurance contract  requires the entity to repay to a 
policyholder in all circumstances, regardless of whether an insured event occurs.  
investment contract 
with discretionary 
participation 
features 
A financial instrument that provides a particular investor with the contractual right 
to receive, as a supplement to an amount not subject to the discretion of the issuer, 
additional amounts:  
(a) that are expected to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits; 
(b) the timing or amount of which are contractually at the discreti on of the 
issuer; and 
(c) that are contractually based on:  
(i) the returns on a specifie d pool of contracts or a specified type of 
contract; 
(ii) realised and/or unrealised investment returns on a specified po ol of 
assets held by the issuer; or 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    31A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(iii) the profit or loss of the entity or fund that issues the contract. 
liability for incurred 
claims 
An entity’s obligation to: 
(a) investigate and pay valid claims for insured events  that have already 
occurred, including events that have occurred but for which claims have not 
been reported, and other incurred insurance expenses; and  
(b) pay amounts that are not included in (a) and that relate to: 
(i) insurance contract services that have already been provided; or 
(ii) any investment components or other amounts that are not related to 
the provision of insurance contract services and that are not in the 
liability for remaining coverage 
liability for 
remaining coverage 
An entity’s obligation to: 
(a) investigate and pay valid claims under existing insurance contracts  f o r  
insured events that have not yet occurred (ie the obligation that relates to 
the unexpired portion of the insurance coverage); and  
(b) pay amounts under existing insurance contracts that are not included in (a) 
and that relate to: 
(i) insurance contract services not yet provided (ie the obligations that 
relate to future provision of insurance contract services); or 
(ii) any investment components or other amounts that are not related to 
the provision of insurance contract services and that have not been 
transferred to the liability for incurred claims. 
policyholder A party that has a right to compensation under an insurance contract  if an 
insured event occurs. 
portfolio of 
insurance contracts 
Insurance contracts subject to similar risks and managed together. 
reinsurance contract An insurance contract issued by one entity (the reinsurer) to compensate another 
entity for claims arising from one or more insurance contracts  issued by that 
other entity (underlying contracts).  
risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk 
The compensation an entity requires for bearing the uncertainty about the amount 
and timing of the cash flows that arises from non-financial risk as the entity fulfils 
insurance contracts.  
underlying items Items that determine some of the amounts payable to a policyholder. Underlying 
items can comprise any items; for example, a reference portfolio of assets, the net 
assets of the entity, or a specified subset of the net assets of the entity. 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 32 -->

32A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Appendix B 
Application guidance 
This appendix is an integral part of SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts. 
B1 This appendix provides gu idance on the following:  
(a) definition of an insurance contract (see paragraphs B2 –B30); 
(b) separation of components from an insurance contract (see paragraphs B31–B35); 
(ba) asset for insurance acquisition cash flows (see paragraphs  B35A–B35D); 
(c) measurement (see paragraphs B36 –B119F); 
(d) insurance revenue (see paragraphs B120 –B127); 
(e) insurance finance income or expenses (see paragraphs B128 –B136); and 
(f) interim financial statements (see paragraph B137). 
 
Definition of an insurance contract (Appendix A) 
B2 This section provides guidance on the definition of an insur ance contract as specified in Appendix A. It 
addresses the following:  
(a) uncertain future event (see paragraphs B3 –B5); 
(b) payments in kind (see paragraph B6); 
(c) the distinction between insurance risk and other risks (see  paragraphs B7–B16); 
(d) significant insurance risk (see paragraphs B17 –B23); 
(e) changes in the level of insurance risk (see paragraphs B24 –B25); and 
(f) examples of insurance contracts (see paragraphs B26 –B30). 
 
Uncertain future event 
B3 Uncertainty (or risk) is the essence of an insurance contrac t. Accordingly, at least one of the following 
is uncertain at the inception of an insurance contract:  
(a) the probability of an insured event occurring; 
(b) when the insured event will occur; or 
(c) how much the entity will need to pay if the insured event o ccurs. 
B4 In some insurance contracts, the insured event is the discov ery of a loss during the term of the contract, 
even if that loss arises from an event that occurred before the inception of the contract. In other insurance 
contracts, the insured event is an event that occurs during the term of the contract, even if the resulting 
loss is discovered after the end of the contract term. 
B5 Some insurance contracts cover events that have already occu rred but the financial effect of which is 
still uncertain. An example is an insurance contract that provides insurance coverage against an adverse 
development of an event that has already occurred. In such cont racts, the insured event is the 
determination of the ultimate cost of those claims. 
Payments in kind 
B6 Some insurance contracts require or permit payments to be ma de in kind. In such cases, the entity 
provides goods or services to the policyholder to settle the en tity’s obligation to compensate t he 
policyholder for insured events. An example is when the entity replaces a stolen article instead of 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    33A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
reimbursing the policyholder for the amount of its loss. Another example is when an entity uses its own 
hospitals and medical staff to provide medical services covered  by the insurance contract. Such 
contracts are insurance contracts, even though the claims are settled in kind. Fixed-fee service contracts 
that meet the conditions specified in paragraph 8 are also insu rance contracts, but applying paragraph 
8, an entity may choose to account for them applying either SLF RS 17 or SLFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers. 
 
The distinction between insurance risk and other risks 
B7 The definition of an insurance contract requires that one pa rty accepts significant insurance risk from 
another party. SLFRS 17 defines insurance risk as ‘risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the 
holder of a contract to the issuer’. A contract that exposes the issuer to financial risk without significant 
insurance risk is not an insurance contract. 
B8 The definition of financial risk in Appendix A refers to fin ancial and non-financial variables. Examples 
of non-financial variables not specific to a party to the contract include an index of earthquake losses in 
a particular region or temper atures in a particular city. Finan cial risk excludes risk from non-financial 
variables that are specific to a p arty to the contract, such as the occurrence or non-occurrence of a fire 
that damages or destroys an asset of that party. Furthermore, t he risk of changes in the fair value of a 
non-financial asset is not a financial risk if the fair value r eflects changes in the market prices for such 
assets (ie a financial variable) and the condition of a specifi c non-financial asset held by a party to a 
contract (ie a non-financial variable). For example, if a guarantee of the residual value of a specific car 
in which the policyholder has an insurable interest exposes the  guarantor to the risk of changes in the 
car’s physical condition, that risk is insurance risk, not financial risk. 
B9 Some contracts expose the issuer to financial risk in additi on to significant insurance risk. For example, 
many life insurance contracts guarantee a minimum rate of retur n to policyholders, creating financial 
risk, and at the same time promise death benefits that may sign ificantly exceed the policyholder’s 
account balance, creating insurance risk in the form of mortali ty risk. Such contracts are insurance 
contracts. 
B10 Under some contracts, an insured event triggers the payment  of an amount linked to a price index. Such 
contracts are insurance contracts, provided that the payment co ntingent on the insured event could be 
significant. For example, a life-contingent annuity linked to a  cost-of-living index transfers insurance 
risk because the payment is triggered by an uncertain future ev ent—the survival of the person who 
receives the annuity. The link to the price index is a derivati ve, but it also transfers insurance risk 
because the number of payments to which the index applies depends on the survival of the annuitant. If 
the resulting transfer of insurance risk is significant, the derivative meets the definition of an insurance 
contract, in which case it shall not be separated from the host contract (see paragraph 11(a)). 
B11 Insurance risk is the risk the entity accepts from the poli cyholder. This means the entity must accept, 
from the policyholder, a risk to which the policyholder was alr eady exposed. Any new risk created by 
the contract for the entity or the policyholder is not insurance risk. 
B12 The definition of an insurance contract refers to an advers e effect on the policyholder. This definition 
does not limit the payment by the entity to an amount equal to the financial effect of the adverse event. 
For example, the definition includes ‘new for old’ insurance covera ge that pays the policyholder an 
amount that permits the replacement of a used and damaged asset  with a new one. Similarly, the 
definition does not limit the payment under a life insurance contract to the financial loss suffered by the 
deceased’s dependants, nor does it exclude contracts that specify the payment of predetermined amounts 
to quantify the loss caused by death or an accident. 

<!-- page 34 -->

34A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
B13 Some contracts require a payment if a specified uncertain f uture event occurs, but do not require an 
adverse effect on the policyholder as a precondition for the pa yment. This type of contract is not an 
insurance contract even if the holder uses it to mitigate an underlying risk exposure. For example, if the 
holder uses a derivative to hedge an underlying financial or no n-financial variable correlated with the 
cash flows from an asset of the entity, the derivative is not a n insurance contract because the payment 
is not conditional on whether the holder is adversely affected by a reduction in the cash flows from the 
asset. The definition of an insurance contract refers to an unc ertain future event for which an adverse 
effect on the policyholder is a contractual precondition for pa yment. A contractual precondition does 
not require the entity to investigate whether the event actuall y caused an adverse effect, but it does 
permit the entity to deny the payment if it is not satisfied that the event did cause an adverse effect. 
B14 Lapse or persistency risk (the risk that the policyholder w ill cancel the contract earlier or later than the 
issuer had expected when pricing the contract) is not insurance  risk because the resulting variability in 
the payment to the policyholder is not contingent on an uncertain future event that adversely affects the 
policyholder. Similarly, expense risk (ie the risk of unexpecte d increases in the administrative costs 
associated with the servicing of a contract, rather than in the costs associated with insured events) is not 
insurance risk because an unexpected increase in such expenses does not adversely affect the 
policyholder. 
B15 Consequently, a contract that exposes the entity to lapse r isk, persistency risk or expense risk is not an 
insurance contract unless it also exposes the entity to signifi cant insurance risk. However, if the entity 
mitigates its risk by using a second contract to transfer part of the non-insurance risk to another party, 
the second contract exposes the other party to insurance risk. 
B16 An entity can accept significant insurance risk from the po licyholder only if the entity is separate from 
the policyholder. In the case of a mutual entity, the mutual en tity accepts risk from each policyholder 
and pools that risk. Although policyholders bear that pooled ri sk collectively because they hold the 
residual interest in the entity, the mutual entity is a separate entity that has accepted the risk. 
 
Significant insurance risk 
B17 A contract is an insurance contract only if it transfers si gnificant insurance risk. Paragraphs B7 –B16 
discuss insurance risk. Paragraphs B18 –B23 discuss the assessment of whether the insurance risk is 
significant. 
B18 Insurance risk is significant if, and only if, an insured e vent could cause the issuer to pay additional 
amounts that are significant in any single scenario, excluding scenarios that have no commercial 
substance (ie no discernible effect on the economics of the transaction). If an insured event could mean 
significant additional amounts would be payable in any scenario  that has commercial substance, the 
condition in the previous sentence can be met even if the insured event is extremely unlikely, or even if 
the expected (ie probability-weighted) present value of the con tingent cash flows is a small proportion 
of the expected present value of the remaining cash flows from the insurance contract. 
B19 In addition, a contract transfers significant insurance ris k only if there is a scenario that has commercial 
substance in which the issuer has a possibility of a loss on a present value basis. However, even if a 
reinsurance contract does not expose the issuer to the possibil ity of a significant loss, that contract is 
deemed to transfer significant insurance risk if it transfers to the reinsurer substantially all the insurance 
risk relating to the reinsured portions of the underlying insurance contracts. 
B20 The additional amounts described in paragraph B18 are deter mined on a present-value basis. If an 
insurance contract requires payment when an event with uncertai n timing occurs and if the payment is 
not adjusted for the time value of money, there may be scenario s in which the present value of the 
payment increases, even if its nominal value is fixed. An examp le is insurance that provides a fixed 
death benefit when the policyholder dies, with no expiry date for the cover (often referred to as whole-
life insurance for a fixed amount). It is certain that the poli cyholder will die, but the date of death is 
uncertain. Payments may be made when an individual policyholder dies earlier than expected. Because 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    35A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
those payments are not adjusted for the time value of money, significant insurance risk could exist even 
if there is no overall loss on the portfolio of contracts. Simi larly, contractual terms that delay timely 
reimbursement to the policyholder can eliminate significant ins urance risk. An entity shall use the 
discount rates required in paragraph 36 to determine the present value of the additional amounts. 
B21 The additional amounts described in paragraph B18 refer to the present value of amounts that exceed 
those that would be payable if no insured event had occurred (excluding scenarios that lack commercial 
substance). Those additional amounts include claims handling and assessment costs, but exclude:  
(a) the loss of the ability to charge the policyholder for futu re service. For example, in an investment-
linked life insurance contract, the death of the policyholder m eans that the entity can no longer 
perform investment management services and collect a fee for doing so. However, this economic 
loss for the entity does not result from insurance risk, just a s a mutual fund manager does not 
take on insurance risk in relation to the possible death of a c lient. Consequently, the potential 
loss of future investment management fees is not relevant when assessing how much insurance 
risk is transferred by a contract. 
(b) a waiver, on death, of charges that would be made on cancel lation or surrender. Because the 
contract brought those charges into existence, their waiver does not compensate the policyholder 
for a pre-existing risk. Consequently, they are not relevant wh en assessing how much insurance 
risk is transferred by a contract. 
(c) a payment conditional on an event that does not cause a sig nificant loss to the holder of the 
contract. For example, consider a contract that requires the issuer to pay CU1 million1 if an asset 
suffers physical damage that causes an insignificant economic loss of CU1 to the holder. In this 
contract, the holder transfers the insignificant risk of losing CU1 to the issuer. At the same time, 
the contract creates a non‑insurance risk that the issuer will need to pay CU999,999 if the 
specified event occurs. Because there is no scenario in which an insured event causes a significant 
loss to the holder of the contract, the issuer does not accept significant insurance risk from the 
holder and this contract is not an insurance contract. 
(d) possible reinsurance recoveries. The entity accounts for th ese separately. 
B22 An entity shall assess the significance of insurance risk c ontract by contract. Consequently, the 
insurance risk can be significant even if there is minimal probability of significant losses for a portfolio 
or group of contracts. 
B23 It follows from paragraphs B18 –B22 that, if a contract pays a death benefit that exceeds the a mount 
payable on survival, the contract is an insurance contract unle ss the additional death benefit is not 
significant (judged by reference to the contract itself rather than to an entire portfolio of contracts). As 
noted in paragraph B21(b), the waiver on death of cancellation or surrender charges is not included in 
this assessment if that waiver does not compensate the policyho lder for a pre-existing risk. Similarly, 
an annuity contract that pays out regular sums for the rest of a policyholder’s life is an ins urance 
contract, unless the aggregate life-contingent payments are insignificant. 
 
Changes in the level of insurance risk 
B24 For some contracts, the transfer of insurance risk to the i ssuer occurs after a period of time. For example, 
consider a contract that provides a specified investment return  and includes an option for the 
policyholder to use the proceeds of the investment on maturity to buy a life-contingent annuity at the 
same rates the entity charges other new annuitants at the time the policyholder exercises that option. 
                                                           
1 CU denotes currency unit. 

<!-- page 36 -->

36A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
Such a contract transfers insurance risk to the issuer only after the option is exercised, because the entity 
remains free to price the annuity on a basis that reflects the insurance risk that will be transferred to the 
entity at that time. Consequently, the cash flows that would oc cur on the exercise of the option fall 
outside the boundary of the contract, and before exercise there  are no insurance cash flows within the 
boundary of the contract. However, if the contract specifies th e annuity rates (or a basis other than 
market rates for setting the annuity rates), the contract transfers insurance risk to the issuer because the 
issuer is exposed to the risk that the annuity rates will be un favourable to the issuer when the 
policyholder exercises the optio n. In that case, the cash flows  that would occur when the option is 
exercised are within the boundary of the contract.
B25 A contract that meets the definition of an insurance contrac t remains an insurance contract until all 
rights and obligations are extinguished (ie discharged, cancell ed or expired), unless the contract is 
derecognised applying paragraphs 74–77, because of a contract modification.
Examples of insurance contracts
B26 The following are examples of contracts that are insurance c ontracts if the transfer of insurance risk is 
significant: 
(a) insurance against theft or damage.
(b) insurance against product liab ility, professional liability, civil liability or legal expenses.
(c) life insurance and prepaid funeral plans (although death is certain, it is uncertain when death will
occur or, for some types of life insurance, whether death will occur within the period covered by
the insurance).
(d) life-contingent annuities and pensions, ie contracts that provide compensation for the uncertain
future event—the survival of the annuitant or pensioner —to provide the annuitant or pensioner
with a level of income that would otherwise be adversely affect e d  b y  h i s  o r  h e r  s u r v i v a l .
(Employers’ liabilities that arise from employee benefit plans and retirement benefit obligations
reported by defined benefit retirement plans are outside the sc ope of SLFRS 17, applying
paragraph 7(b)).
(e) insurance against disability and medical costs.
(f) surety bonds, fidelity bonds, per formance bonds and bid bonds, ie contracts that compensate the
holder if another party fails to perform a contractual obligati on; for example, an obligation to
construct a building.
(g) product warranties. Product warranties issued by another par ty for goods sold by a manufacturer,
dealer or retailer are within the scope of SLFRS 17. However, product warranties issued directly
by a manufacturer, dealer or retailer are outside the scope of SLFRS 17 applying paragraph 7(a),
and are instead within the scope of SLFRS 15 or LKAS 37Provisions, Contingent Liabilities
and Contingent Assets.
(h) title insurance (insurance against the discovery of defects in the title to land or buildings that
were not apparent when the insurance contract was issued). In t his case, the insured event is the
discovery of a defect in the title, not the defect itself.
(i) travel insurance (compensation in cash or in kind to policyh olders for losses suffered in advance
of, or during, travel).
(j) catastrophe bonds that provide for reduced payments of princ ipal, interest or both, if a specified
event adversely affects the issuer of the bond (unless the spec ified event does not create
significant insurance risk; for example, if the event is a chan ge in an interest rate or a foreign
exchange rate).

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    37A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(k) insurance swaps and other contracts that require a payment depending on changes in climatic, 
geological or other physical variables that are specific to a party to the contract. 
 
B27 The following are examples o f items that are not insurance contracts:  
(a) investment contracts that have the legal form of an insuran ce contract but do not transfer 
significant insurance risk to the issuer. For example, life insurance contracts in which the entity 
bears no significant mortality or morbidity risk are not insura nce contracts; such contracts are 
financial instruments or service contracts —see paragraph B28. Investment contracts with 
discretionary participation features do not meet the definition of an insurance contract; however, 
they are within the scope of SLFRS 17 provided they are issued by an entity that also issues 
insurance contracts, applying paragraph 3(c). 
(b) contracts that have the legal form of insurance, but return  all significant insurance risk to 
the policyholder through non-cancellable and enforceable mechan isms that adjust future 
payments by the policyholder to the issuer as a direct result of insured losses. For example, some 
financial reinsurance contracts or some group contracts return all significant insurance risk to the 
policyholders; such contracts are normally financial instrument s or service contracts 
(see paragraph B28). 
(c) self-insurance (ie retaining a risk that could have been co vered by insurance). In such situations, 
there is no insurance contract because there is no agreement with another party. Thus, if an entity 
issues an insurance contract to its parent, subsidiary or fello w subsidiary, there is no insurance 
contract in the consolidated financial statements because there is no contract with another party. 
However, for the individual or separate financial statements of  the issuer or holder, there is an 
insurance contract. 
(d) contracts (such as gambling contracts) that require a payme nt if a specified uncertain future event 
occurs, but do not require, as a contractual precondition for payment, the event to adversely affect 
the policyholder. However, this does not exclude from the defin ition of an insurance contract 
contracts that specify a predetermined payout to quantify the l oss caused by a specified event 
such as a death or an accident (see paragraph B12). 
(e) derivatives that expose a party to financial risk but not i nsurance risk, because the derivatives 
require that party to make (or give them the right to receive) payment solely based on the changes 
in one or more of a specified interest rate, a financial instru ment price, a commodity price, a 
foreign exchange rate, an index of prices or rates, a credit ra ting or a credit index or any other 
variable, provided that, in the case of a non-financial variabl e, the variable is not specific to a 
party to the contract. 
(f) credit-related guarantees that require payments even if the  holder has not incurred a loss on the 
failure of the debtor to make payments when due; such contracts  are accounted for 
applying SLFRS 9  Financial Instruments (see paragraph B29). 
(g) contracts that require a payment that depends on a climatic , geological or any other physical 
variable not specific to a party to the contract (commonly described as weather derivatives). 
(h) contracts that provide for reduced payments of principal, i nterest or both, that depend on a 
climatic, geological or any other physical variable, the effect  of which is not specific to a party 
to the contract (commonly referred to as catastrophe bonds). 
 
B28 An entity shall apply other applicable Standards, such as S L F RS 9 a n d SL FR S 15,  t o th e  c on t r a c ts  
described in paragraph B27. 

<!-- page 38 -->

38A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
B29 The credit-related guarantees and credit insurance contract s discussed in paragraph B27(f) can have 
various legal forms, such as that of a guarantee, some types of letters of credit, a credit default contract 
or an insurance contract. Those contracts are insurance contrac ts if they require the issuer to make 
specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss that the holder incurs because a specified debtor 
fails to make payment when due to the policyholder applying the  original or modified terms of a debt 
instrument. However, such insurance contracts are excluded from  the scope of SLFRS 17 unless the 
issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regards the contracts as insurance contracts and has used 
accounting applicable to insurance contracts (see paragraph 7(e)). 
B30 Credit-related guarantees and credit insurance contracts th at require payment, even if the policyholder 
has not incurred a loss on the failure of the debtor to make pa yments when due, are outside the scope 
of SLFRS 17 because they do not transfer significant insurance risk. Such contracts include those that 
require payment:  
(a) regardless of whether the co unterparty holds the underlying debt instrument; or 
(b) on a change in the credit r ating or the credit index, rather than on the failure of a specified 
debtor to make payments when due. 
 
Separating components from an insurance contract (paragraphs 10–13) 
Investment components (paragraph 11(b)) 
B31 Paragraph 11(b) requires an entity to separate a distinct i nvestment component from the host insurance 
contract. An investment component is distinct if, and only if, both the following conditions are met: 
(a) the investment component and the insurance component are no t highly interrelated. 
(b) a contract with equivalent terms is sold, or could be sold,  separately in the same market or the 
same jurisdiction, either by entities that issue insurance cont racts or by other parties. The entity 
shall take into account all information reasonably available in  making this determination. The 
entity is not required to undertake an exhaustive search to ide ntify whether an investment 
component is sold separately. 
B32 An investment component and an insurance component are high ly interrelated if, and only if:  
(a) the entity is unable to measure one component without consi dering the other. Thus, if the value 
of one component varies according to the value of the other, an  entity shall apply SLFRS 17 to 
account for the combined investment and insurance component; or 
(b) the policyholder is unable to benefit from one component un less the other is also present. Thus, 
if the lapse or maturity of one component in a contract causes the lapse or maturity of the other, 
the entity shall apply SLFRS 17 to account for the combined inv estment component and 
insurance component. 
Promises to transfer distinct goods or services other than insurance contract 
services (paragraph 12) 
B33 Paragraph 12 requires an entity to separate from an insuran ce contract a promise to transfer distinct 
goods or services other than insurance contract services to a policyholder. For the purpose of separation, 
an entity shall not consider activities that an entity must und ertake to fulfil a contract unless the entity 
transfers a good or service other than insurance contract servi ces to the policyholder as those activities 
occur. For example, an entity may need to perform various administrative tasks to set up a contract. The 
performance of those tasks does not transfer a service to the policyholder as the tasks are performed. 
B34 A good or service other than an insurance contract service promised to a policyholder is distinct if the 
policyholder can benefit from the good or service either on its  own or together with other resources 

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    39A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
readily available to the policyho lder. Readily available resour ces are goods or services that are sold 
separately (by the entity or by another entity), or resources t hat the policyholder has already got (from 
the entity or from other transactions or events). 
B35 A good or service other than an insurance contract service that is promised to the policyholder is not 
distinct if:  
(a) the cash flows and risks associated with the good or servic e are highly interrelated with the cash 
flows and risks associated with the insurance components in the contract; and 
(b) the entity provides a significant service in integrating th e good or service with the insurance 
components. 
Insurance acquisition cash flows (paragraphs 28A‒28F) 
B35A To apply paragraph 28A, an entity shall use a systematic a nd rational method to allocate: 
(a) insurance acquisition cash flows directly attributable to a  group of insurance contracts: 
(i) to that group; and 
(ii) to groups that will include insurance contracts that are e xpected to arise from renewals 
of the insurance contracts in that group. 
(b) insurance acquisition cash flows directly attributable to a  portfolio of insurance contracts, other 
than those in (a), to groups of contracts in the portfolio. 
B35B At the end of each reporting period, an entity shall revis e amounts allocated as specified in paragraph 
B35A to reflect any changes in assumptions that determine the i nputs to the method of allocation 
used. An entity shall not change amounts allocated to a group of insurance contracts after all contracts 
have been added to the group (see paragraph B35C). 
B35C An entity might add insurance contracts to a group of insu rance contracts across more than one 
reporting period (see paragraph 28). In those circumstances, an  entity shall derecognise the portion 
of an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows that relates to insurance contracts added to the group 
in that period and continue to recognise an asset for insurance  acquisition cash flows to the extent 
that the asset relates to insuran ce contracts expected to be ad ded to the group in a future reporting 
period. 
B35D To apply paragraph 28E: 
(a) an entity shall recognise an impairment loss in profit or l oss and reduce the carrying amount 
of an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows so that the ca rrying amount of the asset does 
not exceed the expected net cash inflow for the related group o f insurance contracts, 
determined applying paragraph 32(a). 
(b) when an entity allocates insur ance acquisition cash flows t o groups of insurance contracts 
applying paragraph B35A(a)(ii), the entity shall recognise an impairment loss in profit or loss 
and reduce the carrying amount of the related assets for insurance acquisition cash flows to the 
extent that: 
(i) the entity expects those insurance acquisition cash flows t o exceed the net cash inflow 
for the expected renewals, determined applying paragraph 32(a); and 
(ii) the excess determined applying (b)(i) has not already been  recognised as an 
impairment loss applying (a). 
 

<!-- page 40 -->

40A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Measurement (paragraphs 29–71) 
Estimates of future cash flows (paragraphs 33–35) 
B36 This section addresses:  
(a) unbiased use of all reasonable and supportable information available without undue cost or 
effort (see paragraphs B37–B41); 
(b) market variables and non-market variables (see paragraphs B 42–B53); 
(c) using current estimates (see paragraphs B54 –B60); and 
(d) cash flows within the contra ct boundary (see paragraphs B61–B71). 
 
Unbiased use of all reasonable and supportable information available without 
undue cost or effort (paragraph 33(a)) 
B37 The objective of estimating future cash flows is to determi ne the expected value, or probability-
weighted mean, of the full range of possible outcomes, consider ing all reasonable and supportable 
information available at the reporting date without undue cost or effort. Reasonable and supportable 
information available at the reporting date without undue cost or effort includes information about 
past events and current conditions , and forecasts of future con ditions (see paragraph B41). 
Information available from an entity’s own information systems is considered to be available without 
undue cost or effort. 
B38 The starting point for an estimate of the cash flows is a r ange of scenarios that reflects the full range 
of possible outcomes. Each scenario specifies the amount and timing of the cash flows for a particular 
outcome, and the estimated probability of that outcome. The cas h flows from each scenario are 
discounted and weighted by the estimated probability of that ou tcome to derive an expected present 
value. Consequently, the objective is not to develop a most likely outcome, or a more-likely-than-not 
outcome, for future cash flows. 
B39 When considering the full range of possible outcomes, the o bjective is to incorporate all reasonable 
and supportable information available without undue cost or effort in an unbiased way, rather than to 
identify every possible scenario. In practice, developing expli cit scenarios is unnecessary if the 
resulting estimate is consistent with the measurement objective  of considering all reasonable and 
supportable information available without undue cost or effort when determining the mean. For 
example, if an entity estimates that the probability distribution of outcomes is broadly consistent with 
a probability distribution that can be described completely with a small number of parameters, it will 
be sufficient to estimate the smaller number of parameters. Similarly, in some cases, relatively simple 
modelling may give an answer within an acceptable range of prec ision, without the need for many 
detailed simulations. However, in some cases, the cash flows ma y be driven by complex underlying 
factors and may respond in a non-linear fashion to changes in economic conditions. This may happen 
if, for example, the cash flows reflect a series of interrelate d options that are implicit or explicit. In 
such cases, more sophisticated sto chastic modelling is likely t o be necessary to satisfy the 
measurement objective. 
B40 The scenarios developed shall include unbiased estimates of  the probability of catastrophic losses 
under existing contracts. Those scenarios exclude possible claims under possible future contracts. 
B41 An entity shall estimate the probabilities and amounts of f uture payments under existing contracts on 
the basis of information obtained including:  
(a) information about claims alr eady reported by policyholders. 
(b) other information about the known or estimated characterist ics of the insurance contracts. 

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    41A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
(c) historical data about the entity’s own experience, supplemented when necessary with historical
data from other sources. Historical data is adjusted to reflect  current conditions, for example,
if:
(i) the characteristics of the insured population differ (or wil l differ, for example, because
of adverse selection) from those of the population that has bee n used as a basis for the
historical data;
(ii) there are indications that historical trends will not conti nue, that new trends will emerge
or that economic, demographic and other changes may affect the cash flows that arise
from the existing insurance contracts; or
(iii) there have been changes in items such as underwriting proc edures and claims
management procedures that may affect the relevance of historical data to the insurance
contracts.
(d) current price information, if available, for reinsurance con tracts and other financial instruments
(if any) covering similar risks, such as catastrophe bonds and weather derivatives, and recent
market prices for transfers of insurance contracts. This information shall be adjusted to reflect
the differences between the cash flows that arise from those re insurance contracts or other
financial instruments, and the cash flows that would arise as t he entity fulfils the underlying
contracts with the policyholder.
Market variables and non-market variables
B42 SLFRS 17 identifies two types of variables: 
D market variables—variables that can be observed in, or derived directly from, markets
(forexample, prices of publicly traded securities and interest rates); and
E non-market variables —all other variables (for example, the frequency and severity of 
insurance claims and mortality). 
B43 Market variables will generally give rise to financial risk (for example, observable interest rates) and 
non-market variables will generally give rise to non-financial risk (for example, mortality rates). 
However, this will not always be the case. For example, there m ay be assumptions that relate to 
financial risks for which variables cannot be observed in, or d erived directly from, markets (for 
example, interest rates that cannot be observed in, or derived directly from, markets).
Market variables (paragraph 33(b))
B44 Estimates of market variables shall be consistent with obser vable market prices at the measurement 
date. An entity shall maximise the use of observable inputs and shall not substitute its own estimates 
for observable market data except as described in paragraph 79 o f SLFRS 13 Fair Value 
Measurement. Consistent with SLFRS 13, if variables need to be derived (for example, because no 
observable market variables exist) they shall be as consistent as possible with observable market 
variables.
B45 Market prices blend a range of views about possible future o utcomes and also reflect the risk 
preferences of market participants . Consequently, they are not a single-point forecast of the future 
outcome. If the actual outcome differs from the previous market  price, this does not mean that the 
market price was ‘wrong’.

<!-- page 42 -->

42A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
B46 An important application of market variables is the notion o f a replicating asset or a replicating 
portfolio of assets. A replicating asset is one whose cash flow s exactly match, in all scenarios, the 
contractual cash flows of a group of insurance contracts in amo unt, timing and uncertainty. In some 
cases, a replicating asset may exist for some of the cash flows  that arise from a group of insurance 
contracts. The fair value of that asset reflects both the expec ted present value of the cash flows from 
the asset and the risk associated with those cash flows. If a r eplicating portfolio of assets exists for 
some of the cash flows that arise from a group of insurance contracts, the entity can use the fair value 
of those assets to measure the relevant fulfilment cash flows instead of explicitly estimating the cash 
flows and discount rate.
B47 SLFRS 17 does not require an entity to use a replicating portfolio technique. However, if a replicating 
asset or portfolio does exist for some of the cash flows that a rise from insurance contracts and an 
entity chooses to use a different technique, the entity shall s atisfy itself that a replicating portfolio 
technique would be unlikely to lead to a materially different measurement of those cash flows.
B48 Techniques other than a replicating portfolio technique, suc h as stochastic modelling techniques, may 
be more robust or easier to implement if there are significant interdependencies between cash flows 
that vary based on returns on assets and other cash flows. Judg ement is required to determine the 
technique that best meets the objective of consistency with obs ervable market variables in specific 
circumstances. In particular, the technique used must result in  the measurement of any options and 
guarantees included in the insurance contracts being consistent with observable market prices (if any) 
for such options and guarantees.
Non-market variables
B49 Estimates of non- market variables shall reflect all reasonable and supportable e vidence available 
without undue cost or effort, both external and internal.
B50 Non-market external data (for example, national mortality st atistics) may have more or less relevance 
than internal data (for example, internally developed mortality  statistics), depending on the 
circumstances. For example, an entity that issues life insuranc e contracts shall not rely solely on 
national mortality statistics, but shall consider all ot her reasonable and supportable internal and 
external sources of information available without undue cost or  effort when developing unbiased 
estimates of probabilities for mortality scenarios for its insu rance contracts. In developing those 
probabilities, an entity shall give more weight to the more persuasive information. For example: 
(a) internal mortality statistics may be more persuasive than na tional mortality data if national data
is derived from a large population that is not representative o f the insured population. This
might be because, for example, the demographic characteristics of the insured population could
significantly differ from those of the national population, mea ning that an entity would need
to place more weight on the internal data and less weight on the national statistics.
(b) conversely, if the internal statistics are derived from a sm all population with characteristics
that are believed to be close to those of the national populati on, and the national statistics are
current, an entity shall place more weight on the national statistics.
B51 Estimated probabilities for non- market variables shall not contradict observable market variables. For 
example, estimated probabilities for future inflation rate scen arios shall be as consistent a s possible 
with probabilities implied by market interest rates.
B52 In some cases, an entity may conclude that market variables vary independently of non- market 
variables. If so, the entity shall consider scenarios that refl ect the range of outcomes for the non-
market variables, with each scenario using the same observed value of the market variable.
B53 In other cases, market variables and non- market variables may be correlated. For example, there may 
be evidence that lapse rates (a non-market variable) ar e correlated with interest rates (a market 
variable). Similarly, there may be evidence that claim levels for house or car insurance are correlated 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    43A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
with economic cycles and therefore with interest rates and expe nse amounts. The entity shall ensure 
that the probabilities for the scenarios and the risk adjustmen ts for the non- financial risk that relates 
to the market variables are consistent with the observed market  prices that depend on those market 
variables.
Using current estimates (paragraph 33(c))
B54 In estimating each cash flow scenario and its probability, a n entity shall use all reasonable and 
supportable information available without undue cost or effort.  An entity shall review the estimates 
that it made at the end of the previous reporting period and update them. In doing so, an entity shall 
consider whether: 
(a) the updated estimates faithfully represent the conditions at  the end of the reporting period.
(b) the changes in estimates faithfully represent the changes in  conditions during the period. For
example, suppose that estimates were at one end of a reasonable  range at the beginning of the
period. If the conditions have not changed, shifting the estimates to the other end of the range
at the end of the period would not faithfully represent what has happened during the period. If
an entity’s most recent estimates are different from its previous estimates, but conditions have
not changed, it shall assess whether the new probabilities assi gned to each scenario are
justified. In updating its estimates of those probabilities, the  entity shall consider both the
evidence that supported its previous estimates and all newly av ailable evidence, giving more
weight to the more persuasive evidence.
B55 The probability assigned to each scenario shall reflect the conditions at the end of the reporting period. 
Consequently, applying LKAS 10Events after the Reporting Period, an event occurring after the end 
of the reporting period that resolves an uncertainty that existed at the end of the reporting period does 
not provide evidence of the conditions that existed at that date. For example, there may be a 20 per 
cent probability at the end of the reporting period that a major storm will strike during the remaining 
six months of an insurance contract. After the end of the repor ting period but before the financial 
statements are authorised for issue, a major storm strikes. The  fulfilment cash flows under that 
contract shall not reflect the storm that, with hindsight, is k nown to have occurred. Instead, the cash 
flows included in the measurement include the 20 per cent probab ility apparent at the end of the 
reporting period (with disclosure applying LKAS 10 that a non-adjusting event occurred after the end 
of the reporting period).
B56 Current estimates of expected cash flows are not necessarily  identical to the most recent actual 
experience. For example, suppose that mortality experience in t he reporting period was 20 per cent 
worse than the previous mortality experience and previous expec tations of mortality experience. 
Several factors could have caused the sudden change in experience, including: 
(a) lasting changes in mortality;
(b) changes in the characteristics of the insured population (fo r example, changes in underwriting
or distribution, or selective lapses by policyholders in unusually good health);
(c) random fluctuations; or
(d) identifiable non-recurring causes.
B57 An entity shall investigate the reasons for the change in ex perience and develop new estimates of cash 
flows and probabilities in the light of the most recent experie nce, the earlier experience and other 
information. The result for the example in paragraph B56 would typically be that the expected present 
value of death benefits changes, but not by as much as 20 per cent. In the example in paragraph B56, 

<!-- page 44 -->

44A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
if mortality rates continue to be significantly higher than the  previous estimates for reasons that are 
expected to continue, the estimated probability assigned to the high-mortality scenarios will increase.
B58 Estimates of non-market variables shall include information about the current level of insured events 
and information about trends. For example, mortality rates have  consistently declined over long 
periods in many countries. The determination of the fulfilment cash flows reflects the probabilities 
that would be assigned to each possible trend scenario, taking account of all reasonable and 
supportable information available without undue cost or effort.
B59 Similarly, if cash flows allocated to a group of insurance c ontracts are sensitive to inflation, the 
determination of the fulfilment cash flows shall reflect curren t estimates of possible future inflation 
rates. Because inflation rates are likely to be correlated with  interest rates, the measurement of 
fulfilment cash flows shall reflect the probabilities for each inflation scenario in a way that is 
consistent with the probabilities implied by the market interes t rates used in estimating the discount 
rate (see paragraph B51).
B60 When estimating the cash flows, an entity shall take into ac count current expectations of future events 
that might affect those cash flows. The entity shall develop ca sh flow scenarios that reflect those 
future events, as well as unbiased estimates of the probability  of each scenario. However, an entity 
shall not take into account current expectations of future changes in legislation that would change or 
discharge the present obligation or create new obligations under the existing insurance contract until 
the change in legislation is substantively enacted.
Cash flows within the contract boundary (paragraph 34)
B61 Estimates of cash flows in a scenario shall include all cash  flows within the boundary of an existing 
contract and no other cash flows. An entity shall apply paragra ph 2 in determining the boundary of 
an existing contract.
B62 Many insurance contracts have features that enable policyhol ders to take actions that change the 
amount, timing, nature or uncertainty of the amounts they will receive. Such features include renewal 
options, surrender options, conve rsion options and options to s top paying premiums while still 
receiving benefits under the contracts. The measurement of a gr oup of insurance contracts shall 
reflect, on an expected value basis, the entity’s current estimates of how the policyholders in the group 
will exercise the options availab le, and the risk adjustment fo r non-financial risk shall reflect the 
entity’s current estimates of how the actual behaviour of the p olicyholders may differ from the 
expected behaviour. This requi rement to determine the expected value applies regardless of the 
number of contracts in a group; for example it applies even if the group comprises a single contract. 
Thus, the measurement of a group of insurance contracts shall n ot assume a 100 per cent probability 
that policyholders will: 
(a) surrender their contracts, if there is some probability that  some of the policyholders will not;
or
(b) continue their contracts, if there is some probability that some of the policyholders will not.
B63 When an issuer of an insurance contract is required by the co ntract to renew or otherwise continue 
the contract, it shall apply paragraph 34 to assess whether premiums and related cash flows that arise 
from the renewed contract are within the boundary of the original contract.
B64 Paragraph 34 refers to an entity’s practical ability to set a price at a future date (a renewal date) that 
fully reflects the risks in the contract from that date. An entity has that practical ability in the absence 
of constraints that prevent the entity from setting the same price it would for a new contract with the 
same characteristics as the existing contract issued on that da te, or if it can amend the benefits to be 
consistent with the price it will charge. Similarly, an entity has that practical ability to set a price 
when it can reprice an existing contract so that the price refl ects overall changes in the risks in a 
portfolio of insurance contracts, even if the price set for each individual policyholder does not reflect 

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    45A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
the change in risk for that specific policyholder. When assessi ng whether the entity has the practical 
ability to set a price that fully reflects the risks in the con tract or portfolio, it shall consider all the 
risks that it would consider when underwriting equivalent contr acts on the renewal date for the 
remaining service. In determining the estimates of future cash flows at the end of a reporting period, 
an entity shall reassess the boundary of an insurance contract to include the effect of changes in 
circumstances on the entity’s substantive rights and obligations.
B65 Cash flows within the boundary of an insurance contract are those that relate directly to the fulfilment 
of the contract, including cash flows for which the entity has discretion over the amount or timing. 
The cash flows within the boundary include: 
(a) premiums (including premium adjustments and instalment premi ums) from a policyholder and
any additional cash flows that result from those premiums.
(b) payments to (or on behalf o f) a policyholder, including claims that have already been reported
but have not yet been paid (ie reported claims), incurred claims for events that have occurred
but for which claims have not been reported and all future clai ms for which the entity has a
substantive obligation (see paragraph 34).
(c) payments to (or on behalf of) a policyholder that vary depend ing on returns on underlying
items.
(d) payments to (or on behalf of) a policyholder resulting from derivatives, for example, options
and guarantees embedded in the contract, to the extent that tho se options and guarantees are
not separated from the insurance contract (see paragraph 11(a)).
(e) an allocation of insurance acquisition cash flows attributab le to the portfolio to which the
contract belongs.
(f) claim handling costs (ie the costs the entity will incur in investigating, processing and resolving
claims under existing insurance contracts, including legal and loss-adjusters’ fees and internal
costs of investigating claims and processing claim payments).
(g) costs the entity will incur in providing contractual benefit s paid in kind.
(h) policy administration and maintenance costs, such as costs o f premium billing and handling
policy changes (for example, conversions and reinstatements). S uch costs also include
recurring commissions that are expected to be paid to intermedi aries if a particular
policyholder continues to pay the premiums within the boundary of the insurance contract.
(i) transaction-based taxes (such as premium taxes, value added taxes and goods and services
taxes) and levies (such as fire service levies and guarantee fund assessments) that arise directly
from existing insurance contracts, or that can be attributed to  them on a reasonable and
consistent basis.
(j) payments by the insurer in a fiduciary capacity to meet tax obligations incurred by the
policyholder, and related receipts.
(k) potential cash inflows from recoveries (such as salvage and subrogation) on future claims
covered by existing insurance contracts and, to the extent that  they do not qualify for
recognition as separate assets, potential cash inflows from recoveries on past claims.
(ka) costs the entity will incur:
(i) performing investment activity, to the extent the entity per forms that activity to enhance
benefits from insurance coverage for policyholders. Investment activities enhance
benefits from insurance coverage if the entity performs those a ctivities expecting to

<!-- page 46 -->

46A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
generate an investment return from which policyholders will benefit if an insured event 
occurs.
(ii) providing investment-return  service to policyholders of ins urance contracts without
direct participation features (see paragraph B119B).
(iii) providing investment-related service to policyholders of i nsurance contracts with direct
participation features.
(l) an allocation of fixed and var iable overheads (such as the c osts of accounting, human
resources, information technology and support, building depreci ation, rent, and maintenance
and utilities) directly attributable to fulfilling insurance contracts. Such overheads are allocated
to groups of contracts using methods that are systematic and ra tional, and are consistently
applied to all costs that have similar characteristics.
(m) any other costs specifically chargeable to the policyholder under the terms of the contract.
B66 The following cash flows shall not be included when estimati ng the cash flows that will arise as the 
entity fulfils an existing insurance contract: 
(a) investment returns. Investmen ts are recognised, measured and presented separately.
(b) cash flows (payments or receipts) that arise under reinsuran ce contracts held. Reinsurance
contracts held are recognised, measured and presented separately.
(c) cash flows that may arise from future insurance contracts, i e cash flows outside the boundary
of existing contracts (see paragraphs 34–35).
(d) cash flows relating to costs that cannot be directly attribu ted to the portfolio of insurance
contracts that contain the contract, such as some product development and training costs. Such
costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
(e) cash flows that arise from abnormal amounts of wasted labour  or other resources that are used
to fulfil the contract. Such costs are recognised in profit or loss when incurred.
(f) income tax payments and receipts the insurer does not pay or  receive in a fiduciary capacity or
that are not specifically chargeable to the policyholder under the terms of the contract.
(g) cash flows between different components of the reporting ent ity, such as policyholder funds
and shareholder funds, if those cash flows do not change the amount that will be paid to the
policyholders.
(h) cash flows arising from components separated from the insura nce contract and accounted for
using other applicable Standards (see paragraphs 10–13).
B66A Before the recognition of a group of insurance contracts, a n entity might be required to recognise an 
asset or liability for cash flows  related to the group of insur ance contracts other than insurance 
acquisition cash flows either because of the occurrence of the c a s h  f l o w s  o r  b e c a u s e  o f  t h e  
requirements of another SLFRS Standard. Cash flows are related to the group of insurance contracts 
if those cash flows would have been included in the fulfilment cash flows at the date of initial 
recognition of the group had they been paid or received after that date. To apply paragraph 38(c)(ii) 
an entity shall derecognise such an asset or liability to the e xtent that the asset or liability would not 
be recognised separately from the group of insurance contracts if the cash flow or the application of 
the SLFRS Standard occurred at the date of initial recognition of the group of insurance contracts.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    47A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
 
Contracts with cash flows that affect or are affected by cash flows to policyholders of 
other contracts 
B67 Some insurance contracts affect the cash flows to policyhol ders of other contracts by requiring:  
(a) the policyholder to share wi th policyholders of other contracts the returns on the same specified 
pool of underlying items; and 
(b) either:  
(i) the policyholder to bear a reduction in their share of the returns on the underlying items 
because of payments to policyholders of other contracts that share in that pool, including 
payments arising under guarantees made to policyholders of those other contracts; or 
(ii) policyholders of other contracts to bear a reduction in th eir share of returns on the 
underlying items because of payments to the policyholder, inclu ding payments arising 
from guarantees made to the policyholder. 
B68 Sometimes, such contracts will affect the cash flows to pol icyholders of contracts in other groups. 
The fulfilment cash flows of each group reflect the extent to w hich the contracts in the group cause 
the entity to be affected by expected cash flows, whether to po licyholders in that group or to 
policyholders in another group. Hence the fulfilment cash flows for a group:  
(a) include payments arising from the terms of existing contrac ts to policyholders of contracts in 
other groups, regardless of whether those payments are expected to be made to current or future 
policyholders; and 
(b) exclude payments to policyholders in the group that, applyi ng (a), have been included in the 
fulfilment cash flows of another group. 
B69 For example, to the extent that payments to policyholders i n one group are reduced from a share in 
the returns on underlying items of CU350 to CU250 because of payments of a guaranteed amount to 
policyholders in another  group, the fulfilment cash flows of th e first group would include the 
payments of CU100 (ie would be CU350) and the fulfilment cash f lows of the second group would 
exclude CU100 of the guaranteed amount. 
B70 Different practical approaches can be used to determine the  f u l f i l m e n t  c a s h  f l o w s  o f  g r o u p s  o f  
contracts that affect or are affected by cash flows to policyho lders of contracts in other groups. In 
some cases, an entity might be able to identify the change in the underlying items and resulting change 
in the cash flows only at a higher level of aggregation than the groups. In such cases, the entity shall 
allocate the effect of the change in the underlying items to ea ch group on a systematic and rational 
basis. 
B71 After all insurance contract services have been provided to  the contracts in a group, the fulfilment 
cash flows may still include payments expected to be made to cu rrent policyholders in other groups 
or future policyholders. An entity is not required to continue to allocate such fulfilment cash flows to 
specific groups but can instead recognise and measure a liability for such fulfilment cash flows arising 
from all groups. 
 
Discount rates (paragraph 36) 
B72 An entity shall use the following discount rates in applyin g SLFRS 17:  
(a) to measure the fulfilment cash flows —current discount rates applying paragraph 36; 

<!-- page 48 -->

48A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(b) to determine the interest to accrete on the contractual ser vice margin applying paragraph 44(b) 
for insurance contracts without direct participation features —discount rates determined at the 
date of initial recognition of a group of contracts, applying paragraph 36 to nominal cash flows 
that do not vary based on the returns on any underlying items; 
(c) to measure the changes to the contractual service margin applyi ng paragraphs B96(a)‒B96(b) 
and B96(d) for insurance contrac ts without direct participation  f e a t u r e s—discount rates 
applying paragraph 36 determined on initial recognition; 
(d) for groups of contracts applying the premium allocation app roach that have a significant 
financing component, to adjust the carrying amount of the liabi lity for remaining coverage 
applying paragraph 56 —discount rates applying paragraph 36 determined on initial 
recognition; 
(e) if an entity chooses to disaggregate insurance finance inco me or expenses between profit or 
loss and other comprehensive inc ome (see paragraph 88), to dete rmine the amount of the 
insurance finance income or expenses included in profit or loss:  
(i) for groups of insurance contracts for which changes in assu mptions that relate to 
financial risk do not have a substantial effect on the amounts paid to policyholders, 
applying paragraph B131 —discount rates determined at the date of initial recognition 
of a group of contracts, applying paragraph 36 to nominal cash flows that do not vary 
based on the returns on any underlying items; 
(ii) for groups of insurance contracts for which changes in ass umptions that relate to 
financial risk have a substantial effect on the amounts paid to  policyholders, applying 
paragraph B132(a)(i) —discount rates that allocate the remaining revised expected 
finance income or expenses over the remaining duration of the g roup of contracts at a 
constant rate; and 
(iii) for groups of contracts applying the premium allocation a pproach applying paragraphs 
59(b) and B133—discount rates determined at the date of the incurred claim, ap plying 
paragraph 36 to nominal cash flows that do not vary based on th e returns on any 
underlying items. 
B73 To determine the discount rates at the date of initial reco gnition of a group of contracts described in 
paragraphs B72(b)–B72(e), an entity may use weighted-average discount rates over the period that 
contracts in the group are issued, which applying paragraph 22 cannot exceed one year. 
B74 Estimates of discount rates shall be consistent with other estimates used to measure insurance 
contracts to avoid double counting or omissions; for example:  
(a) cash flows that do not vary based on the returns on any und erlying items shall be discounted 
at rates that do not reflect any such variability; 
(b) cash flows that vary based o n the returns on any financial underlying items shall be:  
(i) discounted using rates that reflect that variability; or 
(ii) adjusted for the effect of that variability and discounted  at a rate that reflects the 
adjustment made. 
(c) nominal cash flows (ie those that include the effect of inf lation) shall be discounted at rates 
that include the effect of inflation; and 
(d) real cash flows (ie those that exclude the effect of inflat ion) shall be discounted at rates that 
exclude the effect of inflation. 
B75 Paragraph B74(b) requires cash flows that vary based on the  returns on underlying items to be 
discounted using rates that reflect that variability, or to be adjusted for the effect of that variability 
and discounted at a rate that reflects the adjustment made. The  variability is a relevant factor 

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    49A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
regardless of whether it arises because of contractual terms or because the entity exercises discretion, 
and regardless of whether the entity holds the underlying items.
B76 Cash flows that vary with returns on underlying items with v ariable returns, but that are subject to a 
guarantee of a minimum return, do not vary solely based on the returns on the underlying items, even 
when the guaranteed amount is lower than the expected return on  the underlying items. Hence, an 
entity shall adjust the rate that reflects the variability of t he returns on the underlying items for the 
effect of the guarantee, even when the guaranteed amount is low er than the expected return on the 
underlying items.
B77 SLFRS 17 does not require an entity to divide estimated cash flows into those that vary based on the 
returns on underlying items and those that do not. If an entity does not divide the estimated cash flows 
in this way, the entity shall apply discount rates appropriate for the estimated cash flows as a whole; 
for example, using stochastic modelling techniques or risk-neutral measurement techniques.
B78 Discount rates shall include only relevant factors, ie facto rs that arise from the time value of money, 
the characteristics of the cash flows and the liquidity charact eristics of the insurance contracts. Such 
discount rates may not be directly observable in the market. Hence, when observable market rates for 
an instrument with the same characteristics are not available, or observable market rates for similar 
instruments are available but do not separately identify the fa ctors that distinguish the instrument 
from the insurance contracts, an entity shall estimate the appropriate rates. SLFRS 17 does not require 
a particular estimation technique for determining discount rates. In applying an estimation technique, 
an entity shall:
(a) maximise the use of observable inputs (see paragraph B44) and  reflect all reasonable and
supportable information on non-market variables available witho ut undue cost or effort, both
external and internal (see parag raph B49). In particular, the discount rates used shall not
contradict any available and relevant market data, and any non-market variables used shall not
contradict observable market variables.
(b) reflect current market conditions from the perspective of a market participant.
(c) exercise judgement to assess the degree of similarity betwee n the features of the insurance
contracts being measured and the features of the instrument for which observable market prices
are available and adjust those prices to reflect the differences between them.
B79 For cash flows of insurance contracts that do not vary based  on the returns on underlying items, the 
discount rate reflects the yield curve in the appropriate currency for instruments that expose the holder 
to no or negligible credit risk, adjusted to reflect the liquidity characteristics of the group of insurance 
contracts. That adjustment shall reflect the difference between  the liquidity characteristics of the 
group of insurance contracts and the liquidity characteristics of the assets used to determine the yield 
curve. Yield curves reflect assets traded in active markets tha t the holder can typically sell readily at 
any time without incurring significant costs. In contrast, unde r some insurance contracts the entity 
cannot be forced to make payments earlier than the occurrence of insured events, or dates specified 
in the contracts.
B80 Hence, for cash flows of insurance contracts that do not var y based on the returns on underlying items, 
an entity may determine discount rates by adjusting a liquid ri sk-free yield curve to reflect the 
differences between the liquidity characteristics of the financ ial instruments that underlie the rates 
observed in the market and the liquidity characteristics of the  insurance contracts (a bottom-up 
approach).
B81 Alternatively, an entity may determine the appropriate disco unt rates for insurance contracts based 
on a yield curve that reflects the current market rates of retu rn implicit in a fair value measurement 

<!-- page 50 -->

50A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
of a reference portfolio of assets (a top-down approach). An en tity shall adjust that yield curve to 
eliminate any factors that are not relevant to the insurance co ntracts, but is not required to adjust the 
yield curve for differences in liquidity characteristics of the  insurance contracts and the reference 
portfolio. 
B82 In estimating the yield curve described in paragraph B81:  
(a) if there are observable market prices in active markets for  assets in the reference portfolio, an 
entity shall use those prices (consistent with paragraph 69 of SLFRS 13). 
(b) if a market is not active, an entity shall adjust observabl e market prices for similar assets to 
make them comparable to market prices for the assets being meas ured (consistent with 
paragraph 83 of SLFRS 13). 
(c) if there is no market for assets in the reference portfolio , an entity shall apply an estimation 
technique. For such assets (consistent with paragraph 89 of SLFRS 13) an entity shall:  
(i) develop unobservable inputs using the best information avai lable in the 
circumstances. Such inputs might include the entity’s own data and, in the context of 
SLFRS 17, the entity might place more weight on long-term estimates than on short-
term fluctuations; and 
(ii) adjust those data to reflect all information about market participant assumptions that 
is reasonably available. 
B83 In adjusting the yield curve, an entity shall adjust market  rates observed in recent transactions in 
instruments with similar characteristics for movements in marke t factors since the transaction date, 
and shall adjust observed market rates to reflect the degree of  dissimilarity between the instrument 
being measured and the instrument for which transaction prices are observable. For cash flows of 
insurance contracts that do not vary based on the returns on the assets in the reference portfolio, such 
adjustments include: 
(a) adjusting for differences between the amount, timing and un certainty of the cash flows of the 
assets in the portfolio and the amount, timing and uncertainty of the cash flows of the insurance 
contracts; and 
(b) excluding market risk premiums for credit risk, which are r elevant only to the assets included 
in the reference portfolio. 
B84 In principle, for cash flows of insurance contracts that do  not vary based on the returns of the assets 
in the reference portfolio, there should be a single illiquid r isk-free yield curve that eliminates all 
uncertainty about the amount and timing of cash flows. However, in practice the top-down approach 
and the bottom-up approach may result in different yield curves , even in the same currency. This is 
because of the inherent limitations in estimating the adjustments made under each approach, and the 
possible lack of an adjustment for different liquidity characte ristics in the top-down approach. An 
entity is not required to reconcile the discount rate determine d under its chosen approach with the 
discount rate that would have been determined under the other approach. 
B85 SLFRS 17 does not specify restrictions on the reference por tfolio of assets used in applying 
paragraph B81. However, fewer adjustments would be required to eliminate factors that are not 
relevant to the insurance contrac ts when the reference portfoli o of assets has similar characteristics. 
For example, if the cash flows from the insurance contracts do not vary based on the returns on 
underlying items, fewer adjustments would be required if an entity used debt instruments as a starting 
point rather than equity instruments. For debt instruments, the  objective would be to eliminate from 
the total bond yield the effect of credit risk and other factor s that are not relevant to the insurance 
contracts. One way to estimate the effect of credit risk is to use the market price of a credit derivative 
as a reference point. 
 

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    51A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk (paragraph 37) 
B86 The risk adjustment for non-financial risk relates to risk arising from insurance contracts other than 
financial risk. Financial risk is included in the estimates of the future cash flows or the discount rate 
used to adjust the cash flows. The risks covered by the risk ad justment for non-financial risk are 
insurance risk and other non-financial risks such as lapse risk and expense risk (see paragraph B14). 
B87 The risk adjustment for non-financial risk for insurance co ntracts measures the compensation that the 
entity would require to make the entity indifferent between:  
(a) fulfilling a liability that has a range of possible outcome s arising from non-financial risk; and 
(b) fulfilling a liability that will generate fixed cash flows with the same expected present value as 
the insurance contracts. 
For example, the risk adjustment for non-financial risk would m easure the compensation the entity 
would require to make it indifferent between fulfilling a liabi lity that —because of non-financial 
risk—has a 50 per cent probability of being CU90 and a 50 per cent probability of being CU110, and 
fulfilling a liability that is fixed at CU100. As a result, the  risk adjustment for non-financial risk 
conveys information to users of financial statements about the amount charged by the entity for the 
uncertainty arising from non-financial risk about the amount and timing of cash flows. 
B88 Because the risk adjustment for non-financial risk reflects  the compensation the entity would require 
for bearing the non-financial risk arising from the uncertain amount and timing of the cash flows, the 
risk adjustment for non-financial risk also reflects:  
(a) the degree of diversification benefit the entity includes w hen determining the compensation it 
requires for bearing that risk; and 
(b) both favourable and unfavourable outcomes, in a way that reflects the entity’s degr ee of risk 
aversion. 
B89 The purpose of the risk adjustment for non-financial risk i s to measure the effect of uncertainty in the 
cash flows that arise from insurance contracts, other than unce rtainty arising from financial risk. 
Consequently, the risk adjustment for non-financial risk shall reflect all non-financial risks associated 
with the insurance contracts. It shall not reflect the risks that do not arise from the insurance contracts, 
such as general operational risk. 
B90 The risk adjustment for non-financial risk shall be include d in the measurement in an explicit way. 
The risk adjustment for non-financial risk is conceptually sepa rate from the estimates of future cash 
flows and the discount rates that adjust those cash flows. The entity shall not double-count the risk 
adjustment for non-financial risk by, for example, also including the risk adjustment for non-financial 
risk implicitly when determining the estimates of future cash flows or the discount rates. The discount 
rates that are disclosed to comply with paragraph 120 shall not  include any implicit adjustments for 
non-financial risk. 
B91 SLFRS 17 does not specify the estimation technique(s) used to determine the risk adjustment for non-
financial risk. However, to reflect the compensation the entity  would require for bearing the non-
financial risk, the risk adjustment for non-financial risk shall have the following characteristics:  
(a) risks with low frequency and high severity will result in h igher risk adjustments for non-
financial risk than risks with high frequency and low severity; 
(b) for similar risks, contracts with a longer duration will re sult in higher risk adjustments for non-
financial risk than contracts with a shorter duration; 

<!-- page 52 -->

52A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(c) risks with a wider probability distribution will result in higher risk adjustments for non-
financial risk than risks with a narrower distribution; 
(d) the less that is known about the current estimate and its t rend, the higher will be the risk 
adjustment for non-financial risk; and 
(e) to the extent that emerging experience reduces uncertainty about the amount and timing of 
cash flows, risk adjustments for non-financial risk will decrease and vice versa. 
B92 An entity shall apply judgement when determining an appropr iate estimation technique for the risk 
adjustment for non-financial risk. When applying that judgement , an entity shall also consider 
whether the technique provides concise and informative disclosu re so that users of financial 
statements can benchmark the entity’s performance against the performan ce of other entities. 
Paragraph 119 requires an entity that uses a technique other th an the confidence level technique for 
determining the risk adjustment for non-financial risk to discl ose the technique used and the 
confidence level corresponding to the results of that technique. 
 
Initial recognition of transfers of insurance contracts and business 
combinations (paragraph 39) 
B93 When an entity acquires insurance contracts issued or reins urance contracts held in a transfer of 
insurance contracts that do not form a business or in a busines s combination within the scope of 
SLFRS 3, the entity shall apply paragraphs 14–24 to identify the groups of contracts acquired, as if it 
had entered into the contracts on the date of the transaction. 
B94 An entity shall use the consideration received or paid for the contracts as a proxy for the premiums 
received. The consideration received or paid for the contracts excludes the consideration received or 
paid for any other assets and liabilities acquired in the same transaction. In a business combination 
within the scope of SLFRS 3, the consideration received or paid  is the fair value of the contracts at 
that date. In determining that fair value, an entity shall not apply paragraph 47 of SLFRS 13 (relating 
to demand features). 
B95 Unless the premium allocation approach for the liability fo r remaining coverage in paragraphs 55–59 
and 69 –70A applies, on initial recognition the contractual service mar gin is calculated applying 
paragraph 38 for acquired insurance contracts issued and paragr aph 65 for acquired reinsurance 
contracts held using the consideration received or paid for the  contracts as a proxy for the premiums 
received or paid at the date of initial recognition. 
B95A If acquired insurance contracts issued are onerous, applyi ng paragraph 47, the entity shall recognise 
the excess of the fulfilment cash flows over the consideration paid or received as part of goodwill or 
gain on a bargain purchase for contracts acquired in a business  combination within the scope of 
SLFRS 3, or as a loss in profit or loss for contracts acquired in a transfer. The entity shall establish a 
loss component of the liability for remaining coverage for that  excess, and apply paragraphs 49 –52 
to allocate subsequent changes in fulfilment cash flows to that loss component. 
B95B For a group of reinsurance contracts held to which paragra phs 66A –66B apply, an entity shall 
determine the loss-recovery component of the asset for remainin g coverage at the date of the 
transaction by multiplying: 
(a) the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage of the underlying insurance 
contracts at the date of the transaction; and 
(b) the percentage of claims on the underlying insurance contracts the entity expects at the date 
of the transaction to recover from the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
B95C The entity shall recognise the amount of the loss-recovery  component determined applying paragraph 
B95B as part of goodwill or gain on a bargain purchase for rein surance contracts held acquired in a 

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    53A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3, or as income in profit or loss for contracts 
acquired in a transfer. 
B95D Applying paragraphs 14‒22, at the date of the transaction an entity might include in an onerous group 
of insurance contracts both onerous insurance contracts covered by a group of reinsurance contracts 
held and onerous contracts not covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. To apply paragraph 
B95B in such cases, an entity shall use a systematic and ration al basis of allocation to determine the 
portion of the loss component of the group of insurance contrac ts that relates to insurance contracts 
covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
Asset for insurance acquisition cash flows 
B95E When an entity acquires insurance contracts issued in a tr ansfer of insurance contracts that do not 
form a business or in a business combination within the scope of SLFRS 3, the entity shall recognise 
an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows at fair value at the date of the transaction for the rights 
to obtain: 
(a) future insurance contracts that are renewals of insurance c ontracts recognised at the date of 
the transaction; and 
(b) future insurance contracts, other than those in (a), after the date of the transaction without 
paying again insurance acquisition cash flows the acquiree has already paid that are directly 
attributable to the related portfolio of insurance contracts. 
B95F At the date of the transaction, the amount of any asset fo r insurance acquisition cash flows shall not 
be included in the measurement of the acquired group of insuran ce contracts applying paragraphs 
B93‒B95A. 
Changes in the carrying amount of the contractual service margin for 
insurance contracts without direct participation features (paragraph 44) 
B96 For insurance contracts without direct participation featur es, paragraph 44(c) requires an adjustment 
to the contractual service margin of a group of insurance contr acts for changes in fulfilment cash 
flows that relate to future service. These changes comprise: 
(a) experience adjustments arising from premiums received in th e period that relate to future 
service, and related cash flows such  as insurance acquisition c ash flows and premium-based 
taxes, measured at the discount rates specified in paragraph B72(c).  
(b) changes in estimates of the present value of the future cas h flows in the liability for remaining 
coverage, except those described in paragraph B97(a), measured at the discount rates specified 
in paragraph B72(c).  
(c) differences between any investment component expected to be come payable in the period and 
the actual investment component that becomes payable in the per iod. Those differences are 
determined by comparing (i) the actual investment component tha t becomes payable in the 
period with (ii) the payment in the period that was expected at  the start of the period plus any 
insurance finance income or expenses related to that expected p ayment before it becomes 
payable.  
(ca) differences between any loan to a policyholder expected to  become repayable in the period and 
the actual loan to a policyholder that becomes repayable in the  period. Those differences are 
determined by comparing (i) the actual loan to a policyholder t hat becomes repayable in the 

<!-- page 54 -->

54A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
period with (ii) the repayment in the period that was expected at the start of the period plus any 
insurance finance income or expenses related to that expected r epayment before it becomes 
repayable. 
(d) changes in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk that relate to future service. An entity is 
not required to disaggregate the change in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk between 
(i)  a change related to non-financial risk and (ii) the effect  of the time value of money and 
 changes in the time value of money. If an entity makes such a disaggregation, it shall 
 adjust the contractual service margin for the change related t o non-financial risk, 
 measured at the discount rates specified in paragraph B72(c).  
B97 An entity shall not adjust the contractual service margin f or a group of insurance contracts without 
direct participation features for the following changes in fulf ilment cash flows because they do not 
relate to future service: 
(a) the effect of the time value of money and changes in the ti me value of money and the effect of 
financial risk and changes in financial risk. These effects comprise: 
(i) the effect, if any, on estimated future cash flows;  
(ii) the effect, if disaggregated, on the risk adjustment for n on-financial risk; and 
(iii) the effect of a change in discount rate. 
(b) changes in estimates of fulfilment cash flows in the liabil ity for incurred claims.  
(c) experience adjustments, excep t those described in paragraph B96(a).  
B98 The terms of some insurance c ontracts without direct participation features give an entity discretion 
over the cash flows to be paid to policyholders. A change in the discretionary cash flows is regarded 
as relating to future service, and accordingly adjusts the cont ractual service margin. To determine 
how to identify a change in discretionary cash flows, an entity shall specify at inception of the contract 
the basis on which it expects to determine its commitment under  the contract; for example, based on 
a fixed interest rate, or on returns that vary based on specified asset returns. 
B99 An entity shall use that sp ecification to distinguish between the effect of changes in assumptions that relate 
to financial risk on that commitment (which do not adjust the contractual service margin) and the effect of 
discretionary changes to that commitment (which adjust the contractual service margin). 
B100 If an entity cannot specify at inception of the contract w hat it regards as its commitment under the contract 
and what it regards as discretionary, it shall regard its commitment to be the return implicit in the estimate 
of the fulfilment cash flows at inception of the contract, upda ted to reflect current assumptions that relate 
to financial risk. 
 
Changes in the carrying amount of the contractual service margin for 
insurance contracts with direct participation features (paragraph 45) 
B101 Insurance contracts with direct participation features are  insurance contracts that are substantially 
investment̻related service contracts under which an entity promises an inv estment return based on 
underlying items. Hence, they are defined as insurance contracts for which:  
(a) the contractual terms specify that the policyholder partici pates in a share of a clearly identified 
pool of underlying items (see paragraphs B105–B106); 
(b) the entity expects to pay to the policyholder an amount equ al to a substantial share of the fair 
value returns on the underlying items (see paragraph B107); and 
(c) the entity expects a substantial proportion of any change i n the amounts to be paid to the 
policyholder to vary with the change in fair value of the underlying items (see 
paragraph B107). 

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    55A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
B102 An entity shall assess whether the conditions in paragraph  B101 are met using its expectations at 
inception of the contract and shall not reassess the conditions  afterwards, unless the contract is 
modified, applying paragraph 72. 
B103 To the extent that insurance contracts in a group affect t he cash flows to policyholders of contracts in 
other groups (see paragraphs B67 –B71), an entity shall assess whether the conditions in 
paragraph B101 are met by considering the cash flows that the entity expects to pay the policyholders 
determined applying paragraphs B68–B70. 
B104 The conditions in paragraph B101 ensure that insurance con tracts with direct participation features 
are contracts under which the entity’s obligation to the policyholder is the net of:  
(a) the obligation to pay the po licyholder an amount equal to the fair value of the underlying items; 
and 
(b) a variable fee (see paragraphs B110 –B118) that the entity will deduct from (a) in exchange for 
the future service provided by the insurance contract, comprising:  
(i) the amount of the entity’s share of the fair value of the underlying items; less 
(ii) fulfilment cash flows that do not vary based on the return s on underlying items. 
B105 A share referred to in paragraph B101(a) does not preclude the existence of the entity’s discretion to 
vary the amounts paid to the policyholder. However, the link to  the underlying items must be 
enforceable (see paragraph 2). 
B106 The pool of underlying items referred to in paragraph B101 (a) can comprise any items, for example 
a reference portfolio of assets, the net assets of the entity, or a specified subset of the net assets of the 
entity, as long as they are clearly identified by the contract.  An entity need not hold the identified 
pool of underlying items. However, a clearly identified pool of underlying items does not exist when:  
(a) an entity can cha nge the underlying items that determine the amount of the entity’s obligation 
with retrospective effect; or 
(b) there are no underlying items identified, even if the polic yholder could be provided with a 
return that generally reflects the entity’s overall performance and expectations, or the 
performance and expectations of a subset of ass ets the entity h olds. An exam ple of such a  
return is a crediting rate or dividend payment set at the end of the period to which it relates. In 
this case, the obligation to the policyholder reflects the crediting rate or dividend amounts the 
entity has set, and does not reflect identified underlying items. 
B107 Paragraph B101(b) requires that the entity expects a substantial share of the fair value returns on the 
underlying items will be paid to  the policyholder and paragraph  B101(c) requires that the entity 
expects a substantial proportion of any change in the amounts t o be paid to the policyholder to vary 
with the change in fair value of the underlying items. An entity shall:  
(a) interpret the term ‘substantial’ in both paragraphs in the cont ext of the objective of insurance 
contracts with direct participation features being contracts un der which the entity provides 
investment‑related services and is compensated for the services by a fee that is determined by 
reference to the underlying items; and 
(b) assess the variability in the  amounts in paragraphs B101(b) and B101(c): 
(i) over the duration of the insurance contract; and 
(ii) on a present value probability-weighted average basis, not  a best or worst outcome basis 
(see paragraphs B37–B38). 

<!-- page 56 -->

56A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
B108 For example, if the entity expects to pay a substantial sh are of the fair value returns on underlying 
items, subject to a guarantee of a minimum return, there will be scenarios in which:  
(a) the cash flows that the entity expects to pay to the policy holder vary with the changes in the 
fair value of the underlying items because the guaranteed retur n and other cash flows that do 
not vary based on the returns on underlying items do not exceed  the fair value return on the 
underlying items; and 
(b) the cash flows that the entity expects to pay to the policy holder do not vary with the changes 
in the fair value of the underlying items because the guarantee d return and other cash flows 
that do not vary based on the returns on underlying items excee d the fair value return on the 
underlying items. 
The entity’s assessment of the variability in paragraph B101(c) for this example will reflect a present 
value probability‑weighted average of all these scenarios. 
B109 Reinsurance contracts issued and reinsurance contracts hel d cannot be insurance contracts with direct 
participation features for the purposes of SLFRS 17.  
B110 For insurance contracts with direct participation features , the contractual service margin is adjusted 
to reflect the variable nature of the fee. Hence, changes in the amounts set out in paragraph B104 are 
treated as set out in paragraphs B111–B114. 
B111 Changes in the obligation to pay the policyholder an amoun t equal to the fair value of the underlying 
items (paragraph B104(a)) do not relate to future service and d o not adjust the contractual service 
margin. 
B112 Changes in the amount of the entity’s share of the fair value o f the underlying items 
(paragraph B104(b)(i)) relate to future service and adjust the contractual service margin, applying 
paragraph 45(b). 
B113 Changes in the fulfilment cash flows that do not vary base d on the returns on underlying items 
(paragraph B104(b)(ii)) comprise: 
(a) changes in the fulfilment cash flows other than those speci fied in (b). An entity shall apply 
paragraphs B96–B97, consistent with insurance contracts without direct participation features, 
to determine to what extent they relate to future service and, applying paragraph 45(c), adjust 
the contractual service margin. All the adjustments are measured using current discount rates. 
(b) the change in the effect of the time value of money and fin ancial risks not arising from the 
underlying items; for example, the effect of financial guarantees. These relate to future service 
and, applying paragraph 45(c), adjust the contractual service m argin, except to the extent that 
paragraph B115 applies. 
B114 An entity is not required to identify the adjustments to t he contractual service margin required by 
paragraphs B112 and B113 separately. Instead, a combined amount  may be determined for some or 
all of the adjustments. 
Risk mitigation 
B115 To the extent that an entity meets the conditions in parag raph B116, it may choose not to recognise a 
change in the contractual service margin to reflect some or all of the changes in the effect of the time 
value of money and financial risk on: 
(a) the amount of the entity’s share of the underlying items (see p aragraph B112) if the entity 
mitigates the effect of financial risk on that amount using der ivatives or reinsurance contracts 
held; and 

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    57A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(b) the fulfilment cash flows set out in paragraph B113(b) if t he entity mitigates the effect of 
financial risk on those fulfilment cash flows using derivatives , non-derivative financial 
instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss, or reinsurance contracts held. 
B116 To apply paragraph B115, an entity must have a previously documented risk-management objective 
and strategy for mitigating financial risk as described in para graph B115. In applying that objective 
and strategy:  
(a) an economic offset exists bet ween the insurance contracts a nd the derivative, non-derivative 
financial instrument measured at fair value through profit or loss, or reinsurance contract held 
(ie the values of the insurance contracts and those risk mitiga ting items generally move in 
opposite directions because they respond in a similar way to th e changes in the risk being 
mitigated). An entity shall not consider accounting measurement  differences in assessing the 
economic offset. 
(b) credit risk does not dominate the economic offset. 
B117 The entity shall determine the fulfilment cash flows in a group to which paragraph B115 applies in a 
consistent manner in each reporting period. 
B117A If the entity mitigates the effect of financial risk usin g derivatives or non-derivative financial 
instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss, it shall include insurance finance income or 
expenses for the period arising from the application of paragra ph B115 in profit or loss. If the entity 
mitigates the effect of financial risk using reinsurance contra cts held, it shall apply the same 
accounting policy for the presentation of insurance finance inc ome or expenses arising from the 
application of paragraph B115 as the entity applies to the rein surance contracts held applying 
paragraphs 88 and 90. 
B118 If, and only if, any of th e conditions in paragraph B116 cease to be met an entity shall cease to apply 
paragraph B115 from that date. An entity shall not make any adj ustment for changes previously 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Recognition of the contractual service margin in profit or loss 
B119 An amount of the contractual service margin for a group of  insurance contracts is recognised in profit 
or loss in each period to reflect the insurance contract services provided under the group of insurance 
contracts in that period (see paragraphs 44(e), 45(e) and 66(e)). The amount is determined by:  
(a) identifying the coverage units in the group. The number of coverage units in a group is the 
quantity of insurance contract services provided by the contrac ts in the group, determined by 
considering for each contract the quantity of the benefits prov ided under a contract and its 
expected coverage period. 
(b) allocating the contractual service margin at the end of the  period (before recognising any 
amounts in profit or loss to reflect the insurance contract ser vices provided in the period) 
equally to each coverage unit provided in the current period and expected to be provided in the 
future. 
(c) recognising in profit or loss the amount allocated to cover age units provided in the period. 
B119A To apply paragraph B119, the period of investment-return service or investment-related service ends 
at or before the date that all amounts due to current policyholders relating to those services have been 
paid, without considering payments to future policyholders incl uded in the fulfilment cash flows 
applying paragraph B68. 

<!-- page 58 -->

58A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
B119B Insurance contracts without direct participation features  may provide an investment-return service if, 
and only if: 
(a) an investment component ex ists, or the policyholder has a right to withdraw an amount; 
(b) the entity expects the investment component or amount the p olicyholder has a right to 
withdraw to include an investment return (an investment return could be below zero, for 
example, in a negative interest rate environment); and 
(c) the entity expects to perform investment activity to genera te that investment return. 
 
Reinsurance contracts held—recognition of recovery of losses on underlying 
insurance contracts (paragraphs 66A−66B) 
B119C Paragraph 66A applies if, and only if, the reinsurance co ntract held is entered into before or at the 
same time as the onerous underlying insurance contracts are recognised. 
B119D To apply paragraph 66A, an entity shall determine the adj ustment to the contractual service margin 
of a group of reinsurance contracts held and the resulting income by multiplying: 
(a) the loss recognised on the underlying insurance contracts; and 
(b) the percentage of claims on the underlying insurance contra cts the entity expects to recover 
from the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
B119E Applying paragraphs 14‒22, an entity might include in an onerous group of insurance contracts both 
onerous insurance contracts covered by a group of reinsurance c ontracts held and onerous insurance 
contracts not covered by the group of reinsurance contracts hel d. To apply paragraphs 66(c)(i)‒(ii) 
and paragraph 66A in such cases, the entity shall apply a systematic and rational method of allocation 
to determine the portion of losses recognised on the group of i nsurance contracts that relates to 
insurance contracts covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
B119F After an entity has established a loss-recovery component  applying paragraph 66B, the entity shall 
adjust the loss-recovery component to reflect changes in the lo ss component of an onerous group of 
underlying insurance contracts (see paragraphs 50 –52). The carrying amount of the loss-recovery 
component shall not exceed the portion of the carrying amount of the loss component of the onerous 
group of underlying insurance contracts that the entity expects  t o  r e c o v e r  f r o m  t h e  g r o u p  o f  
reinsurance contracts held. 
Insurance revenue (paragraphs 83 and 85) 
B120 The total insurance revenue for a group of insurance contr acts is the consideration for the contracts, 
ie the amount of premiums paid to the entity:  
(a) adjusted for a financing effect; and 
(b) excluding any inves tment components.  
 
B121 Paragraph 83 requires the amount of insurance revenue reco gnised in a period to depict the transfer 
of promised services at an amount that reflects the considerati on to which the entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for those services. The total consideratio n for a group of contracts covers the 
following amounts:  
(a) amounts related to the provisi on of services, comprising:  
(i) insurance service expenses, excluding any amounts relating to the risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk included in (ii) and any amounts allocated t o the loss component of 
the liability for remaining coverage; 

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    59A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(ia) amounts related to income tax  that are specifically chargeable to the policyholder; 
(ii) the risk adjustment for non-financial risk, excluding any amounts allocated to the loss 
component of the liability for remaining coverage; and 
(iii) the contractual service margin. 
(b) amounts related to insurance acquisition cash flows. 
 
B122 Insurance revenue for a p eriod relating to the amounts described in paragraph B121(a) is determined 
as set out in paragraphs B123–B124. Insurance revenue for a period relating to the amounts described 
in paragraph B121(b) is determined as set out in paragraph B125. 
B123 Applying SLFRS 15, when an entity provides services, it de recognises the performance obligation 
for those services and recognises revenue. Consistently, applying SLFRS 17, when an entity provides 
services in a period, it reduces the liability for remaining co verage for the services provided and 
recognises insurance revenue. The reduction in the liability fo r remaining coverage that gives rise to 
insurance revenue excludes changes in the liability that do not  relate to services expected to be 
covered by the consideration received by the entity. Those changes are:  
(a) changes that do not relate to services provided in the peri od, for example:  
(i) changes resulting from cash inflows from premiums received;  
(ii) changes that relate to investment components in the period ; 
(iia) changes resulting from cash flows from loans to policyhol ders; 
(iii) changes that relate to transaction-based taxes collected on behalf of third parties (such 
as premium taxes, value added taxes and goods and services taxe s) (see 
paragraph B65(i)); 
(iv) insurance finance income or expenses; 
(v) insurance acquisition cash flows (see paragraph B125); and 
(vi) derecognition of liabilities transferred to a third party.  
(b) changes that relate to services, but for which the entity d oes not expect consideration, ie 
increases and decreases in the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage (see 
paragraphs 47–52). 
B123A To the extent that an entity derecognises an asset for ca sh flows other than insurance acquisition cash 
flows at the date of initial recognition of a group of insurance contracts (see paragraphs 38(c)(ii) and 
B66A), it shall recognise insurance revenue and expenses for the amount derecognised at that date. 
B124 Consequently, insurance revenue for the period can also be  analysed as the total of the changes in the 
liability for remaining coverage in the period that relates to services for which the entity expects to 
receive consideration. Those changes are:  
(a) insurance service expenses incurred in the period (measured  at the amounts expected at the 
beginning of the period), excluding:  
(i) amounts allocated to the loss component of the liability fo r remaining coverage 
applying paragraph 51(a); 
(ii) repayments of investment components; 

<!-- page 60 -->

60A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(iii) amounts that relate to transaction-based taxes collected on behalf of third parties 
(such as premium taxes, value added taxes and goods and service s taxes) (see 
paragraph B65(i)); 
(iv) insurance acquisition expenses (see paragraph B125); and 
(v) the amount related to the risk adjustment for non-financial  risk (see (b)). 
(b) the change in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk, e xcluding:  
(i) changes included in insurance finance income or expenses ap plying paragraph 87; 
(ii) changes that adjust the contractual service margin because  they relate to future service 
applying paragraphs 44(c) and 45(c); and 
(iii) amounts allocated to the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage 
applying paragraph 51(b). 
(c) the amount of the contractual service margin recognised in profit or loss in the period, applying 
paragraphs 44(e) and 45(e). 
(d) other amounts, if any, for example, experience adjustments for premium receipts other than 
those that relate to future service (see paragraph B96(a)). 
 
B125 An entity shall determine insurance revenue related to ins urance acquisition cash flows by allocating 
the portion of the premiums that relate to recovering those cas h flows to each reporting period in a 
systematic way on the basis of the passage of time. An entity s hall recognise the same amount as 
insurance service expenses. 
B126 When an entity applies the premium allocation approach in paragraphs 55–58, insurance revenue for 
the period is the amount of expected premium receipts (excludin g any investment component and 
adjusted to reflect the time value of money and the effect of f inancial risk, if applicable, applying 
paragraph 56) allocated to the period. The entity shall allocate the expected premium receipts to each 
period of insurance contract services: 
(a) on the basis of the passage of time; but 
(b) if the expected pattern of release of risk during the cover age period differs significantly from 
the passage of time, then on the basis of the expected timing o f incurred insurance service 
expenses. 
B127 An entity shall change the basis of allocation between par agraphs B126(a) and B126(b) as necessary 
if facts and circumstances change. 
 
Insurance finance income or expenses (paragraphs 87–92) 
B128 Paragraph 87 requires an entity to include in insurance fi nance income or expenses the effect of the 
time value of money and financial risk and changes therein. For the purposes of SLFRS 17:  
(a) assumptions about inflation based on an index of prices or rates or on prices of assets with 
inflation-linked returns are assumptions that relate to financial risk; 
(b) assumptions about inflation based on an entity’s expectation of  specific price changes are not 
assumptions that relate to financial risk; and 
(c) changes in the measurement of a group of insurance contract s caused by changes in the value 
of underlying items (excluding additions and withdrawals) are changes arising from the effect 
of the time value of money and financial risk and changes therein. 
B129 Paragraphs 88 –89 require an entity to make an accounting policy choice as to whether to disaggregate 
insurance finance income or expenses for the period between profit or loss and other comprehensive 

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    61A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
income. An entity shall apply its choice of accounting policy t o portfolios of insurance contracts. In 
assessing the appropriate accounting policy for a portfolio of insurance contracts, applying 
paragraph 13 of LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors , the 
entity shall consider for each portfolio the assets that the en tity holds and how it accounts for those 
assets. 
B130 If paragraph 88(b) applies, an entity shall include in pro fit or loss an amount determined by a 
systematic allocation of the expected total finance income or expenses over the duration of the group 
of insurance contracts. In this context, a systematic allocatio n is an allocation of t he total expected 
finance income or expenses of a group of insurance contracts over the duration of the group that: 
(a) is based on characteristics of the contracts, without refer ence to factors that do not affect the 
cash flows expected to arise under the contracts. For example, the allocation of the finance 
income or expenses shall not be based on expected recognised re t u r n s  o n  a s s e t s  i f  t h o s e  
expected recognised returns do not affect the cash flows of the contracts in the group. 
(b) results in the amounts recognised in other comprehensive in come over the duration of the 
group of contracts totalling zero. The cumulative amount recogn ised in other comprehensive 
income at any date is the difference between the carrying amount of the group of contracts and 
the amount that the group would be measured at when applying the systematic allocation. 
B131 For groups of insurance contracts for which changes in ass umptions that relate to financial risk do 
not have a substantial effect on the amounts paid to the policy holder, the systematic allocation is 
determined using the discount rates specified in paragraph B72(e)(i). 
B132 For groups of insurance contracts for which changes in ass umptions that relate to financial risk have 
a substantial effect on the amounts paid to the policyholders:  
(a) a systematic allocation for the finance income or expenses arising from the estimates of future 
cash flows can be determined in one of the following ways:  
(i) using a rate that allocates the remaining revised expected finance income or expenses 
over the remaining duration of the group of contracts at a constant rate; or 
(ii) for contracts that use a crediting rate to determine amoun ts due to the policyholders —
using an allocation that is based on the amounts credited in th e period and expected to 
be credited in future periods. 
(b) a systematic allocation for the finance income or expenses arising from the risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk, if separately disaggregated from other chan ges in the risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk applying paragraph 81, is determined using an allocation consistent with that 
used for the allocation for the finance income or expenses arising from the future cash flows. 
(c) a systematic allocation for the finance income or expenses arising from the contractual service 
margin is determined:  
(i) for insurance contracts that do not have direct participati on features, using the discount 
rates specified in paragraph B72(b); and 
(ii) for insurance contracts with direct participation features , using an allocation consistent 
with that used for the allocation for the finance income or exp enses arising from the 
future cash flows. 
B133 In applying the premium allocation approach to insurance c ontracts described in paragraphs 53 –59, 
an entity may be required, or may choose, to discount the liability for incurred claims. In such cases, 
it may choose to disaggregate the insurance finance income or expenses applying paragraph 88(b). If 

<!-- page 62 -->

62A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
the entity makes this choice, it shall determine the insurance finance income or expenses in profit or 
loss using the discount rate specified in paragraph B72(e)(iii). 
B134 Paragraph 89 ap plies if an entity, either by choice or bec ause it is required to, holds the underlying 
items for insurance contracts with direct participation feature s. If an entity chooses to disaggregate 
insurance finance income or expenses applying paragraph 89(b), it shall include in profit or loss 
expenses or income that exactly match the income or expenses in cluded in profit or loss for the 
underlying items, resulting in the net of the separately presented items being nil.  
B135 An entity may qualify for the accounting policy choice in paragraph 89 in some periods but not in 
others because of a change in whether it holds the underlying i tems. If such a change occurs, the 
accounting policy choice available to the entity changes from t hat set out in paragraph 88 to that set 
out in paragraph 89, or vice versa. Hence, an entity might change its accounting policy between that 
set out in paragraph 88(b) and t hat set out in paragraph 89(b).  In making such a change an entity 
shall:  
(a) include the accumulated amount previously included in other  comprehensive income by the 
date of the change as a reclassification adjustment in profit or loss in the period of change and 
in future periods, as follows:  
(i) if the entity had previously applied paragraph 88(b) —the entity shall include in profit 
or loss the accumulated amount included in other comprehensive income before the 
change as if the entity were continuing the approach in paragra ph 88(b) based on the 
assumptions that applied immediately before the change; and 
(ii) if the entity had previously applied paragraph 89(b) —the entity shall include in profit 
or loss the accumulated amount included in other comprehensive income before the 
change as if the entity were continuing the approach in paragra ph 89(b) based on the 
assumptions that applied immediately before the change. 
(b) not restate prior period comparative information. 
B136 When applying paragraph B13 5(a), an entity shall not recalculate the accumulated amount previously 
included in other comprehensive income as if the new disaggrega tion had always applied; and the 
assumptions used for the reclassification in future periods sha ll not be updated after the date of the 
change 
 
The effect of accounting estimates made in interim financial statements 
 
B137 If an entity prepares interim financial statements applyin g LKAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting, the 
entity shall make an accounting policy choice as to whether to change the treatment of accounting 
estimates made in previous interim financial statements when ap plying SLFRS 17 in subsequent 
interim financial statements and in the annual reporting period . The entity shall apply its choice of 
accounting policy to all groups of insurance contracts it issues and groups of reinsurance contracts it 
holds 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    63A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Appendix C 
Effective date and transition 
This appendix is an integral part of SLFRS 17 Insurance Contracts. 
Effective date 
C1 An entity shall apply SLFRS 17 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025. If 
an entity applies SLFRS 17 earlier, it shall disclose that fact. Early application is permitted for entities 
that apply SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments on or before the date of initial application of SLFRS 17.  
C2 For the purposes of the transi tion requirements in paragraphs C1 and C3–C33: 
(a) the date of initial application is the beginning of the ann ual reporting period in which an 
entity first applies SLFRS 17; and 
(b) the transition date is the b eginning of the annual reporting period immediately preceding 
the date of initial application. 
 
Transition 
 
C3 Unless it is impracticable to do so, or paragraph C5A applie s, an entity shall apply SLFRS 17 
retrospectively, except that: 
(a) an entity is not required to present the quantitative infor mation required by paragraph 28(f) 
of LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors; and 
(b) an entity shall not apply th e option in paragraph B115 for periods before the transition date. 
An entity may apply the option in paragraph B115 prospectively on or after the transition 
date if, and only if, the entity designates risk mitigation relationships at or before the date it 
applies the option.  
C4 To apply SLFRS 17 retrospectively, an entity shall at the tr ansition date:  
(a) identify, recognise and measure each group of insurance con tracts as if SLFRS 17 had 
always applied;  
(aa) identify, recognise and measure any assets for insurance a cquisition cash flows as if SLFRS 
17 had always applied (except that an entity is not required to  apply the recoverability 
assessment in paragraph 28E before the transition date); 
(b) derecognise any existing balances that would not exist had SLFRS 17 always applied; and 
(c) recognise any resulting net difference in equity. 
C5 If, and only if, it is impracticable for an entity to apply paragraph C3 for a group of insurance 
contracts, an entity shall apply the following approaches instead of applying paragraph C4(a): 
(a) the modified retrospective approach in paragraphs C6 –C19A, subject to paragraph C6(a); or 
(b) the fair value appro ach in paragraphs C20–C24B. 
C5A Notwithstanding paragraph C5, an entity may choose to apply  the fair value approach in paragraphs 
C20–C24B for a group of insurance contracts with direct participation features to which it could apply 
SLFRS 17 retrospectively if, and only if: 

<!-- page 64 -->

64A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(a) the entity chooses to apply the risk mitigation option in p aragraph B115 to the group of 
insurance contracts prospectively from the transition date; and 
(b) the entity has used derivatives, non-derivative financial i nstruments measured at fair value 
through profit or loss, or reinsurance contracts held to mitiga te financial risk arising from 
the group of insurance contracts, as specified in paragraph B115, before the transition date. 
C5B If, and only if, it is impra cticable for an entity to apply  paragraph C4(aa) for an asset for insurance 
acquisition cash flows, the entity shall apply the following ap proaches to measure the asset for 
insurance acquisition cash flows: 
(a) the modified retrospective approach in paragraphs C14B –C14D and C17A, subject to 
paragraph C6(a); or 
(b) the fair value approach in paragraphs C24A –C24B 
 
Modified retrospective approach 
C6 The objective of the modified retrospective approach is to a chieve the closest outcome to retrospective 
application possible using reas onable and supportable informati on available without undue cost or 
effort. Accordingly, in applying this approach, an entity shall: 
(a) use reasonable and supportable information. If the entity c annot obtain reasonable and 
supportable information necessary to apply the modified retrosp ective approach, it shall 
apply the fair value approach. 
(b) maximise the use of information that would have been used t o apply a fully retrospective 
approach, but need only use information available without undue cost or effort. 
C7 Paragraphs C9 –C19A set out permitted modifications to retrospective applicati on in the following 
areas: 
(a) assessments of insurance contracts or groups of insurance c ontracts that would have been 
made at the date of inception or initial recognition; 
(b) amounts related to the contractual service margin or loss c omponent for insurance contracts 
without direct participation features; 
(c) amounts related to the contractual service margin or loss c omponent for insurance contracts 
with direct participation features; and 
(d) insurance finance income or expenses. 
C8 To achieve the objective of the modified retrospective appro ach, an entity is permitted to use each 
modification in paragraphs C9–C19A only to the extent that an entity does not have reasonable and 
supportable information to apply a retrospective approach. 
 
Assessments at inception or initial recognition 
C9 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall det ermine the following matters using 
information available at the transition date: 
(a) how to identify groups of in surance contracts, applying paragraphs 14–24; 
(b) whether an insurance contract meets the definition of an in surance contract with direct 
participation features, applying paragraphs B101–B109; 
(c) how to identify discretionary cash flows for insurance cont racts without direct participation 
features, applying paragraphs B98–B100; and 
(d) whether an investment contract meets the definition of an i nvestment contract with 
discretionary participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17, applying paragraph 71. 

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    65A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
C9A To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall cl assify as a liability for incurred claims a 
liability for settlement of claims incurred before an insurance  contract was acquired in a transfer of 
insurance contracts that do not form a business or in a busines s combination within the scope of 
SLFRS 3. 
C10 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall no t apply paragraph 22 to divide groups 
into those that do not include contracts issued more than one year apart. 
 
Determining the contractual service margin or loss component for groups of 
insurance contracts without direct participation features 
C11 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, for contracts with out direct participation features, an entity 
shall determine the contractual service margin or loss componen t of the liability for remaining 
coverage (see paragraphs 49–52) at the transition date by applying paragraphs C12–C16C. 
C12 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall es timate the future cash flows at the date of 
initial recognition of a group of insurance contracts as the am ount of the future cash flows at the 
transition date (or earlier date, if the future cash flows at t hat earlier date can be determined 
retrospectively, applying paragr aph C4(a)), adjusted by the cas h flows that are known to have 
occurred between the date of initial recognition of a group of insurance contracts and the transition 
date (or earlier date). The cash f lows that are known to have o ccurred include cash flows resulting 
from contracts that ceased to exist before the transition date. 
C13 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall de termine the discount rates that applied at 
the date of initial recognition of a group of insurance contracts (or subsequently): 
(a) using an observable yield curve that, for at least three ye ars immediately before the transition 
date, approximates the yield curve estimated applying paragraph s 36 and B72–B85, if such 
an observable yield curve exists. 
(b) if the observable yield curve in paragraph (a) does not exi st, estimate the discount rates that 
applied at the date of initial recognition (or subsequently) by determining an average spread 
between an observable yield curve and the yield curve estimated applying paragraphs 36 and 
B72–B85, and applying that spread to that observable yield curve. T hat spread shall be an 
average over at least three years immediately before the transition date. 
C14 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall de termine the risk adjustment for non-
financial risk at the date of initial recognition of a group of  insurance contracts (or subsequently) by 
adjusting the risk adjustment for non-financial risk at the tra nsition date by the expected release of 
risk before the transition date.  The expected release of risk s hall be determined by reference to the 
release of risk for similar insurance contracts that the entity issues at the transition date. 
C14A Applying paragraph B137, an entity may choose not to change the treatment of accounting estimates 
made in previous interim financial statements. To the extent pe rmitted by paragraph C8, such an 
entity shall determine the contractual service margin or loss component at the transition date as if the 
entity had not prepared interim financial statements before the transition date. 
C14B To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall use the same systematic and rational method 
the entity expects to use after the transition date when applyi ng paragraph 28A to allocate any 
insurance acquisition cash flows paid (or for which a liability  has been recognised applying another 
SLFRS Standard) before the transition date (excluding any amoun t relating to insurance contracts 
that ceased to exist before the transition date) to: 
(a) groups of insurance contracts that are recognised at the tr ansition date; and 

<!-- page 66 -->

66A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
(b) groups of insurance contract s that are expected to be recognised after the transition date. 
C14C Insurance acquisition cash flows paid before the transitio n date that are allocated to a group of 
insurance contracts recognised at the transition date adjust th e contractual service margin of that 
group, to the extent insurance contracts expected to be in the group have been recognised at that date 
(see paragraphs 28C and B35C). Oth er insurance acquisition cash  flows paid before the transition 
date, including those allocated to a group of insurance contrac ts expected to be recognised after the 
transition date, are recognised as an asset, applying paragraph 28B. 
C14D If an entity does not have reasonable and supportable info rmation to apply paragraph C14B, the entity 
shall determine the following amounts to be nil at the transition date: 
(a) the adjustment to the contractual service margin of a group  of insurance contracts recognised 
at the transition date and any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows relating to that group; 
and 
(b) the asset for insurance acquisition cash flows for groups o f insurance contracts expected to be 
recognised after the transition date. 
C15 If applying paragraphs C12 –C14D results in a contractual service margin at the date of ini tial 
recognition, to determine the contractual service margin at the date of transition an entity shall: 
(a) if the entity applies C13 to estimate the discount rates th at apply on initial recognition, use 
those rates to accrete interest on the contractual service margin; and 
(b) to the extent permitted by paragraph C8, determine the amou nt of the contractual service 
margin recognised in profit or loss because of the transfer of services before the transition date, 
by comparing the remaining coverage units at that date with the coverage units provided under 
the group of contracts before the transition date (see paragraph B119). 
C16 If applying paragraphs C12 –C14D results in a loss component of the liability for remaining coverage 
at the date of initial recognition, an entity shall determine any amounts allocated to the loss component 
before the transition date applying paragraphs C12–C14D and using a systematic basis of allocation. 
C16A For a group of reinsurance contracts held that provides co verage for an onerous group of insurance 
contracts and was entered into before or at the same time that the insurance contracts were issued, an 
entity shall establish a loss-recovery component of the asset f or remaining coverage at the transition 
date (see paragraphs 66A–66B). To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall determine 
the loss-recovery component by multiplying: 
(a) the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage for the underlying insurance 
contracts at the transition date (see paragraphs C16 and C20); and 
(b) the percentage of claims for the underlying insurance contr acts the entity expects to recover 
from the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
C16B Applying paragraphs 14‒22, at the transition date an entity mig ht include in an onerous group of 
insurance contracts both onerous insurance contracts covered by a group of reinsurance contracts held 
and onerous insurance contracts not covered by the group of rei nsurance contracts held. To apply 
paragraph C16A in such cases, an  entity shall use a systematic and rational basis of allocation to 
determine the portion of the loss component of the group of ins urance contracts that relates to 
insurance contracts covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
C16C If an entity does not have reasonable and supportable info rmation to apply paragraph C16A, the entity 
shall not identify a loss-recovery component for the group of reinsurance contracts held. 

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    67A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
Determining the contractual service margin or loss component for groups of 
insurance contracts with direct participation features 
C17 To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, for contracts with  direct participation features an entity 
shall determine the contractual service margin or loss componen t of the liability for remaining 
coverage at the transition date as: 
(a) the total fair value of the underlying items at that date; minus 
(b) the fulfilment cash flow s at that date; plus or minus 
(c) an adjustment for: 
(i) amounts charged by the entity to the policyholders (includi ng amounts deducted from 
the underlying items) before that date. 
(ii) amounts paid before that date that would not have varied b ased on the underlying items. 
(iii) the change in the risk adjustment for non-financial risk caused by the release from risk 
before that date. The entity shall estimate this amount by reference to the release of risk 
for similar insurance contracts that the entity issues at the transition date. 
(iv) insurance acquisition cash flows paid (or for which a liab ility has been recognised 
applying another SLFRS Standard) before the transition date tha t are allocated to the 
group (see paragraph C17A). 
(d) if (a) –(c) result in a contractual service margin —minus the amount of the contractual service 
margin that relates to services provided before that date. The total of (a)–(c) is a proxy for the 
total contractual service margin for all services to be provided under the group of contracts, ie 
before any amounts that would have been recognised in profit or  loss for services provided. 
The entity shall estimate the amounts that would have been reco gnised in profit or loss for 
services provided by comparing the remaining coverage units at the transition date with the 
coverage units provided under the group of contracts before the transition date; or 
(e) if (a) –(c) result in a loss component—adjust the loss component to nil and increase the liability 
for remaining coverage excluding the loss component by the same amount. 
C17A To the extent permitted by paragraph C8, an entity shall apply paragraphs C14B‒C14D to recognise 
an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows, and any adjustment to the contractual service margin of 
a group of insurance contracts with direct participation featur es for insurance acquisition cash flows 
(see paragraph C17(c)(iv)). 
 
Insurance finance income or expenses 
C18 For groups of insurance contracts that, applying paragraph C10, include contracts issued more than 
one year apart: 
(a) an entity is permitted to determine the discount rates at t he date of initial recognition of a group 
specified in paragraphs B72(b) –B72(e)(ii) and the discount rates at the date of the incurred 
claim specified in paragraph B72(e)(iii) at the transition date  instead of at the date of initial 
recognition or incurred claim. 
(b) if an entity chooses to disaggregate insurance finance inco me or expenses between amounts 
included in profit or loss and amounts included in other compre hensive income applying 
paragraphs 88(b) or 89(b), the entity needs to determine the cu mulative amount of insurance 
finance income or expenses recognised in other comprehensive in come at the transition date 

<!-- page 68 -->

68A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
to apply paragraph 91(a) in future periods. The entity is permitted to determine that cumulative 
amount either by applying paragraph C19(b) or: 
(i) as nil, unless (ii) applies; and 
(ii) for insurance contracts w ith direct participation features to which paragraph B134 
applies, as equal to the cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income 
on the underlying items. 
 
C19 For groups of insurance contracts that do not include contr acts issued more than one year apart: 
(a) if an entity applies paragraph C13 to estimate the discount  rates that applied at initial 
recognition (or subsequently), it shall also determine the discount rates specified in paragraphs 
B72(b)–B72(e) applying paragraph C13; and 
(b) if an entity chooses to disaggregate insurance finance inco me or expenses between amounts 
included in profit or loss and amounts included in other compre hensive income, applying 
paragraphs 88(b) or 89(b), the entity needs to determine the cu mulative amount of insurance 
finance income or expenses recognised in other comprehensive in come at the transition date 
to apply paragraph 91(a) in future periods. The entity shall determine that cumulative amount: 
(i) for insurance contracts for which an entity will apply the methods of systematic 
allocation set out in paragraph B131 —if the entity applies paragraph C13 to estimate 
the discount rates at initial recognition—using the discount rates that applied at the date 
of initial recognition, also applying paragraph C13; 
(ii) for insurance contracts for which an entity will apply the  methods of systematic 
allocation set out in paragraph B132 —on the basis that the assumptions that relate to 
financial risk that applied at the date of initial recognition are those that apply on the 
transition date, ie as nil; 
(iii) for insurance contracts for which an entity will apply th e methods of systematic 
allocation set out in paragraph B133 —if the entity applies paragraph C13 to estimate 
the discount rates at initial recognition (or subsequently)—using the discount rates that 
applied at the date of the incurred claim, also applying paragraph C13; and 
(iv) for insurance contracts with direct participation features  to which paragraph B134 
applies—as equal to the cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income 
on the underlying items. 
C19A Applying paragraph B137, an entity may choose not to change the treatment of accounting estimates 
made in previous interim financial statements. To the extent pe rmitted by paragraph C8, such an 
entity shall determine amounts related to insurance finance income or expenses at the transition date 
as if it had not prepared interim financial statements before the transition date. 
Fair value approach 
C20 To apply the fair value approach, an entity shall determine  the contractual service margin or loss 
component of the liability for remaining coverage at the transition date as the difference between the 
fair value of a group of insurance contracts at that date and the fulfilment cash flows measured at that 
date. In determining that fair value, an entity shall not apply  paragraph 47 of SLFRS 13 Fair Value 
Measurement (relating to demand features). 
C20A For a group of reinsurance contracts held to which paragra phs 66A–66B apply (without the need to 
meet the condition set out in paragraph B119C), an entity shall  determine the loss-recovery 
component of the asset for remaining coverage at the transition date by multiplying: 
(a) the loss component of the liability for remaining coverage for the underlying insurance 
contracts at the transition date (see paragraphs C16 and C20); and 

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    69A 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
 
(b) the percentage of claims for the underlying insurance contr acts the entity expects to recover 
from the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
C20B Applying paragraphs 14‒22, at the transition date an entity mig ht include in an onerous group of 
insurance contracts both onerous insurance contracts covered by a group of reinsurance contracts held 
and onerous insurance contracts not covered by the group of rei nsurance contracts held. To apply 
paragraph C20A in such cases, an  entity shall use a systematic and rational basis of allocation to 
determine the portion of the loss component of the group of ins urance contracts that relates to 
insurance contracts covered by the group of reinsurance contracts held. 
C21 In applying the fair value ap proach, an entity may apply paragraph C22 to determine: 
(a) how to identify groups of in surance contracts, applying paragraphs 14–24; 
(b) whether an insurance contract meets the definition of an in surance contract with direct 
participation features, applying paragraphs B101–B109; 
(c) how to identify discretionary cash flows for insurance cont racts without direct participation 
features, applying paragraphs B98–B100; and 
(d) whether an investment contract meets the definition of an i nvestment contract with 
discretionary participation features within the scope of SLFRS 17, applying paragraph 71. 
 
C22 An entity may choose to deter mine the matters in paragraph C21 using: 
(a) reasonable and supportable information for what the entity would have determined given the 
terms of the contract and the market conditions at the date of inception or initial recognition, 
as appropriate; or 
(b) reasonable and supportable info rmation available at the transition date. 
C22A In applying the fair value approach, an entity may choose to classify as a liability for incurred claims 
a liability for settlement of claims incurred before an insurance contract was acquired in a transfer of 
insurance contracts that do not form a business or in a busines s combination within the scope of 
SLFRS 3.  
C23 In applying the fair value approach, an entity is not requi red to apply paragraph 22, and may include 
in a group contracts issued more than one year apart. An entity  shall only divide groups into those 
including only contracts issued within a year (or less) if it has reasonable and supportable information 
to make the division. Whether or not an entity applies paragrap h 22, it is permitted to determine the 
discount rates at the date of initial recognition of a group sp ecified in paragraphs B72(b) –B72(e)(ii) 
and the discount rates at the date of the incurred claim specif ied in paragraph B72(e)(iii) at the 
transition date instead of at the date of initial recognition or incurred claim. 
C24 In applying the fair value approach, if an entity chooses t o disaggregate insurance finance income or 
expenses between profit or loss and other comprehensive income,  it is permitted to determine the 
cumulative amount of insurance finance income or expenses recog n i s e d  i n  o t h e r  c o m p r e h e n s i v e  
income at the transition date: 
(a) retrospectively —but only if it has reasonable and supportable information to do so; or 
(b) as nil —unless (c) applies; and 
(c) for insurance contracts with direct participation features to which paragraph B134 applies—as 
equal to the cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensiv e income from the 
underlying items. 

<!-- page 70 -->

70A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ck rcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.08.2022  
 
Asset for insurance acquisition cash flows 
C24A In applying the fair value approach for an asset for insur ance acquisition cash flows (see paragraph 
C5B(b)), at the transition date, an entity shall determine an asset for insurance acquisition cash flows 
at an amount equal to the insurance acquisition cash flows the entity would incur at the transition date 
for the rights to obtain: 
(a) recoveries of insurance acquisition cash flows from premium s of insurance contracts issued 
before the transition date but not recognised at the transition date; 
(b) future insurance contracts that are renewals of insurance c ontracts recognised at the transition 
date and insurance contracts described in (a); and 
(c) future insurance contracts, other than those in (b), after the transition date without paying again 
insurance acquisition cash flows the entity has already paid that are directly attributable to the 
related portfolio of insurance contracts. 
C24B At the transition date, the entity shall exclude from the measurement of any groups of insurance 
contracts the amount of any asset for insurance acquisition cash flows. 
 
Comparative information 
C25 Notwithstanding the reference to the annual reporting perio d immediately preceding the date of initial 
application in paragraph C2(b), an entity may also present adjusted comparative information applying 
SLFRS 17 for any earlier periods presented, but is not required  to do so. If an entity does present 
adjusted comparative information for any earlier periods, the reference to ‘the beginning of the annual 
reporting period immediately preceding the date of initial appl ication’ in paragraph C2(b) shall be 
read as ‘the beginning of the earliest adjusted comparative period presented’. 
C26 An entity is not required to  provide the disclosures specif ied in paragraphs 93 –132 for any period 
presented before the beginning of the annual reporting period immediately preceding the date of initial 
application. 
C27 If an entity presents unadjusted comparative information an d disclosures for any earlier periods, it 
shall clearly identify the information that has not been adjusted, disclose that it has been prepared on 
a different basis, and explain that basis. 
C28 An entity need not disclose previously unpublished informat ion about claims development that 
occurred earlier than five years before the end of the annual r eporting period in which it first applies 
SLFRS 17. However, if an entity does not disclose that information, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
Redesignation of financial assets 
C29 At the date of initial application of SLFRS 17, an entity t hat had applied SLFRS 9 to annual reporting 
periods before the initial application of SLFRS 17: 
(a) may reassess whether an eligible financial asset meets the condition in paragraph 4.1.2(a) or 
paragraph 4.1.2A(a) of SLFRS 9. A financial asset is eligible o nly if the financial asset is not 
held in respect of an activity that is unconnected with contrac ts within the scope of SLFRS 17. 
Examples of financial assets that would not be eligible for reassessment are financial assets held 
in respect of banking activities or financial assets held in fu nds relating to investment contracts 
that are outside the scope of SLFRS 17. 
(b) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit 
or loss if the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9 is no longer met because of the application 
of SLFRS 17. 
(c) may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value t hrough profit or loss if the condition in 
paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9 is met. 

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'19    71A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -19.08.2022
(d) may designate an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value through other comprehensive
income applying paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9.
(e) may revoke its previous designation of an investment in an equity instrument as at fair value
through other comprehensive income applying paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9.
C30 An entity shall apply paragraph C29 on the basis of the fact s and circumstances that exist at the date 
of initial application of SLFRS 17. An entity shall apply those designations and classifications 
retrospectively. In doing so, the entity shall apply the releva nt transition requirements in SLFRS 9. 
The date of initial application for that purpose shall be deemed to be the date of initial application of 
SLFRS 17.
C31 An entity that applies paragra ph C29 is not required to restate prior periods to reflect such changes in 
designations or classifications. The entity may restate prior p eriods only if it is possible without the 
use of hindsight. If an entity restates prior periods, the rest ated financial statements must reflect all 
the requirements of SLFRS 9 for those affected financial assets. If an entity does not restate prior 
periods, the entity shall recognise, in the opening retained earnings (or other component of equity, as 
appropriate) at the date of initial application, any difference between:
(a) the previous carrying amount of those financial assets; and
(b) the carrying amount of those financial assets at the date of  initial application.
C32 When an entity applies paragraph C29, it shall disclose in th at annual reporting period for those 
financial assets by class:
(a) if paragraph C29(a) applies—its basis for determining eligible financial assets;
(b) if any of paragraphs C29(a)–C29(e) apply:
(i) the measurement category and carrying amount of the affected  financial assets
determined immediately before the date of initial application of SLFRS 17; and
(ii) the new measurement category and carrying amount of the aff ected financial assets
determined after applying paragraph C29.
(c) if paragraph C29(b) applies—the carrying amount of financial assets in the statement of
financial position that were previously designated as measured at fair value through profit or
loss applying paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9 that are no longer so designated.
C33 When an entity applies paragraph C29, the entity shall disclo se in that annual reporting period 
qualitative information that would enable users of financial statements to understand:
(a) how it applied paragraph C29 to financial assets the classif ication of which has changed on
initially applying SLFRS 17;
(b) the reasons for any designation or de-designation of financi al assets as measured at fair value
through profit or loss applying paragraph 4.1.5 of SLFRS 9; and
(c) why the entity came to any different conclusions in the new assessment applying paragraphs
4.1.2(a) or 4.1.2A(a) of SLFRS 9.
Withdrawal of other SLFRS Standards
C34 SLFRS 17 supersedes SLFRS 4Insurance Contracts, as amended in 2020.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
(2*