

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
TEA  RESEARCH  BOARD  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  30  OF  2003
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 15th October, 2003]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 4.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October17, 2003

<!-- page 2 -->

1Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2003
[Certified on 15th October, 2003]
L. D.—O. 16/99.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  TEA  RESEARCH  BOARD
A CT , NO . 52 OF  1993
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Tea Research Board
(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2003 and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.
2. Section 5 of the Tea Research Board Act, No. 52 of
1993 (hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”) is
hereby amended by the addition at the end of that section, of
the following paragraphs :—
“(f) to promote investment in tea research ;
(g) to undertake the collection and dissemination of
data on the tea industry and to conduct research to
ascertain the development potential of the tea
industry ;
(h) to advise the Minister on appropriate policies in
relation to the tea industry and to co-ordinate with
other relevent agencies”.
3. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) thereof, and the
substitution therefor of the following subsections :—
‘(1)The Board shall consist of —
(a) the person holing office for the time being as
the Director of the Tea Research Institute, who
shall be the ex-officio member of the Board ;
and
(b) the following nominated members appointed
by the Minister, namely—
Short title and
date of
operation.
Amendment of
section 5 of Act
No. 52 of 1993.
Amendment of
section 7 of the
principal
enactment.
2—H 019151—5,650 (07/2003)

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2003
(i) a representative of the Tea Small
Holdings Development Authority
established by the Tea Small Holdings
Development Authority Law, No. 35 of
1975, nominated by such Authority ;
(ii) a representative of the Planters’
Association of Ceylon established by
the Planters’ Association of Ceylon
Ordinance (Chapter 291) nominated by
such Association in consultation with
the Tea Association of Sri Lanka
(TASL) ;
(iii) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of
Plantation Industries, nominated by that
Minister ;
(iv) a representative of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance, nominated by that Minister ;
(v) two members nominated by the Minister
in charge of the subject of Plantation
Industries from amongst persons having
sufficient knowledge and research and
development experience in the
agricultural sector ;
(vi) two members representing Trade
Unions, which shall be selected on such
criteria as may be determined by the
Minister in charge of the subject of
Plantation Industries :
For the purposes of this sub-paragraph
“Trade Union” shall have the same
meaning as in the Trade Unions
Ordinance (Chapter 138) ;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2003
(vii) one member nominated by the
Federation of Tea Small Holdings
Development Societies in consultation
with the Tea Association of Sri Lanka
(TASL) ; and
(viii) one member nominated by the Private
Tea Factory Owners’ Association in
consultation with the Tea Association
of Sri Lanka (TASL).
(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointed
members as the Chairman of the Board.’.
4. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (5) thereof by the substitution for the
words “five members” of the words “six members.”.
5. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “Tea Research
Institute referred to in section 7(1) (a) (i) shall” of the words
“Tea Research Institute referred to in paragraph (a) of
subsection (1) of section 7 shall be the chief executive officer
of the Institute and shall,”.
6. The members of the Board holding office on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this
Act shall continue to hold office as such until such time the
Board is reconstituted under section 7 of the principal
enactment as amended by this Act.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 12 of the
principal
enactment.
Transitional
provision.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Tea Research Board (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2003
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS   BUREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in  respect
of the year following.