

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2177
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2168
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"039 – 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'09'29
No. 2,039 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER  29, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th october, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th october, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
b 81211- 5,403 (09/2017)
Note.–   sri shakyasingharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka sanvidanaya (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part 
ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of september 22, 2017.
2165

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2166
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2167
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2168
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICES COmmISSION
ministry of Labour, Trade union Relations and 
Sabaragamuwa Development
REcRuitmENt oN oPEN basis foR thE Post 
of LEGaL officER of GRadE iii of ExEcutiVE 
sERVicE catEGoRy  
aPPLicatioNs are called from suitably qualified Sri 
Lanka Citizens who have fulfilled the qualifications set out 
in this notice for one vacancy in the post of Legal Officer 
of the ministry of Labour, trade union Relations and 
sabaragamuwa development.
01.  method of recruitment.– 
 a  board of interview appointed by the Public 
services commission will conduct a structured 
interview for applicants who have fulfilled the 
qualifications set out in the notice and recruitment 
will be made on the merit of the aggregate of marks 
obtained at the structure d interview in accordance 
with the marking procedure approved by the Public 
services commission. the date on which the 
appointment will be effective will be determined by 
the Public services commission. 
02. Required qualifications :
 2.1  Educational/ Professional qualifications :
 (i) a  degree in law from a university recognized 
by the university Grants commission 
or 
 (ii) should have taken oaths as an attorney at 
law of supreme court 
 2.2  experience :
 (i)   active professional experience of not less 
than 03 years as an attorney at law after taking 
oaths as an attorney at law of supreme court 
(the period during which the experience was 
gained, date and official seal shall be clearly 
indicated in the documents corroborating the 
active professional experience)  
 2.3  Physical Fitness :
  Every candidate should have adequate physical 
and mental fitness to serve in any part of the 
island and discharge his or her duties. 
 2.4  Other Qualifications :
 (i)  should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 (ii)  should be of excellent moral character. 
 (iii)  Qualifications should have been completed 
in every respect on the date specified in the 
notification calling for applications as the 
date on which the required qualifications 
for the recruitment to the post should be 
completed.  
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment :
(i) this post is permanent. you shall be liable to policy 
decision to be taken in future by the government in 
respect of your pension entitlement. 
(ii) this post is subject to a probation period of 03 
years.
(iii) Should pass the first efficiency bar examination as 
stated in the recruitment procedure before the lapse 
of 03 years from the date of appointment.
(iv)   in terms of the provisions of Public administration 
circular No. 1/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and the 
circulars incidental thereto, the applicant should 
confirm that he/she has obtained the relevant 
Language Proficiency in respect of the Official 
Languages within 5 years from the date of 
recruitment and officers who joined the service in 
a medium which is not an official language should 
acquire the required Official Language proficiency 
within the probationary period. 
(v) this appointment is subject to the general 
conditions governing the appointments in public 
service, procedures and rules of Public service 
commission, financial Regulations, provisions of 
Establishments code and amendments thereto, the 
financial Regulations and departmental and other 
orders. 
4.   Age Limit.– shall be not less than 21 years and 
not more than 45 years as at the closing date of the 
applications.
5.   Salary Scale.– as per Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016, the monthly salary scale 
relevant to this post is  Rs.47,615 – 10x1335 – 
8x1630 – 17 x 2,170 - 110,895. (y our salary will 
be paid in accordance with the provisions of the 
said circular and as mentioned in the schedule ii 
appended thereto.)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2169
 6. The marking scheme given below will be the basis for the structured interview : 
Subject Maximum 
Marks 
01 Additional Educational Qualifications 
degree in law from a university recognized by the university Grants commission 
- first class pass
- second class upper pass
- second class lower pass 
- 
For a first class pass in the final year of Law College 
For a second class pass in the final year of Law College 
Note.- 10 marks should only be awarded if the final examination has been passed with 
honours)
(Marls will be awarded only for the highest qualification – Either for the degree or 
qualifications from Law College)  
20
15
10
15
10
20
02 Additional Professional Qualifications
For a  post graduate diploma or  a post law diploma in the relevant field of a duration 
of not less than one year awarded by an institute recognized by the university Grants 
commission.   
(05 marks for each diploma) 
For a diploma of not less than 06 month’s duration in the relevant field awarded by an  
institute recognized by the government
(03 marks for each diploma) 
For a certificate course of not less than 03 month’s duration in the relevant field conducted 
by an institute recognized by the government
(02 marks for each course) 
15
03 Additional Experience 
Experience as an attorney at law in the public service or the private sector – more than 06 
months and less than a year – 02 marks 
maximum marks of 30 with 05 marks per year
( Except for the 03 year period of service as an attorney at law required for obtaining basic 
qualifications) 
(Additional experience should be corroborated through a certificate obtained from an 
attorney at law with a period of service of not less than 20 years or a President’s counsel 
or a Judge) 
30
04 knowledge on Information Technology 
for studying information technology as a major subject for a degree of a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission. 
for a diploma course on information technology  of 1500 hours/ of not less than 01 year  
in an institute recognized by the government. 
A certificate course on Information Technology in an institute recognized by the 
government. 
- 06 months/ 720 hours 
- 03 months/ 360 hours 
15
10
07
05
15

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2170
Subject Maximum 
Marks 
05 Proficiency in English Language 
Post graduate degree/degree/post graduate law degree/ law degree in English medium 
(all the relevant question papers should have been answered in English medium) 
for a diploma in English Language in a university recognized by the university Grants 
commission or a recognized government institute.
(one year or 1500 hours)  
For a certificate course in English Language in a university recognized by the University 
Grants commission or a recognized government institute 
- 06 months/ 720 hours 
- 03 months/ 360 hours 
15
10
07
05
15
06 Performance at the interview 05
Total 100
7. Identity of the candidate  :
 7.1  only those candidates who have perfected the application in every respect will be called for the structured 
interview.
 7.2  Originals of all certificates and testimonials and duly prepared copies thereof shall be produced at the 
interview.
 7.3  Candidates shall produce one of the following identification documents at the interview to prove their 
identity. 
 (i)  National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons 
 (ii)  Valid passport
 (iii)  Valid driving license 
8.  Mode of application :
 8.1 applications shall be forwarded under the registered cover on or before  30.10.2017  to the following 
address. applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
  secretary,
  ministry of Labour, trade union Relations and sabaragamuwa development 
  second floor
  Labour secretariat 
  Narahenpita
  colombo- 05. 
 8.2 The application from should be in conformity with the specimen attached to this notification. It should be 
prepared on a paper of A4 size in such a manner that item number 01 to 11 appear on the first page and 
item numbers 12 to 16 on the second page and should be filled clearly by the applicant’s own hand writing. 
the words “Application for the post of Legal Officer” shall be clearly written on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope containing the application.
 8.3 Applications which are not in conformity with the specimen attached to this notification will be rejected. 
No complaints will  be entertained in relation to lost or delayed applications.  
 8.4 the signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government school/ Justice of the 
Peace/ Commissioner of Oaths/ Attorney at Law/ Notary Public/ a Commissioned Officer of the three 
armed forces/ an Officer holding a Gazetted Post in the Police Service or a Government Officer drawing 
a monthly consolidated salary greater than Rs. 37,522. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2171
 8.5 applicants who are already in the Public service should forward their applications through the head of the 
department of the department they are currently attached to. 
9.  Submission of false information.–if any information mentioned by the candidate in the application is found to 
be false or incorrect before recruitment, his/her candidature will be cancelled. if any such false or incorrect information is 
found after the recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss him/her from public service subject to relevant legal procedures.
by order of the Public services commission,
 s. a. Nimal SaraNatiSSa, 
 secretary,
 ministry of Labour, trade union Relations and 
 sabaragamuwa development.
Labour secretariat,
Narahenpita,
colombo- 05.
miNiStry of labour, trade uNioN relatioNS & Sabaragamuwa developmeNt
applicatioN for recruitmeNt to the poSt of legal officer
s.  No.
           For office use only 
01. (i)  Name in full: mr/mrs/ miss :–––––––––––––.
  (in English block letters) 
 (ii)  Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil) 
02.  Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
03. temporary address :–––––––––––––.
04.  Gender :
  male -0/ female -1 
  (indicate the relevant number in the box)  
05.  civil status :   
   (tick off the relevant box) 
06.  citizenship :–––––––––––––.
07.  citizenship whether by birth or registration :–––––––––––––.
08.  National identity card Number :  
09.  telephone No. :  fixed  
    mobile  
10. (i)  date of birth :   year month date
  (ii)  age as at the closing date of applications :  y ears months days
11.  Qualifications :
 11.1  Educational Qualifications :
    (i) Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––––.
    (ii)  university/institution :–––––––––––––.
   (iii)  degree :–––––––––––––.
married  single

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2172
12.  Professional qualifications and experience :
 (i) Experience as a lawyer in the supreme court  :–––––––––––.
 (ii) .........................................................................................................
 (iii) .........................................................................................................
 (iv) .........................................................................................................
13.  have you been accused of any criminal offence? yes / No 
 (i) if ‘yes’, the date and case number and all other relevant information  :–––––––––––.
14.  declaration of the applicant :
i hereby declare that the information furnished by me in this application is true and correct. i am aware that my 
application will be rejected if any information is proved to be untrue or incorrect before my being selected for the post 
and if it is proved to be untrue or incorrect after my being selected, i shall be subject to dismissal from the post without 
any compensation.
     –––––––––––––,
    signature of the applicant.
date  :–––––––––––.
15.  attesting the signature of the applicant :
i certify that mr./ mrs./ miss ………………………………………. who is submitting this application is known 
to me personally and he/she placed her signature in my presence on ……………………………. 
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting officer.
date  :–––––––––––.
16.  Certification and recommendation of the Head of the Department.(Should be completed by officers already in the 
public service) :
i hereby certify that this applicant mr. / mrs. / miss. ………………………………………………….. is serving 
in this department/ ministry as ………………………………… and that his/ her work and conduct is satisfactory and 
that all the information furnished by him is correct and i agree to release him from his/ her current post if selected for this 
post. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 (signature of the head of department) 
date  :–––––––––––.
Name in full :–––––––––––.
Post  :–––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––.
(Shall be certified with official seal) 
09–761 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2173
mINISTRy  Of  hEALTh,  NuTRITION  AND  INDIGENOuS  mEDICINE
Recruitment to Posts in Segment 1 of Field/Office Based Officers Category of the Department of Sri 
Lanka Ayurveda - Open
APPLICATIONS are invited from those who satisfy following qualifications by 29.10.2017 for recruitment under Scheme 
of Recruitment to the posts in Segment 1 of Field/Office Based Officers Category of the Department of Ayurveda as 
approved by the letter No. Psc/Est/03-01-13-2015 of 07.03.2017 of the secretary to the Public service commission 
for following posts remaining vacant in the cadre approved for bandaranaike memorial ayurveda Research institute 
functioning under the purview of the department of ayurveda. 
 Post No. of Vacancies
Research Officer (Botanical) 01
Research Officer (Biotechnology) 01
Research Officer (Agriculture) 01
Research Officer (Plant Science) 01
Research Officer (Pharmacognosy) 01
Research Officer (Pharmaceutical) 01
Research Officer (Medical Chemistry) 01
Research Officer (Bio Chemistry) 01
Research Officer (Food Science) 01
Research Officer (Quality Control) 01
Research Officer (Human Biology) 01
Research Officer (Analysis) 01
Research Officer (Chemistry) 01
Research Officer (Molecular Biology) 01
Research Officer (Toxicology) 01
Research Officer (Medical Micro Biology) 01
Research Officer (Bio Physiology) 01
Research Officer (Social Sciences)  01
Recruitment will be made from the open stream in the above recruitments only when there are no applicants who 
satisfy qualifications required to be recruited out of the limited stream.
1. Salary :
 1.1 salary code - mN6-3/2016
 1.2 salary scale - Rs. 36,585 -10x660 - 11x755 -15x930 - Rs. 65,440.
2. Grade of Recruitment.- Grade ii.
3. Educational Qualifications.- Passing out of a university recognized by the university Grants commission 
with a first class or a second class (upper division) or a second class (Lower division) in bsc. (special) degree and 
obtaining a Postgraduate degree in the relevant stream. 
Designation Qualifications
Research Officer (Botanical) subjects pertaining to the degree - botany/forestry/Environmental science
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - Zoology/forestry/Environmental 
science/having read for a postgraduate degree on the use of medicinal plants
Research Officer (Biotechnology) subjects pertaining to the degree - bio chemical/molecular biology/cell biology 
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - bio chemical and molecular 
biology/cell biology having read for a postgraduate degree on bio technology

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2174
Designation Qualifications
Research Officer (Agriculture) subjects pertaining to the degree - agriculture/agro science
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - agriculture/agro science/
having read for a postgraduate degree on agricultural biology
Research Officer (Plant Science) subjects pertaining to the degree - Zoology/Plant science
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - Zoology/Plant science/Plant 
Physiology/having read for a postgraduate degree on the use of medicinal plants
Research Officer (Pharmacognosy) subjects pertaining to the degree - chemistry/biological chemistry/analytical 
chemistry
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - chemistry/biological 
chemistry/analytical chemistry/having read for a postgraduate degree on the 
use of medicinal plants
Research Officer (Pharmacist) subjects pertaining to the degree - subjects pertaining to the Pharmacy 
Postgraduate degree
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - chemistry/biological chemistry/
analytical chemistry having read for a postgraduate degree on medical chemistry
Research Officer (Medical 
chemistry)
subjects pertaining to the degree - chemistry/analytical chemistry/medical 
chemistry
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - chemistry/analytical chemistry/
having read for a postgraduate degree on the use of medicinal plants together with 
medical chemistry
Research Officer (Bio Chemistry) subjects pertaining to the degree - cemistry biological chemistry
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - chemistry/biological 
chemistry/analytical chemistry/Plant science/medical chemistry/having read 
for a postgraduate degree on applied organic chemistry
Research Officer (Chemistry) subjects pertaining to the degree - chemistry /biological chemistry/analytical 
chemistry
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - biological chemistry/having 
read for a postgraduate degree on applied organic chemistry
Research Officer (Food Science) subjects pertaining to the degree - food science and technology/food science 
and Nutrition
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - food science and technology/
having read for a postgraduate degree on food science and Nutrition
Research Officer (Quality Control) subjects pertaining to the degree - chemistry/Environmental science
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - having read for a postgraduate 
degree on Quality control
Research Officer (Human Biology) subjects pertaining to the degree - human biology subjects pertaining to the 
Postgraduate degree - human biology/Physiology/ having read for a postgraduate 
degree on biological science
Research Officer (Analysis) subjects pertaining to the degree - chemistry/analytical chemistry/biological 
chemistry/medical chemistry subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree 
- analytical chemistry/having read for a postgraduate degree on medical 
chemistry. 
Research Officer (Molecular 
biology)
subjects pertaining to the degree - bio chemistry and molecular biology subjects 
pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - having read for a postgraduate degree on 
molecular biology
Research Officer (Toxicology) subjects pertaining to the degree - chemistry/analytical chemistry/biological 
chemistry
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - having read for a postgraduate 
degree on toxicology

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2175
Designation Qualifications
Research Officer (Medical 
microbiology)
subjects pertaining to the degree - microbiology 
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - having read for a postgraduate 
degree on medical microbiology
Research Officer (Social Science) subjects pertaining to the degree - social science
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - having read for a postgraduate 
degree on human social science
Research Officer (Bio Physiology) subjects pertaining to the degree - Physiology/bio Physiology
subjects pertaining to the Postgraduate degree - Physiology/bio Physiology/
having read for a postgraduate degree on medical Physiology
4. Vocational Qualifications.- Particular attention will be paid on officers with experience in the relevant field. 
5. experience.- Should have received professional experience on the relevant field. 
6. Physical Qualifications.- Every applicant should possess physical and mental fitness required for serving in 
any area in sri Lanka and to perform duties of the post. 
7.0 Other : 
 (i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka,
 (ii) applicants should possess an excellent character, 
 (iii) Should have satisfied, in every respect, all qualifications required to be satisfied for recruitment to the 
post by the date specified in the notification calling applications/Gazette. 
8. Age :
 8.1 minimum limit - not below 21 years
 8.2 maximum limit - not above 35 years.
9. Method of recruitment.-  Recruitment on total marks obtained at the written examination and interview 
conducted to evaluate aptitude :
 9.1 Written examination : 
Subject Maximum Marks Pass Marks
aptitude 100 40%
Knowledge on profession related subject 100 40%
 
 9.2 conducting authority - by an institution approved by the commissioner General of Examinations or 
commissioner of ayurveda 
aptitude evaluation interview 
Heads on marking Maximum limit of marks Minimum marks considered for 
selection
Additional educational qualifications 25
Not applicable
Professional qualifications 20
Professional experience 20
computer skills 15
Language proficiency 15
skill exhibited at the interview 05
100

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2176
Note :
 1. the appointing authority will approve a comprehensive marking scheme for each interview for 
evaluation within maximum limits of marks allocated for key areas of marking appearing in the above 
table. 
 2. Recruitment to the post will be made by calling applicants who score highest marks at the written 
examination to an aptitude testing interview and on merit order of total marks scored at the written 
examination and aptitude testing interview and the number of available vacancies. 
10. Method of calling applications.- by publishing in Government Gazette or by public press advertisements and 
publishing in the website. 
Those applicants who satisfy the above qualifications should send their applications prepared in keeping with 
the specimen given below by registered post to reach Commissioner of Ayurveda before 29.10.2017 "Post of Field/Office 
Based Officer - Category of Segment 1 of the Department of Ayurveda" should be written on top left hand corner of the 
envelope containing applications. it is further informed that false or incomplete applications will be rejected. (further 
information may be found from the website www.ayurveda.gov.lk)
 m. d. m. d. 
KaruNathilaKa, 
 commissioner of ayurveda.
Navinna, 
maharagama, 
29th september, 2017.
REcRuitmENt to thE Posts of sEGmENt 1 sERVicE catEGoRy of officE/fiELd basEd 
officERs of thE dEPaRtmENt of ayuRVEda - oPEN
 1. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
 2. full name :–––––––––––.
 3.  (i) Permanent address :–––––––––––.
   (ii) t elephone No. :–––––––––––.
 4. National identity card No. :–––––––––––.
 5. date of birth :–––––––––––.
 6. Educational Qualifications : 
Degree University Date of Completion of the 
Degree
Subjects taken
1.
2.
3.
 7. Professional qualifications : 
S/No. Course title Institution Duration
1
2
* Annex certified copies of certificates.
 8. Particulars of experience in the relevant field : 
S/No. Field of experience Duration Institution
1
2
 9. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2177
i certify that information i have furnished here are true. 
I am aware that I may be disqualified if any information 
contained herein is revealed to be incorrect or false before 
selection and be dismissed from service if so revealed 
after my appointment. further, i also declare that i will be 
subject to rules and regulations imposed by secretary to 
the ministry of health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine 
on conducting the examination and to decisions taken on 
release of examination results. 
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature.
date :–––––––––––––.
Attestation of Signature :
I affirm that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. 
who is submitting this application has placed his/her 
signature before me on ........................
 –––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the attester.
date  :–––––––––––––.
full name of the attester  :–––––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
(Please place the official stamp)
Attestation of signature.- signature of the applicant 
appearing in the application should be attested by a 
Principal of a Government school or a Justice of Peace 
or an Attorney-at-Law or a staff officer of Public Service. 
09-817
OPEN/ LImITED COmPETITIvE 
ExAmINATION fOR RECRuITmENT TO  
GRADE III Of ThE SRI LANkA PLANNING 
SERvICE – 2017 
thE term “service” in this notification means the Sri 
Lanka Planning service (s.L.P.s)
 1. Date of Examination :
  the examination will be held in January 2018 in 
colombo and Jaffna, by the commissioner General of 
Examinations. Public service commission reserves 
the right to postpone or cancel this examination.
 2. Number of employees to be appointed and the date 
of appointment :
  this will be determ ined in terms of the orders of the 
Public service commission.
 3. Condition of Service :
  a  candidate, selected subject to the General 
conditions which govern the appointments of the 
public service, conditions prescribed in the minute of 
sri Lanka Planning service published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary of democratic socialist Republic of 
sri Lanka No. 1670/32 dated 10th september 2010, 
and the amendments made or will be made to the said 
minute in the future, will be appointed to Grade iii of 
sri Lanka Planning service. you are subjected to the 
policy decisions taken by the government with regard 
to the pension scheme you are entitled to. 
 4. Structure and monthly Salary scale
  monthly salary scale as per sL 1-2016 of Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
01.01.2016, 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
ThE fINANCE COmmISSION 
Applications are invited from Sri Lankan 
Nationals with the following qualifications for 4 
posts of Driver in primary level-skilled service 
category III of the finance Commission
this refers to the Gazette Notification Number 2037 and 
dated 15.09.2017 of the democratic socialist Republic of 
sri Lanka. 
02. the tamil medium application in relation to the 
above mentioned posts of driver can be downloaded from 
the Web site of the department of Government Printing 
(www.documents.gov.lk).
03. the deadline for submitting applications has been 
extended up to 06th of october, 2017.
04. the other particulars of recruitment notice remain 
unchanged. 
 a. d. m. u. d. b. 
teNNaKooN, 
 secretary, 
 the finance commission. 
21st of september, 2017. 
09–892

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2178
  The monthly salary scale:-
  sL i- 2016 – Rs.47,615-10x 1335-8x1630-17x2170- 
Rs.110,895/-
  (the salary is paid in line with the provisions in Public 
administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 as 
mentioned in schedule ii of the same)
 5. Qualifications:
 5.1 Open Competitive Examination 
 (a) Educational Qualifications:
 (i) Having obtained a degree with a first 
or second class from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission
or
 (ii) having obtained a degree from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission and a Post 
Graduate diploma in a course of which 
the duration is not less than one year, 
awarded by a university recognized by 
university Grants commission or by 
a training institution established by a 
Parliament act. 
 (b) Physical Fitness:
  Every candidate should be physically fit in 
all aspects to serve in any part of sri Lanka.
 (c) Other Qualifications:
 (i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 (ii) should be of a good moral character
 (iii) No candidate will be allowed to sit for 
open competitive Examination more 
than twice
 (iv) any person holding priesthood in any 
religious sect will not be eligible to sit 
for this examination 
 (v) a  person will be treated as eligible to 
sit for the competitive examination 
for appointment to the service, only if 
the candidate has fulfilled all required 
qualifications referred to in Para 5.1 
(a) as at 29th september 2017 (date on 
which the notification is published on 
the Gazette).
 (d) Age:
  age should be not less than 22 years and 
not over than 28 years as at 29th september 
2017 (date on which the notification is 
published on the Gazette).
 (e) Written Examination (Please See                  
Appendix I)
Subjects Maximum 
Marks
Pass Marks 
(Minimum)
comprehension 100 40
intelligence test 100 40
General awareness 100 40
 5.2 Limited Competitive Examination
 (a) Educational Qualifications: having 
obtained a degree from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission 
 (b) Experience: 
  Should have not less than five years of 
uninterrupted, permanent and satisfactory 
period of service in a permanent post in a 
Government or Provincial Government 
service which carries a salary scale of 
mN-1-2016 or above and should possess 
qualifications set out in (a) above on 
or before the date of publishing of this 
notification.
  Further, of the officers who have been 
appointed to Grade ii, class ii of sri Lanka 
Planning service on supernumerary basis as 
per the approval of the cabinet of ministers 
dated 10.06.2009 with regard to the cabinet 
Paper No. : 09/0967/306/061 and absorbed 
in to Grade iii of sri Lanka Planning service 
may also apply for the limited examination
 (c) Physical Fitness :
  Every candidate should be physically fit in 
all aspects to serve in any part of sri Lanka.
 (d) Other qualifications :
 (i) candidates should be of excellent 
moral character
 (ii) shall have earned all increments on 
the due dates during the preceding five 
years
 (iii) shall have completed a satisfactory 
service in immediately preceding five 
years as at 29th september 2017 (date 
on which the notification is published 
on the Gazette).

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2179
 (iv) No candidate will be allowed to sit for 
the Limited competitive Examination 
more than twice.
 (v) any person holding priesthood in any 
religious sect will not be eligible to sit 
for this examination 
 (vi) A candidate shall fulfill all requirements 
mentioned in para 5.2 (b) above 
required to appear at the competitive 
examination for appointment in the 
post as at 29
th september 2017 (date on 
which the notification is published on 
the Gazette) to be deemed as eligible 
to appoint to the post.
 (e) method of Recruitment - Written 
Examination (Please see appendix 2)
Titles to which marks 
are allocated
Maximum 
Marks
Pass Marks
comprehension 100 40
case study 100 40
Planning 100 40
 6. Examination Fees :
  fee for the open competitive examination is Rs.1000/- 
and fee for the limited competitive examination is 
Rs.1000/-. if a candidate applies for both examinations 
the fee would be Rs.1500/-. the relevant examination 
fee should be paid to the credit of Revenue head 
No. 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of 
Examinations at any Post Office/ Sub Post Office 
before the closing date of applications. the receipt 
obtained thus from the Post Office should be affixed 
in the relevant cage of the application. it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt. Examination fee 
will not be refunded under any circumstances.
 7. Method of Application :
 (a) application form should be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen form attached to 
this notification using both sides of A4 paper and 
should be filled by the applicant him/herself. 
 (b) application should be prepared so as to appear 
item 01 to 03 and 04 to 07 on the first and second 
pages respectively and the rest on the third 
page. When preparing the application, the title 
of the examination should be written in English 
in addition to sinhala on sinhala applications 
and tamil on t amil applications. application 
which do not comply with the specimen form 
and incomplete applications will be rejected 
without prior notice. the loss of not preparing 
the application should be borne by the applicants 
themselves. it is advisable to keep a copy of the 
application.
Note:- the signature of the applicant on the 
application and the admission card for the 
examination should be attested. the applicants 
who apply for the examination through an 
institution should get their signatures attested 
by the head of the institution or by an 
officer authorized by him, and other officers 
should attest their signatures by a head of 
a Government school, Grama Niladhari 
division, Justice of Peace, commissioner of 
oaths, attorney-at-law, Notary Public or a 
permanent officer in staff grade at public or 
provincial public service who earn a combined 
annual salary of Rs.240, 360/-
 (c) all applications for open competitive 
Examination should be sent by registered 
post to reach the commissioner General of 
Examinations, organization and overseas 
Examination branch, department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka, P.o 1503, colombo 
before 27
th october 2017. the words “open 
competitive Examination, Grade iii of Planning 
service” should be written clearly on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application. applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected. 
Note: the candidates who are already in public 
service/ provincial public service and expect to 
appear for the open competitive examination 
should forward their applications through 
the heads of the respective departments or 
establishments.
 (d) all applications for Limited competitive 
Examination should be sent through the heads 
of department by Registered Post to reach 
the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and overseas Examination branch, 
department of Examinations sri Lanka, P.o. 
1503, colombo before 27
th october 2017. the 
words “Limited competitive Examination, 
Grade iii of Planning service” should be written 
clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application. applications received 
after the closing date will be rejected. 
  if a candidate hope to appear for both Limited 
and open competitive Examinations, the words 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2180
“Limited/open competitive Examination, Grade 
iii of Planning service” should be written clearly 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
 (e) a notice shall be published in the newspapers as 
soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. 
if the admission card is not received at least 
before five days of the date of the examination, 
steps shall be taken to notify the organizations 
and overseas Examinations branch of 
department of Examinations in the manner 
specified in the advertisement. When such 
inquiry is made applicants should accurately 
mention the name of the examination he/she 
has applied, full name of the applicant, National 
identity card No. and the address. it would be 
advisable to keep the following in hand at the 
time of calling the department of Examinations: 
i.e. a certified photocopy of the application form 
and the receipt kept at your possession, in case 
of applicants outside colombo, letter of request 
furnishing a fax number to which the admission 
cards should be sent. at such occasion the 
applicant should keep a copy of the application, a 
copy of the receipt obtained from the payment of 
the examination fees and the registration receipt 
of the letter to prove any matter the department 
may ask. 
8. Admission to the Examination:
 (a) the commissioner General of Examination 
will issue admission cards to all persons 
whose applications have been received 
assuming that those who have satisfied the 
qualifications have forwarded applications. 
a candidate presenting himself for the 
examination should produce his/her admission 
card in which his/ her signature is attested, 
to the supervisor of the examination center. 
any candidate who fails to produce his/her 
admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
Examination.  
 (b) candidates must sit the Examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him/her.  Every 
candidate should surrender the admission card 
to the supervisor of the hall on the first day 
he presents himself for the examination. a set 
of rules to be observed by all candidates is 
published in this Gazette. 
 (c) issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate 
is eligible to sit the examination has been 
accepted.
 (d) candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations on conducting 
the examination and they are liable to a 
punishment imposed by him for breach of 
these rules.
 9. Identity of the Candidate :
  a  candidate will be required to prove his/her identity 
at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject he/she offers. for this 
purpose, one of the following documents only, will 
be accepted.
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a  valid passport issued by the department of 
immigration and Emigration.
 10. Penalty for furnishing false information:
  if a candidate is found to be ineligible, his/her 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior 
to, during or after the examination. if it is found that 
a candidate has purposely furnished false information 
or willfully suppressed any material fact, he or she 
will be liable for dismissal from the public service.
 11. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall 
be dealt with on the decisions of the Public service 
commission.
 12. Scheme of Examination: 
  Language medium of Examination
 (a) the Examination will be held in the language 
mediums of sinhala, tamil and English.
 (b) applicants can sit for the Examination in any 
one of the languages they prefer. 
Note :
 (i) a candidate should sit all the papers of the 
Examination in one and the same language.
 (ii) candidates will not be permitted to change the 
language medium indicated in the application 
form.
 13. method of Testing :
  13.1 Open Competitive Examination 
a written examination consisting of following subjects :
 i. comprehension  - duration 02 hours- 100 marks
 ii. intelligence test - duration 01 hour - 100 marks
 iii. General awareness - duration 03 hours- 100 marks

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2181
 13.2 Limited Competitive Examination 
  i. comprehension - duration 02 hours – 100 marks
  ii. case study - duration 01 hour- 100 marks
  iii. Planning - duration 02 hours – 100 marks
   Syllabuses are given at the end of the notification
 13.3 Interview :
  candidates who secure at least 40% of marks for each paper shall be called for the interview. No of 
candidates to be called for the interview shall be determined by the Public service commission on the 
order of the merit of the marks obtained from the written Examination and the No. of vacancies. 
 13.4 Issuance of results :
  the results sheets prepared on the order of the merit of the total marks obtained for each subject by the 
qualified candidates who appeared at the examination as per paras 13.1, 13.2 and 13.3 of the Gazette 
notification shall be forwarded to the Secretary, Public Service Commission. The results will be personally 
informed to the candidates or published on the website www.results.exams.gov.lk
14. method of Selection for Appointments :
 candidates who have secured highest marks at the written tests of open and Limited competitive 
Examinations and possess basic qualifications shall be selected on the order of the merit. In the event of few 
candidates secured same marks, the decision of the Public service commission on the selection shall be the 
final. 
15. This notification is published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in the event of any inconsistency 
among the text, sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public service commission,
 J. J. 
rathNaSiri,
 secretary,
 ministry of Public administration and management.
14th september, 2017.
oPEN/ LimitEd  comPEtitiVE  ExamiNatioN  foR  REcRuitmENt  to
GRadE  iii  of  thE  sRi  LaNKa  PLaNNiNG  sERVicE – 2017 
index No. :
(For office use)
town in which the candidate appear for the Examination town No. :
mention the town and the town No. in which the candidate expects to sit for the examination
(colombo – 1, Jaffna – 2) * changing the town at a later occasion is not allowed 
medium
sinhala -2     tamil – 3    English – 4 
(Write in the relevant cage.) * changing the medium at a later occasion is not allowed.
Whether you apply for open/ Limited Examination or for both 
Limited- 1   open – 2    both – 3            (Write in the relevant cage)
*changing the examination at a later occasion is not allowed 
1.0 1.1  Name in full (in English block letters)  mr./mrs./ms. :–––––––––––––.
  (Ex.- hERath mudiyaNsELaGE samaN KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
 1.2  Name with initials at the end of the name (in English block Letters) mr./mrs./ms. :–––––––––––––.
  Ex.- (GuNaWaRdhaNa, h.m.s.K)
 1.3  Name in full(sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2182
2.0   Permanent address: (in English block letters) :–––––––––––––.
 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/tamil) 
 2.2 Official Address :–––––––––––––.
   (in English block Letters) 
 2.3 Official Address :–––––––––––––.
  (in sinhala/ tamil) 
 2.4 address to which the admission should be sent (in English blockLetters) :–––––––––––––.
  (If the candidate is an officer in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service he should furnish the office address, 
if any change occurs in the address, it should be promptly informed)
3.0 3.1 National identity card No. :
     3.2  sex:      female -1 male- 0 (write relevant No.)
  
 3.3  marital status:    married- 1  unmarried – 2  (Write relevant No.) 
     3.4 date of birth:  year     month     date 
 3.5 age as at 29.09.2017:     years  months      days                        
4.0   (To be filled by the candidates sitting for the Open Examinations) Provide following particulars :
 4.1 Qualifications obtained to be qualified to sit for this examination under Para 5.1 of this notification :–––––––.
 4.2  Institutions from which the said qualifications were obtained  :–––––––––––––.
5.0   (To be filled by the candidates sitting for the Limited Examinations) Provide following particulars :
 5.1 Qualifications obtained to be qualified to sit for this examination under Para 5.2 of this notification :–––––––.
 5.2  Institutions from which the said qualifications were obtained :
  (a) 
Department Served Post From To Time Period
 
(b) (i) service/ Post :–––––––––––.
 (ii) class:  from :–––––––––––.
     (iii) class:  from :–––––––––––.
 (iv) Total period of service in the Government as at 29.09.2017 (The date on which the notification is 
published on the Gazette)
      y ears :–––––––––––. months :–––––––––––.
  (a) service (ii) above: y ears :–––––––––––. months :–––––––––––.
  (b) service (iii) above: y ears :–––––––––––. months :–––––––––––.
 (v) annual salary as at 29.09.2017 (The date on which the notification is published on the Gazette) :               
–––––––––––.
6.0      6.1 the years in which you have sat for the Limited Examination for recruitment to sri Lanka Planning service :
   1. ……………………………  4………………………….
   2. ………………………….  5 …………………………
   3. …………………………  6…………………………
 6.2  the years in which you have sat for the open Examination for recruitment to sri Lanka Planning service :
  1……………………………
  2…………………………..
  3………………………….
7.0   Affix the receipt firmly to the application 
Affix receipt here
 (i) No. :–––––––––––. (iii)  Place to which the fees were paid :–––––––––––.
 (ii) date  :–––––––––––. (iv)  amount paid Rs. :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2183
8.0  Affirmation of the Applicant :
 8.1 i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief and the receipt number……………….. dated ………………… of the examination fee paid is 
attached herewith. further, i agree to act in conformity with the examination rules and regulations and to abide 
by any decision taken to cancel my candidature before or at the time of or after the examination, if i am deemed 
unqualified in terms of the conditions relating to this examination.
 8.2 i declare that i have earned all the increments (other than the increment granted under the condition of passing 
service or departmental examinations) and that i have not been subject to any disciplinary punishment (other 
than warning) within five years immediately preceding 29
th  september 2017 ((The date on which the notification 
is published on the Gazette).
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
9.0 9.1 attestation of the signature :
  i certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss ………………………………. is known to me personally and that he/
she placed his/her signature before me.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature and the frank of the attester.
 
date :–––––––––––.
full name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
Note:- the attester should be a Justice of Peace, commissioner of oaths, attorney at law, Notary Public or a permanent 
officer in staff grade at public or provincial public service who earn a combined annual salary of Rs.240, 360/-
 9.2 Affirmation of the head of the department :
  (Should be filled by all the applicants sitting for the Limited Examination and by the applicants sitting for the 
open Examination only when it is relevant)
 The Head of the Office that maintains your personal file should sign as the Head of the Department :
i hereby certify that …………………………………………………………………….., the applicant submitting 
this application is serving in this office from …………………………………….. and his/her work and behavior is 
satisfactory and personally examined all the particulars mentioned in 06 above with the reports of this office and found 
accurate and he/she placed his/her signature before me on ………………………… of ………………………… 2016. 
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of the head of the department.
date :–––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
Address: (confirm with a rubber stamp) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2184
Appendix I
Particulars related to the syllabus of the open Examination conducted to recruit to the Grade iii of the sri Lanka 
Planning service. 
this examination is comprised of the question papers mentioned below :
Number Subject Maximum Marks Pass Marks Time
1 comprehension 100 40 02 hours
2 intelligence test 100 40 01 hour 
3 General awareness 100 40 03 hours
Syllabus:
Subject Number 01 – Comprehension
this paper is comprised of two parts. Each part carries equal marks.
Part I
this includes writing an essay and a summary.
Part II
Part –ii is comprised of several extracts to examine the language awareness of the applicant. the candidate will 
be required to explain the meaning of the underlined terms of the given extracts in a single sentence or to write 
explanatory notes on them or to pick the most appropriate statement of a series of alternatives or to select the 
most accurate answer out of several answers for the question given. all the questions should be answered.
 
Subject Number 02 – Intelligence Test
this is compiled with the aim of measuring logical reasoning, analytical skills and the ability to make most accurate 
presumption of the candidate. this is a multiple choice Question paper which consists 50 questions. all the 
questions should be answered.
Subject Number 03 – General Awareness
this paper is designed set to examine candidate’s awareness about the overall environment of sri Lanka inclusive of 
geographical, political, economic, social and cultural environment and internationally important contemporary 
issues as well as the scientific and technological advancement. All the questions of this paper should be answered.
Note :-   (i) candidates should answer all the question papers he/she sit for, in one and the same language
              (ii) candidates are not allowed to change the medium of the examination indicated in their applications
  (b) this examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English languages.
  (c) candidates may sit for the examination in one language of their preference.
Appendix II
Particulars related to the syllabus of the Limited Examination conducted to recruit to the Grade iii of the sri 
Lanka Planning service. 
this examination is comprised of the question papers mentioned below. 
Number Subject Maximum Marks Pass Marks Time
1 comprehension 100 40 02 hours
2 case study 100 40 01 hour 
3 Planning 100 40 02 hours

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2185
Syllabus:
Subject Number 01 – Comprehension
several extracts are given to the candidate and alternative texts are provided for certain extracts. one of such 
texts will be most similar with the meaning of the extract. the candidate is asked to select the text which is 
most similar in meaning. Questions are prepared based on other extracts to examine the comprehension of the 
candidate. all questions must be answered. 
Subject Number 02- Case Study
this paper is designed to test the candidate’s power of thinking and problem solving abilities. in this paper candidate 
will be presented with one or more situations on books and publications relating to economy and planning of 
present sri Lanka and directed to give solutions. all the questions should be answered.
Subject Number 03 –Planning
the objective of this paper is to test the candidate’s basic knowledge on principles of planning and strategies of 
planning. all the questions should be answered.
Note:- (i) candidates should sit for all the papers in this examination in one language.
 (ii) candidates are not allowed to change the medium of examination indicated in their application.
  (iii) all the candidates should sit for all the three (03) papers.
 (iv) The number of officers recruited at a time is decided by the Public Service Commission.
09–854
––––––––––––––
LImITED COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR APPOINTmENT TO SuPRA  
GRADE Of PubLIC mANAGEmENT 
ASSISTANTS' SERvICE - 2017
it is hereby notified that the Limited Competitive 
Examination for recruitment to the supra class of 
Public management assistant's service shall be held in 
all three languages of sinhala, tamil and English by the 
commissioner General of Examination in January.
02. this examination shall be held in the following 
towns. the towns in which the examination centers are 
located and the relevant town numbers are given below.  
 Town Town Number
colombo 01
Kandy 02
badulla 03
matara 04
Jaffna 05
 
At the occasions, where a sufficient number of 
applications are not received in respect of a certain centre 
mentioned above, such examination center shall be 
cancelled and the applicants shall be directed to an adjoining 
centre. the town applied initially shall not be allowed to 
change subsequently. further, the commissioner General 
of Examinations shall take action to hold the examination 
in Colombo at the occasions where a sufficient number 
of applications are not received to organize examination 
centers in all majority of the towns proposed for the 
purpose.
03. the secretary, ministry of Public administration 
and management reserves the right to postpone or cancel 
the examination subject to the instructions of the Public 
service commission.
04. 50% of vacancies existing in supra Grade of Public 
management assistants' service as at 31/12/2017 shall be 
filled on the results of a limited competitive examination. 
candidates shall secure at least 40 marks for each subject 
relevant to the exami nation in order to pass the limited 
competitive examination. the eligible applicants shall be 
appointed after verification of qualifications by an Interview 
board appointment by the Public service commission. the 
interview shall be held only for the purpose of examining 
the certificates by which the qualifications of the applicants 
are to be verified and no marks shall be allocated at the 
interview.
05. the salary segment mN 7 - 2016 of Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 is 
entitled to this post and accordingly, the monthly salary 
scale shall be Rs. 41,580 - 11x755 - 10x1080 - 68,425. you 
are entitled to the said salary from 01.01.2020. salaries are 
paid to you from the effective date of the appointment as 
per the provisions of schedule ii of the said circular. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2186
06. Qualifications.– Officers who belong to the 
combined service who have completed a satisfactory 
service of 05 years immediately preceding the application 
closing date shall strictly be eligible to sit for this 
examination.
 (a) Shall have been an officer in Grade I of the Public 
management assistants' service
 (b) Shall have been an Grade II officer of Public 
management assistants' service who has 
completed an active and satisfactory service of at 
least not less than eight (08) years
or
 (c) Shall have been an officer of Public Management 
assistants' service who has possessed a degree 
from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission and completed an active and 
satisfactory service of 05 years.
07. Method of application :
 (a) the application shall be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification. It should 
be prepared by the candidate himself on paper 
of size 25.5cm x 21 cm (a4 paper) using both 
sides in such a way that Nos. 01 to 04 appear 
on the 1st page, Nos. 05 to 10 on the 2nd page 
and the remaining numbers on the 3rd page. it is 
the responsibility of the candidate to make sure 
that the application complies with the specimen 
indicated in the Exam Notification. Applications 
that do not comply with the specimen or that have 
not been completed properly shall be rejected 
without notice. it is essential to mention the name 
of the examination in English language as well, in 
applications prepared in both sinhala and tamil 
mediums. the application shall be prepared in the 
same language in which the candidate intends to 
sit for the examination. (it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the perfected application with the 
candidate)
 (b) applications perfected by candidates shall be 
forwarded to the head of department along 
with a photocopy. once his/her recommendation 
is obtained, the photocopy shall be filed in the 
personal file of the candidate while the original 
shall be sent through the respective head of 
department to reach
 The Commissioner General of Examinations,
 Organization and foreign Examinations branch,
 Department of Examinations,
 P. O. box 1503,
 Colombo.
before 30/10/2017 by Registered Post. copies of 
applications other than the application sent through 
the head of department should not be sent personally. 
applications received after the closing date shall be 
rejected. the respective head of department should certify 
that the application has been perfected in every respect 
and shall place his signature on the certificate indicated in 
No. 14 of the specimen application. No application shall 
be sent to the private address of the Commissioner 
General of Examinations or any other officer of the 
said Department. the top left corner of the envelope 
containing the application should clearly bear the words 
"Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment 
to Supra Grade of Public management Assistant's 
Service - 2017". the post and the service station of the 
applicant at the time of applying for the examination shall 
be applicable to all matters related to the examination and 
any change made in this regard after sending applications 
shall not be considered.  
 (c) (i) Examination fee shall not be charged from the 
candidates who sit for the examination for the 
first time; namely candidates who did not sit 
for the Limited competitive Examination for 
promotion to supra class of General clerical 
service held in 1980, 1982, 1983, 1984, 
1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1996, 
1999 or 2001, candidates who did not sit for 
a Limited competitive Examination of supra 
class of Government typists' service held in 
1985 and 1996, candidates who did not sit for 
a Limited competitive Examination of supra 
class of Government stenographers' service 
held in 1996 and candidates who did not sit 
for a Limited competitive Examination of 
supra class of Government book - keepers' / 
shroffs' or store-keepers' service held in 1999 
and candidates who did not sit for the Limited 
competitive Examination for promotion to 
supra class of Pmas held in 2006, 2007, 2011 
and 2015.
  (ii) Examination fee is Rs. 600/-. further, the 
said fee shall be paid to any Post/ sub Post 
Office to be credited to revenue head 2003-
02-13 and the receipt obtained in favour of the 
applicant shall be affixed in the relevant cage 
of the application so as not to be detached. 
money orders and stamps shall not be accepted 
and the examination shall not be refunded or 
transferred for another examination under 
no circumstance. it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2187
 (d) complaints on applications or any relevant 
document getting lost or delayed in the post shall 
not be entertained.
 (e) Receipt of application shall not be acknowledged.
08. Admission to the examination:
 (a) commissioner General of Examinations shall issue 
admission cards to all the candidates who have 
paid examination fees, completed the application 
form properly and sent before due date. a 
candidate presenting himself for the examination 
shall get his signature on the admission card 
attested in advance and produce his admission 
card to the supervisor of the examination center 
on the first day of the examination. Any candidate 
who fails to produce his admission card shall not 
be permitted to sit for the examination.
 (b)  candidates must sit for the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him. a set of rules to 
be followed by all candidates is published in this 
Gazette. candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting the examination and 
they are liable to a punishment imposed by him for 
breach of these rules and regulations.
 (c) A notification shall be published in newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as soon as the 
admission cards are issued to candidates. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 
days of such advertisement, steps should be taken 
to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. It would 
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the 
time of calling the department of Examinations 
stating your full name, address, national identity 
card number and name of the examination: i. e. 
certified photocopies of the application form 
and the receipt kept at your possession. in case 
of applicants outside colombo, letter of request 
furnishing the above particulars and a fax number 
to which a copy of the admission card is to be sent 
should be sent to the department of Examinations 
through fax.
Note: Issuance of admission card to the 
examination does not necessarily mean that the 
candidate is eligible to sit for the examination.
09. Identity of candidates.– a candidate shall be 
required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he offers. for 
this purpose, any one of the following documents shall be 
accepted.
 (a) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a  valid passport.
10. Penalty for furnishing false information :
 (a) if a candidate is found to be ineligible in 
accordance with the rules and regulations of this 
examination, his/ her candidature is liable to be 
cancelled at any state prior to, during or after the 
examination.
 (b) if the particulars furnished by a candidate are 
subsequently found to be false or if it is found 
that he/ she has willfully suppressed any material 
fact he or she shall no longer be considered for 
an appointment. furthermore, he or she shall be 
liable for dismissal from the Public service or 
cancellation of any appointment made on this 
examination.
11. Language medium of the examination .– the 
examination shall be held in sinhala, tamil and English 
languages. candidates should sit the examination in the 
language medium in which they sat for the examination 
for recruitment to the service or in one of the official 
languages. the language medium of examination indicated 
initially shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
12. Scheme of examination.– the Written Examination 
shall consist of the following subjects :–
 Question Paper Duration Total 
   Marks
1. Office Management 02 hours 100
2. Office Systems 02 hours 100
3. Establishment procedures and 02 hours 100
  Procedural rules
4. Public finance management 02 hours 100
5. General Paper 1 1/2 hours 100
13. Syllabus.– Knowledge in the following subjects is 
expected from the candidates.
 (i) Office Management (Duration - 02 hours, 
marks - 100)
  organization structure, principles of 
organization, task analysis and task evaluation, 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2188
leadership supervision and decision making, 
communication, public relations, co-ordination 
and problem solving.
 (ii) Office system (Duration - 02 hours,                            
marks - 100)
  
  Principles of office systems, office procedures, 
document and filing, planning and handling of 
forms, office correspondence, control over the 
utilization of office equipment, office layout and 
environment, job description, study on work and 
systems, work measurement, Manual of Office 
operations.
 (iii) Establishments procedures and procedural 
rules (Duration - 02 hours, marks - 100)
  Procedures to be followed when making 
recruitment to public service, establishments 
activities of public officers, maintaining a 
personal file, vesting of powers for the tasks 
such as appointment, transfers, promotion and 
termination of service of public servants, welfare 
of public servants, privileges entitles to public 
officers. General knowledge of the regulations 
and circulars that have been already issued by 
the Government shall be tested.
 (iv) Public financial management (Duration - 02 
hours, marks - 100)
 
  Responsibilities of an Accounting Officer and 
Annual Estimates, financial control, delegation 
of responsibilities on financial matters, receipt 
of money, accounting, acceptance of money, 
payments, custody of public money, imprest 
and bank accounts, supplies and services, 
tender procedures, board of surveys, audit 
queries, ledgers and summaries of income 
and expenditure of government offices, bank 
reconciliation, books on financial management, 
regulations and circulars issued on utilization of 
Public finance so far by the government.
 (v) General paper (Duration - 1 1/2 hours, marks 
- 100)
 
  the nature of Public administration, structure 
of Public administration, Public policies 
and new public reforms, fundamental rights, 
human rights, human Rights commission, 
ombudsman, Public Petitions committee of the 
Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, 
making office environment properly, welfare 
activities of the staff, recognition of civil and 
official status in the aspect of social science and 
the duties of public officers towards recipients. 
14. Selection for appointment :
 (i) a  candidate shall secure at least 40 marks for each 
subject in order to pass the above examination 
and to be called for the interview. on the order 
of total marks secured at the examinations, 
candidates shall be called for an interview 
which shall be conducted by an interview board 
appointed by the Public services commission for 
verification of qualifications. No marks shall be 
allocated at such interview. selected candidates 
are liable to serve in offices situated in any part 
of the island where vacancies exist. appointment 
of any candidate shall be cancelled, if he/ she 
refuses to assume duties at the respective office. 
At such occasions, vacancies shall be filled by 
calling other candidates in the order of marks.
 (ii) it is compulsory to serve at least 03 years at the 
service station to which the candidate gets the 
first appointment. However, the Appointment 
Authority reserves the right to transfer an officer 
before the completion of the said period on 
special grounds determined by the appointing 
authority.
 (iii) the result sheet including the names of the 
candidates who become qualified from the 
written test shall be submitted to the secretary, 
Public service commission on the notice of the 
Public service commission. the results of the 
remaining candidates shall be published in the 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk or they shall 
be informed personally.
15. conducting of this examination and promotion 
to supra Grade shall be made subject to the general 
conditions governing the appointments of public service, 
rules and regulations stipulated in the Public management 
assistants' service minute published in the Gazette 
extraordinary of the democratic socialist Republic of sri 
Lanka No. 1840/34 dated 11th of december 2013 and any 
amendment already made and shall be made thereto in due 
course.
16. the Public services commission reserves the right 
to refrain from filling some or all of the vacancies and also 
to decide on the matters not provided for is respect of these 
regulations. 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2189
17. in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public services commission.
 J. J. rathNaSiri,
 secretary,
 ministry of Public administration and management.
ministry of Public administration and management,
independence square,
colombo 07,
15th september 2017.
 For office use only
Limited Competitive Examination for Appointment to Supra Grade of Public 
management Assistants' Service - 2017
Language medium of Examination  indicate the town and the town number in which the
sinhala  - 2 candidate intends to sit the examination as per the
Tamil  - 3 notification of calling for application
English  - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage Name of town town Number
01. indicate whether you belong to the combined service or to which provincial public service you belong:
 (indicate the number relevant to the public service to which you belong)
 (Western Provincial Public service-01, central Provincial Public service-02, southern Provincial Public service-03, 
Northern Provincial Public service-04, Eastern Provincial Public service-05, North Western Provincial Public 
service-06, North central Provincial Public service-07, uva Provincial Public service-08,sabaragamuwa  
Provincial  Public service-09, combined service-10)
02.  2.1 Name, with initials at the end:mr,/mrs./miss. :–––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals) eg.: siLVa, a.b.c.d
  2.2 Name in full (in English) :–––––––––––.
  2.3 Name in full (in sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––.
  2.4 N.i.c. Number : 
03.  3.1 Official address (In English block capital) :–––––––––––.
   (admission card will be sent to this address)
  3.2 Permanent address (in English block capital) :–––––––––––.
  3.3 Permanent address (in sinhala/tamil):–––––––––––.
  3.4 telephone number :
04. date of birth : y ear  month  date
05. sex (indicate relevant number in the cage) :
 femal-1 male-0
 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2190
06. marital stautes: single-1  married-2  (indicate relevant Number in the cage)
07. age as at the application closing date : 
     years  months  days
08. have you sat for any of the following examinations? Examinations for recruitment to G.c.s. held in 1980, 1982, 
1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, 1989, 1991, 1996, 1999, 2001/ Examination for recruitment to Government 
typists' service held in 1985, 1999/ Examination for recruitment to Government stenographers' service held in 
1996/ Examination for recruitment to Government book-keepers service held in 1999/ Examination for recruitment 
to Government shroffs' service held in 1999/Limited competitive Examination for Promotion to supra class of the 
Public management assistants' service held in 2006, 2007, 2011, 2015 :––––––––.
09.  (i) date of appointment to Public management assistants' service/General clerical service / Government typists' 
service / Government stenographers' service / Government book keepers' service / Government  shroffs' 
service /Government store-keepers' service :––––––––.
  (ii) total period of service as at the application closing date : y ears  months  day
  (iii) No pay leave obtained during the 05 years immediately preceding :––––––––.
  (iv) Period of active service as at the application closing date : y ears  months  days
  (v) Date of confirmations in the post of Public Management Assistants' Service/General Clerical Service/Government 
typists' service/ Government stenographers' service / Government book keepers' service / Government  
shrooffs' service/Government store-keepers' service :––––––––.
  (vi) Present class and the date of appointment to the same class :––––––––.
  (vii) if possessing a degree, the year and the name of the university :––––––––.
  (viii) Effective date of the degree :––––––––.
10.  (i) Language medium in which the candidate sat the competitive examination to enter Public management 
assistants' service/General clerical service / Government typists' service / Government stenographers' 
service/ Government book keepers' service / Government  shroffs' service/Government store-keepers' service 
:––––––––.
  (ii) if the candidate was recruited to  General clerical service / Government typists' service/ Government 
stenographers' service / Government book keepers' service / Government  shroffs' service/Government store-
keepers' service  without holding a competitive examination, language medium in which the candidate obtained 
qualifications to enter the service :––––––––.
11. Cleary indicate the address of the office and the Head of the Institution where your personal file is maintained :–––––.
12. Affix the cash receipt firmly :
Affix the cash receipt obtained after payment of examination fee so as not to be detached. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
13. Certificate of the Candidate :
i certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief that all the increments falling due within the 05 years 
immediately preceding the application closing date have been earned by me (except increments for which the passing 
of departmental service Examinations has been prescribed) and that i have not suffered any disciplinary punishment 
whatsoever during the same period.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2191
i declare that i am eligible to sit for this examination and the information given in this form is true and that since, 
I am sitting for this examination for the first time, the fee should not be paid/the cash receipt of No. ……………… Dated 
…………… obtained on payment of examination fee is affixed hereto*. If it is found that, I am ineligible according 
to the service minute relating to this examination, i agree to be bound by any decision that may be taken to cancel my 
candidature, at any state prior to, during or after the examination, further, i also agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination and the decisions 
taken on issuance of the results.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––.
14. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that the candidates Mr./Mrs./Miss*……………………………………..has been serving in this office 
since……………………….he/she* has completed a satisfactory service of five years as at…………………. that the 
particulars furnished in the application have been checked personally by me with the documents available in the office 
and were found to be correct, he/she* is eligible for exemption from examination fees since she/he* is appearing for 
the examination for the  first time / he/ she* has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the receipt on the 
application, he/she* has satisfied requisite qualifications to sit for the examination as per the relevant Gazette notification, 
an endorsement to that effect has been entered in the history  sheet of the officer as per circular letter of Commissioner 
General of Examinations No. 13 dated 02.10.1972 and he/she* has singed before me on ……………… Reference No. of 
the Director General of Combined Services and the date of the letter of absorption of this officer to Public Management 
assistants' service are ………………….. and ………………… respectively.
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of head of institution.
date :–––––––––.
Name :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
address :–––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
* delete the inappropriate words.
09-881
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of INTERNAL AffAIRS, WAyAmbA DEvELOPmENT AND CuLTuRAL  AffAIRS
Applications are invited for the following vacancies in the Department of National museums
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called by the commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the department of National 
Museums for, from citizens of Sri Lanka for the purpose of filling the following vacancies existing the Department of 
National museums. Examination will be held in colombo in a certain date in January 2018 by the commissioner General 
of Examination.
1. Supervisory management Assistant (Technological) Service :
 museum curator - Number of vacancies  06
 Entomology assistant  - Number of vacancies 02
 botanical science assistant  - Number of vacancies  01
 anthropology assistant - Number of vacancies  01
 Zoology assistant - Number of vacancies  01
 conservation assistant  - Number of vacancies 01
 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2192
 1.1  Educational Qualifications :- 
  Should have passed six (06) subjects in one sitting at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) 
with credit pass in sinhala/tamil/English, mathematics and in two more subjects.
  Shall have passed three (03) subjects in one sitting at the General Certificate of Education (Advance Level) 
including two (02) subjects in the relevant field. (qualifications as follows) 
  Qualifications.- General Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination
 Designation Qualification General Certificate of Education (Advance Level)  Examination
Entomology assistant shall have passed two subjects in biological stream in one sitting at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination. (According to the old syllabus 
shall have passed three (03) subjects including zoology)
Anthropology Assistant Shall have passed two subjects in Art stream in one sitting at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) Examination. (according to the old syllabus shall have 
passed three (03) subjects)  
Zoology assistant shall have passed two subjects in biological stream in one sitting at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination including  Biology. (According 
to the old syllabus shall have passed three (03) subjects including Zoology)
botanical science assistant shall have passed two subjects in biological stream in one sitting at the  General 
Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination including  Biology. (According 
to the old syllabus shall have passed three (03) subjects including botanical science)
conservation assistant shall have passed two subjects in biological stream in one sitting at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination including Chemistry.  (According 
to the old syllabus shall have passed three (03) subjects including chemistry)
museum curator shall have passed two subjects in biological stream in one sitting at the General 
Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination including Biology.
 or
 shall have passed two (02) subjects in one sitting in art stream including history at the 
General Certificate of Education (Advance Level) Examination (In old syllabus shall 
have passed three (03) subjects including the above mentioned subjects) 
 1.2  Professional Qualifications :- 
 Designation Qualification 
Entomology assistant follow a diploma in national technological (agriculture) in the institute of hardy at   
  ampara.
Zoology assistant follow a diploma in national technological (agriculture) in the institute of hardy at   
  ampara. 
botanical science assistant follow a diploma in national technological (agriculture) in the institute of hardy at   
  ampara. 
Note -   The following vacancies will be filled only for the Trainee Grade such as; Anthropology Assistant, 
conservation assistant and museum curator.
  Vacancies will be filled when complete the initial education qualifications mention in 1.1 with the professional 
qualifications according to the 1.2 in the Technical Segment III for the post of Entomology Assistant, Zoology 
assistant and botanical science assistant.
  If not complete the professional qualifications vacancies will be filled for the training category only.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2193
 1.3  Other Qualifications :
 (a)  candidates should be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 (b)  the applicants shall bear an excellent moral character.
 (c)  should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45 years of age on 30th october 2017. (Person 
who were born before 30th october 1999 and who were born after october 30th 1972 can only 
apply)
 (d)  Must complete all the qualification on the closing date.
2.0 Salary scale. -mN3-2016 - Rs: 310,400-10x445-11x660-10x730-10x750- Rs. 57,550.
 according to the Public administration circular No. 03/2016, dated 25th february 2016, and placed on the 
relevant salary step for Grade iii. candidates who recruited under the trainee Grade will be paid allowances for the 
training period according to the circular.
3.0 Method of recruitment .-Vacancies will be filled on the results of the written examination and a general 
interview. Number of candidates equal to the number to be filled, of the candidates who obtain the highest marks of a 
written examination, will be recruited in the order of merits. only to ascertain.
 3.1  Written examination :
  Subject  Time Maximum Marks required for 
     marks obtainable a pass
1. intelligent test  01hr 100 40
2. technical paper based on the subjects 01hr 100 40 
 3.2  Syllabus for the written examination :-
  Test paper Syllabus Time
1. intelligent test consists of question to judge the rationality, ability of thought and 01 hr
 ability to take decision of the candidate.
   
2. technical paper based a  question paper made in multiple choice method consist of  01 hr
  on the subject 15 question in general knowledge and other 25 questions based
 on the relevant field. The subjects of the field as follows :-
 syllabus relevant to each post 
 1. Entomology assistant
  1. Knowledge about the class  - insect, Phylum - arthropod in a Kingdome of  
    animals.
  2. Knowledge about the handling of laboratory tools
  3. check the basic knowledge about the environmentalism.
 2. anthropology assistant
  1. check the basic knowledge about the traditional social events and artistic   
   creations.
  2. knowledge about the handling of laboratory tools.
  3. check the basic knowledge about environmentalism.
 3. Zoology assistant
  1. check the knowledge about the kingdome of animals.
  2. check the knowledge about the handling of laboratory tools.
  3. test the basic knowledge of environmentalism.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2194
 4. botanical science assistant
  1.Check the knowledge about the Kingdome of floristic.
  2. Knowledge about the handling of laboratory tools.
  3. check the basic knowledge about the environmentalism.
 5. conservation assistant
  1. basic knowledge about chemistry.
  2. check the knowledge about the handling of laboratory tools and relevant 
    technical methods.
 6. museum curator
  science section-basic knowledge about zoology and botany. cultural section-
   knowledge about the cultural events in sri Lanka and history of sri  Lanka.
4.0 examination procedure :-
 (i)  this examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English mediums. the medium applied for will not 
be allowed to change subsequently. candidates may sit this examination in only one language medium 
of their preference. should answer all papers in a one medium. Every candidates should answer all 
papers.
 (ii) Examination fees is Rs. 600. It should be paid at any post office/sub post office to be credited to revenue 
head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt obtained in the name of 
the applicant should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application form so as not to be detached. 
money orders and stamps are not accepted as exam fees. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt.
 (iii) the fees shall not be paid back or shall not be allowed to transfer in respect of any other examination 
under any circumstances.
 (iv) this examination will be held in colombo in January 2018. the commissioner general of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates who have forwarded duly filled applications along with the 
receipt if payment of examinations along with the receipt of payment of examination fee on or before the 
closing date of examination mentioned in the notification and on the presumption that only those who 
possess the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As soon as the admission 
cards are issue to candidates, department of Examinations will publish a paper notice announcing 
the same. if the admission card is not received within 2 or 3 days after the paper announcement it 
should be inquired from the organizations and foreign Examination division of the department of 
the Examination. In the manner as mention in notification. The applicant should correctly mention 
the name of the examination applied for, full name of the applicant, national identity card number and 
address when making such inquiry. in case of applicant outside colombo, it would be advisable to make 
the request sending a letter of request stating the same to the fax number mentioned in the notification 
along with the fax number to which a copy of the admission card can be sent promptly. it would be 
useful to have the following documents in hand at the time of calling the department of examinations. 
i.e. a photocopy of the application form, receipt of payment of examination fees (if applicable) and 
receipt of registration. further issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean 
that the candidate is eligible to set for the examination or eligible for the post. 
 (v) this examination shall be conducted by the commissioner General of Examination and regulations 
prescribed by him in respect of conducting the examination and issuance of result. the candidates shall 
be subjected to the punishment imposed by the commissioner General of Examination, if such rules are 
violated by them. Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at the beginning of this Gazette 
notification.  
  Test paper Syllabus  

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2195
 (vi) Result of the examination-candidates who obtained not less than 40 marks or the number of the names 
equal to the existing number of vacancies listed will be provided to the director of the National 
museums. steps will be taken to inform the result to the each applicant personally or via the website www.
results.exames.gov.lk
 
 Note.- candidates who are sitting for the examination must get his signature on the admission card attested in 
advance and produce to the supervisor for the examination.
 4.2 Conditions of employment and Conditions of Service.– this post is permanent. appointment will be on 
probation for a period of 03 years. you shall be subject to the decision of the policy of pension scheme 
by the government in the future. the candidates who will be appointed shall contribute for the Widows/
Widowers and orphan's pension system.
5.0  Mode of forwarding application :
 5.1 applications prepared according to the under mention specimen form, in a4 size paper using both 
sides, duly filled in his hand writing. The name of the examination should fill in the application Sinhala 
medium applications also in both Sinhala and English; and Tamil medium candidates also in both Tamil 
and English too. applications not completed in each ways will be rejected without informing. double 
check before post the application whether dully filled and affix the receipt accordingly. Include section 
01 to 08 in the first page, from section 09 to 14 in 2nd page and from 15th section to 18th in 3rd page. 
having a copy of the application and the receipt would be useful.
 5.2 Duly filled applications should be sent under the registered cover on or before 30th October 2017 
to reach commissioner General of Examinations, organization and foreign Examination branch, 
department of Examinations, Palawaththa, baththaramulla. a candidate can apply for one post only. 
 5.3 applications not completed in each ways and received delay will be rejected without informing. Receipt 
of applications will not be acknowledge.
 5.4 t op of the left hand corner of the envelop which enclosed the application should be mentioned clearly 
as "Recruitment to the post of supervisory management assistant (technological) service"
6 . Attesting the Signature :-
 • signature of candidate should be attested by a principal of Government school, a Justice of peace, a 
chief priest of a buddhist temple or in charge of a holy place of any other religion, or a permanent staff 
officer in public service with annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360.00 or above. Officers who are 
already in public service should submit applications through their heads of the department.
 • candidates will be required to prove their identity in the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose any of the following documents will only be 
accepted:
 (i) the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a valid passport.
7.0  Other.- in case of an inconsistency between sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. Director of the Department of National Museum reserves the right fill vacancies.
 director (Acting),
 department of National museum.
No. 854,
sir marcus fernando mawatha,
colombo 07.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2196
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN
aN applicatioN for the poSt of....................................
          
 For office use only
01. medium of the Examination :
 sinhala-2 t amil-3  English-4     (insert the relevant Number in the cage.)
02. Post applying for  (insert the relevant Number in the cage.)
   1 - museum curator
   2 - Entomology assistant
   3 - botanical science assistant
   4 - anthropology assistant
   5 - Zoology assistant
   6 - conservation assistant
03. Name of the applicant :
  3.1 Name with initials:
    (i) sinhala/t amil :––––––––––.
    (ii) English (iN bLocK LEttERs) :––––––––––.
  3.2 Names denoted by the initials:-
    (i) sinhala/t amil :––––––––––.
    (ii) English (iN bLocK LEttERs) :––––––––––.
 
04. address which send the admission card:-
  (i) English (iN bLocK LEttERs) :––––––––––.
  (ii) sinhala/t amil :––––––––––.
05. National identity card Number :-
06. sex:  male   - 0  
   female  - 1  (insert the relevant Number in the cage.)
07. address:-
  (i) Personal address :––––––––––.
  (ii) district :––––––––––.
  (iii) Official Address :––––––––––.
08. Telephone No. : Personal :––––––––––.    Official :––––––––––.
09. date of birth: y ear month date
 age on 30th october 2017: y ears months days
10. civil status: married/ single :––––––––––.
11. Nationality: decent/ Registration :––––––––––.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2197
12. Education Qualifications:-
  i. G. c. E. (o/L) Examination: ii.  G. c. E. (a/L) Examination:
   index No. :––––––––––.    year :––––––––––.  index No. :––––––––––.  year :––––––––––.
   medium :––––––––––.  medium :––––––––––.
  Subject Grade   Subject     Grade
 1 ....................... ......................  1 ....................... ......................
 2 ....................... ......................  2 ....................... ......................
 3 ....................... ......................  3 ....................... ......................
 4 ....................... ......................  4....................... ......................
 5 ....................... ......................
 6 ....................... ......................
 7 ....................... ......................
 8 ....................... ......................
13. Professional Qualifications & skills:-
  Course Institute Subjects Achievement
14. Experience:-
     Position Organization Period of employment
15. The receipt which paid the exam fees bearing Number................................   affix here
16. if employee somewhere, details about it:
  1. Name of the position and grade :–––––––––––.
  2. date of appointment :–––––––––––.
  3. Name of the organization :–––––––––––.
  4. Either it is pensionable post or not :–––––––––––.
Candidate's certificate :
 i have hereby certify that the particular furnished by me in this application are true and correct according to my 
knowledge. i am aware that if any particulars contained therein are found to false and incorrect before the selection i am 
liable to disqualify and dismissal if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2198
17. attestation of the signature of the candidate:
 i, do hereby certify that mr./ mrs./ miss ................................................................... is personally known to me 
and placed his/ her signature in my presence on ..............................
    ––––––––––––––,
    Signature of certifying Officer.
date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the certifying officer :–––––––––––.
designation : (Rubber stamp) :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
18. (this part is applicable only for candidates who engage in Government employment)
 Attestation of the Head of the Department/ Institution :
 i, hereby certify that mr./ mrs./ miss .................................. who is working in this ministry/ department/ institution, 
is working in the post of ................................. and his/ her work and conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action 
pending against him/ her and no decision has been taken to impose any such in the future. if he/ she will be selected for 
this post, he/she can/ cannot be released from the service.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the head of the department or 
 Authorized Officer.
 Rubber stamp.
date :––––––––––––.
09–851
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of INDuSTRy AND COmmERCE
Department of measurement units, Standards 
and Services 
ñkqï tAll" m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wdY%s; 
ks,Odß fiajd .Kfha ñkqï úoHd mÍlaIK ks,Odß 
^fomd¾;fïka;=.;& ;k;=r i|yd jk n|jd .ekSfï 
újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2017
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN foR thE 
REcRuitmENt to thE Posts of mEtRoLoGy 
ExPERimENtaL officERs (dEPaRtmENtaL) 
of   dEPaRtmENt of mEasuREmENt uNits, 
staNdaRds aNd sERVicEs -2017
aPPLicatioNs are called for the open competitive 
Examination for the Recruitment to the Posts of metrology 
Experimental Officers (Departmental) of   Department of 
measurement units, standards and services -2017 to be 
held in January 2018. the applications prepared according 
to the specimen application mentioned at the end of this 
notice should be sent to “commissioner General of 
Examinations, organization and foreign Examinations 
branch, Exam ination department of sri Lanka, P.o. 
box 1503, colombo” to be reached on or before 09th 
November, 2017.  Posts of metrology Experimental 
Officers (Departmental) should be mentioned on the top of 
the left hand corner of the envelop. 
01. Conditions for recruitment and service conditions:
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made for the W&oP. 
 (ii) The officers who joined the service in a language 
not an official language should get the official 
language efficiency during the probation period 
and the official language efficiency of the 
relevant level according to the related Public 
administration circulars and related circulars.
02. Salaries and allowances : :
monthly salary scale relevant to the post.  

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2199
under the Public administration circular No. 
3/2016  mN 4-2016 - Rs. 31,490 -10 x 445 –                             
11 x 660 - 10 x 730 - 05x 750 - Rs. 54,250.00 
and it is entitled with effect from 01.01.2010. in 
terms of provisions on the sub schedule ii of this 
circular, salaries are paid with effect from the date 
on which the appointment is effective in terms of 
the sub schedule ii if this circular.  
The 1st efficient bar before lapse of three years (03) 
from the recruitment to the Grade III,  2nd efficient bar 
before lapse of three years (03) from promotion to the 
Grade II, 3rd efficient bar before lapse of five years (05) 
should be passed.  
03. Educational Qualifications :
 having a master degree where the subject of 
Physics has been studied for at least 2 years in 
a recognized university.  
04. Other qualifications :
 (i) should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 (ii) age should be 21-35 years to the last date of 
receiving applications.  (accordingly only 
those who have born 25.09.1996 or before 
and on 25.09.1982 and after that are qualified 
to apply for this.)  
 (iii) should have an excellent character and a 
good health condition. 
05. method of recruitment.– the applicants who have 
been fulfilled the above qualifications will be recruited upon 
results of a written examination and a structured interview. 
the written examination will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations or an institution approved 
by the Public services commission and 40% marks 
or more should be obtained per each subject to pass the 
examination. according to the total marks of the applicants 
who have passed all the subjects the number of applicants 
up to two fold of the number of the vacancies are called 
for the interview.  the structured interview will be held 
by an institution approved by the director of measurement 
units, standards and services, maximum marks of 25 
can be obtained. Recruitment will be made according to 
the total marks obtained at the written examination and 
structured interview and the result sheet will be sent to all 
the applicants to their private addresses or published in the 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk  by the commissioner 
General of Examinations after their results are submitted 
to the measurement units, standards and services  
department.  the decision of the commissioner General 
of Examinations regarding the conduct of examination and 
issue of results is the final. 
 06. this examination will be held in the towns mentioned 
below.  the applicants should select the closest towns as 
their examination centers. the selected town and town 
numbers should be mentioned in the application according 
to the table mentioned below.  the towns selected are not 
allowed to be changed later.  
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
mannar 11
mulathivu 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttlam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
If sufficient number of applicants are not available 
for an examination center the applicants are referred to 
another center in a town closer to that.  If sufficient number 
of applicants have not applied for all the towns and many 
of them, the commissioner General of Examinations will 
make arrangements to conduct the examination only in 
colombo. 
07. Written Examination.– the examination will 
be held in sinhala, tamil and English.  the medium of 
language applied is not allowed to change later. all the 
question papers should be answered in the medium itself 
applied by the applicant.  

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2200
there are two question papers. 
01. iQ – total marks 100. 1 hour. 
     this question paper including ability of rational 
thinking, general knowledge, general iQ and 
ability to take decisions is consisted with 50 
questions - multiple and short answers.  all the 
questions should be answered.  
02. General knowledge – total marks 100 . 1 hour. 
50 questions - multiple and short answers to check 
the knowledge on political, social, cultural and 
economic situation in sri Lanka and latest news 
regarding National and international matters and 
knowledge in National, International scientific 
and industrial development are included in this 
question paper.   all the questions should be 
answered.  
Structured interview (maximum marks - 25) 
maximum marks of 25 are given for computer 
literacy, English language proficiency, talent 
achieved by facing the interview.  
08. Application and method of application.– 
From No. 01 to 09 should be in the first page and from 
No. 10 to 16 in the second page and the rest in the third 
page of the application and should be filled clearly in 
own handwriting. the applications not complying to the 
specimen application form and incomplete applications 
will be rejected without notice. so, before the application 
is forwarded confirm whether the application is complied 
with the specimen form and completed and the duly 
complied receipt of payment of examination fee has been 
pasted.  Keeping a photocopy of the application will be 
useful.  further, when the application is prepared the name 
of the examination should be mentioned on the top of the 
application in English except sinhala and except tamil in 
tamil language applications.  the receipt of application 
will not be informed.  
09. Application of officers who are already in the 
government service /provincial government service/ state 
corporations should be forwarded through their heads of 
institutions. 
10. admission cards for the examination will be posted 
by the commissioner General of Examinations to all 
the applicants who have paid the due examination fee 
and submitted the applications on or before the due date 
on assumption that only those who have qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette notification have applied. As 
soon as the admission cards are issued for the applicants 
a newspaper advertisement will be published by the 
department of Examinations mentioning that. if the 
admission cards are not received even after two or three days, 
it should be informed to the department of Examinations.  
if the admission cards are not received even after lapse of 
two or three days, it should be informed to the department 
of Examinations as mentioned in the notice. you are 
informed to contact the department of Examinations with 
the copy of the application, copy of the receipt of payment 
of examination fee, receipt of registration of application 
mentioning the name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, Nic No. and address and if applicants outside 
colombo can contact with an application by fax.  
 10.1 signature of the applicant in the application 
and admission card should have been attested. 
signature of applicants who are already in the 
service of any institution should be attested by 
the head of the institution or an authorized officer 
and the signature of other applicants should be 
attested by a school Principal/retired officer, 
Grama Niladhari of the division, Justice of peace, 
Commissioner of Confirmation, Attorney-at-law, 
Notary public, an authorized officer in the armed 
forces, permanent officer in executive grade in 
public or provincial public service drawing an 
annual consolidated salary of Rs. 240,360 or 
more or incumbent of buddhist temple or a priest 
holding considerable position. 
  Examination fee is Rs. 600.00 and the receipt 
received from any Post office, Sub post office 
in the name of the applicant for payment 
of the examination fee to be credited to the 
Government Revenue under the Revenue head 
of commissioner General of Examinations               
2003-02-13 should be pasted in one corner 
on the due place of the application. it is kindly 
informed that except this any fee is not charged.  
money orders or stamps are not accepted for the 
examination fee and the payment will not be 
refunded or transfer to another examination under 
any circumstances and keeping a photocopy will 
be useful in future.  
11. only the National identity card or valid Passport 
is accepted at the examinations held by the department of 
Examinations of Sri Lanka to confirm the identity of the 
applicant.  issuing an admission card to an applicant is not 
considered that he or she has fulfilled the qualifications for 
the examination or a post. applicants are abiding by the 
laws and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations regarding the conduct of examination and 
issue of results. if the laws and regulations are breached 
they will be subjected to punishments imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. the admission 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2201
card where the signature is attested should be submitted to the head of examination hall on the first day itself of the 
examination.  
12. the authority of taking decisions regarding any matter not covered by this notice is with the director of 
measurement units, standards and services and if any non-conformity among the sinhala, tamil and English notices the 
sinhala version is enforced. 
 s.N. aKuraNtilaKe,
 director of measurement units, standards and services (d.a),
 measurement units, standards and services department.
mahenawatta,
Pitipana, 
homagama,
22nd september, 2017.
SpecimeN applicatioN form
             For office use       
 
ñkqï tAll" m%ñ;s yd fiajd fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wdY%s; ks,OdÍ fiajd .Kfha ñkqï úoHd mÍlaIK ks,OdÍ 
^fomd¾;fïka;=.;& ;k;=r i|yd jk n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2017
opeN competitive examiNatioN for the recruitmeNt to the poStS of metrology experimeNtal officerS (departmeNtal) 
of departmeNt of meaSuremeNt uNitS, StaNdardS aNd ServiceS -2017
 medium of language:
    sinhala  - 2 
                                                                                                                t amil  - 3 
                                                                                                                English - 4 
                                                                                                           (Put the relevant No. in the cage) 
town and town No. expected to sit for the examination :
town town No.                          
(according to the para 06 of the notice)
01. Name with initials in block capitals :––––––––––––––.
 eg. NimaL, a.b.c.d 
02. Names depicted by the initials in block capitals :––––––––––––.
03. Name in full (sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
04. Permanent address in block capitals (admission card will be posted to this address.) :––––––––––––.
05. Gender (male - 0, female - 1)                     
 Put the relevant No. in the cage. 
06. National identity card No. :
07. Whether married or single (married -1, single -2)              
 Put the relevant No. in the cage. 
08. Ethnicity (sinhala-1, tamil-2, indian tamil-3, muslim-4, other-5)                
 Put the relevant No. in the cage

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2202
09.  (a) date of birth :   
    y ear                                     month                       date
     (b) age to the last date of calling applications  (to 09th November, 2017)
                      years                     months                        days 
10.  mention whether you are a citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by registration (if by registration mention the details) 
:–––––––––––––.
11. Educational/Professional qualifications :
 11.1  degree :–––––––––––––. 
university :–––––––––––––. 
 External /internal :–––––––––––––. 
 date of validity of degree  :–––––––––––––. 
 subjects :–––––––––––––. 
 class :–––––––––––––. 
 medium of language of examination :–––––––––––––.
 11.2
highest examination passed
sinhala
tamil
English
 11.3  Other educational /professional qualifications :                                                     
Examination/course Date/Period Institution
12. Present employment and former designation, if any :
Institution Designation  from up to
13. have you been dismissed from any employment in Government service? (if so, mention in detail.) :–––––––––––––.
14. have departmental disciplinary inquiry been held against you (if you are still in Government service) ? :–––––––––––.
15. have you been convicted by any court ? :–––––––––––––. 
16. (i) Post office/sub post office where the examination fee was paid :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) No. of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
 (iii) date :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) amount paid :–––––––––––––.       
Please paste securely the receipt obtained for payment of examination fee 
(Keeping a copy of the receipt with you will be useful)

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2017
2203
17. Certification of the applicant :
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct and the receipt 
No…………….and dated ……………….for payment of examination fee has been pasted on this.  further, i agree to abide 
by the rules and regulations applicable to  candidates regarding the conduct of examination and issue of results.  i also 
agree with any decision taken by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding cancellation of my candidature 
if any disqualification was detected according to the examination rules and regulations when the examination is going on 
or after that. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.
18. Certification of the Head of the Department if the applicant is serving in the Government service:-
i do hereby certify that the details furnished by the applicant are accurate / should be amended as follows, has 
paid the due examination fee and pasted the receipt, his/her work and conduct are ……………… and he/she can /cannot 
be released from the present service. 
 ––––––––––––,
 signature of the head of the department/institution.  
designation :–––––––––––––.
(Official stamp)
date :–––––––––––––.
09–890
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.