

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.01.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2157$43 - 2020 ckjdß ui 09 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2020'01'09
No. 2157/43 -  THURSDAY  JANUARY  09,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
P.S. No : PS/CSA/00/1/14/10
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A- G  31484 — 387  (01/2020)
BY   HIS   EXCELLENCY   GOTABAYA   RAJAPAKSA
 PRESIDENT   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA
To :
1. Hon. K.T. Chithrasiri Esquire
Retired Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Suhada Gamalath Esquire
Retired Solicitor General
3. D.M. Gunasekara Esquire
Senior Banker
GREETINGS:
WHEREAS, alleged wrongdoing, irregularities and malpractice committed in respect of the matters referred to
in the Schedule hereto have been brought to my notice;
AND WHEREAS, noting that the scope of the investigation and inquiry into the said matter under this warrant
would not in any way impose a fetter upon the relevant authorities including the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as “the CBSL”), exercising their statutory and legal responsibilities and also taking note that the relevant
 Seal GOTABAY A R AJAPAKSA

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.01.2020
2A
authorities are empowered in terms of the applicable written laws to consider and, where possible, pursue available
action, in terms of the applicable written laws, notwithstanding the inquiry and investigations conducted in terms of this
warrant;
AND WHEREAS, noting that the investigation and inquiry under this warrant is in addition to and without prejudice
to any measures that have been taken or which may be taken by relevant authorities including the CBSL, in the exercise of
their statutory and legal responsibilities in the aforesaid manner;
AND WHEREAS, it appears to me to be necessary that an investigation and inquiry should be held and information
obtained as to the matters referred to in the schedule hereto and to identify any person or persons, if any, who have been
involved in or responsible for such wrongdoing, irregularities or malpractice committed in respect of such matters, in
case such wrongdoing, irregularities or malpractice are found to be true;
AND WHEREAS, I am of the opinion that it is in the national interest to conduct an investigation and inquiry in
respect of the matters referred to in the schedule hereto, in order to determine whether any remedial and/or preventive
measures should be adopted to ensure that there will be no recurrence of such acts in the future;
WHEREAS, I am of the view that it is necessary that a Commission of Inquiry be appointed to investigate and
inquire into and report on the matters referred to in the schedule hereto;
Now therefore I, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing
great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do, in pursuance of the provisions of Section 2 of the
Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) as amended, by these presents appoint you, the said;
1. Hon. K.T. Chithrasiri Esquire
Retired Judge of the Supreme Court
2. Suhada Gamalath Esquire
Retired Solicitor General
3. D.M. Gunasekara Esquire
 Senior Banker
to be my Commissioners to investigate and inquire into and report on the following namely:
(a) whether there has been any violation of the law in the administration, management, functions and conduct
of affairs of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka in respect of the matters referred to in the schedule hereto;
(b) whether there has been any wrongdoing, malpractice or irregularity, or non-compliance with or disregard
of the procedures established by law applicable in relation to, such administration, management, functions
and conduct of affairs in relation to the matters referred to in the schedule hereto, resulting in damage
or detriment to the Government and/or public;
(c) whether any contractual obligations relating to the matters referred to in the schedule hereto have been
entered into or carried out, fraudulently or dishonestly or negligently, resulting in damage or detriment
to the Government and/or public;
(d) whether there has been non-compliance with, or disregard of, the procedures established by law applicable
to entering into of agreements or contracts relating to the matters referred to in the schedule hereto on
behalf of the Government;
(e) whether such noncompliance with or disregard of procedures established by law in respect of the matters
referred to in the schedule hereto has resulted in the improper or irregular or discriminatory selling of
the establishments referred to in the schedule;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.01.2020
3A
(f) whether procedures established by law have been followed including taking necessary measures in relation
to the matters referred to in the schedule hereto in order to ensure that obtaining the optimum price for
the benefit of the public has been achieved,
(g) the person or persons involved in or responsible for any unlawful act, omission, or conduct, which has
resulted in such damage or detriment to the Government and/or public, in relation to the matters referred
to in the schedule hereto;
(h) whether there has been misuse or abuse of power, influence, interference, fraud, malpractice, nepotism
or any act or omission connected with corrupt activity in relation to the matters referred to in the said
schedule hereto;
And to make recommendations with reference to the matters referred to in the schedule hereto that have been inquired or
investigated into under the terms of this warrant.
And, I do hereby appoint you the said Hon. K.T. Chithrasiri Esquire, Retired Judge of the Supreme Court ,
to be the Chairman of the said Commission.
And, I do hereby authorize and empower you, the said Commissioners, to hold all such inquiries and make all
other investigations, into the aforesaid matters referred to in the schedule hereto as may appear necessary, and require
you to transmit to me within three (03) months from the date of this Warrant a report thereon under your hand, setting
out the findings of your inquiries and investigations, and your recommendations relating thereto.
And, I do hereby direct such part of any investigation or inquiry relating to the matters referred to in the schedule
hereto as you may in your discretion determine, shall not be held in public;
And, I do hereby require and direct all public officers, and other persons to whom you may apply for assistance or
information to render all such assistance and furnish all such information as may be properly rendered and furnished in
that behalf;
And, I do hereby declare that the provisions of Section 14 of the aforesaid Commissions of Inquiry Act shall
apply to the Commission.
Given at Colombo under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on this  09
th day of January,
Two Thousand and Twenty.
By order of His Excellency,
P.B. JAYASUNDERA,
Secretary to the President.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'09
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 09.01.2020
4A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Schedule
1. Alleged wrongdoing, irregularities and malpractice in connection with ETI Finance Ltd. (ETI), a finance company
which was regulated by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and which faced serious financial problems, leading to the
CBSL’s intervention and a sale of the assets of ETI to settle its depositors. These assets included Swarnamahal
Financial Services Plc, EAP Broadcasting Company Limited with its subsidiaries; EAP Films and Theatres Ltd
(and its subsidiaries); Hotel Sapphire (Pvt.) Ltd; Swarnamahal Jewelers Ltd; and other immoveable assets owned
by ETI Finance Plc.
2. The sale of the above establishments to a consortium consisting of Blue Summit Capital; Management Private
Ltd and Ben Holdings Private Ltd. in violation of restrictions under the laws of Sri Lanka on ownership of media
institutions by foreigners.
3. The sale of the assets of ETI to the said party in violation of the laws of Sri Lanka, prohibiting the purchase of
immoveable properties by foreigners.