

<!-- page 1 -->

1A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2023
w;s úfYI
wxl 2318$54 - 2023 fmnrjdß ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2023'02'10
No. 2318/54 -  fridAy , februAry  10,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 6210 — 206 (02/2023)
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  Of  WESTERN  PROVINCE
AmeNded draft Statute of the department of Animal Production and Health, Western Province is stated below. 
 Chandana RanaweeRa aRaChChi,
 Secretary of the ministry of Agriculture, Lands, irrigation,  
 fisheries, Animal Production and Health and  
 Agrarian development of Western Province.
At the ministry of Agriculture, Lands, irrigation, fisheries, 
Animal Production and Health and Agrarian development 
of Western Province, 
Situated at, No. 204, 7th floor,
denzil Kobbekaduwe mawatha,
battaramulla.
10th  february, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2023
2A
Statute of Animal Production and Health of Western Province No. 01 of 2023
A statute to provide provisions to establish the Western Provincial department of Animal Production and 
Health for conserving, protecting, improving  the livestock of Western Province and to prevent animal 
diseases, to treat animals and to facilitate the administration affairs relevant to it including the incidentals 
thereto. 
be it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of democratic Socialist republic of Sri Lanka.
 
1.  This statute is referred to as the Statute of Animal Production and Health of Western Province No. 01 
of 2023 and shall come into operation on the date of receiving the assent of the Governor of Western 
Province. 
PArT i
Establishment of the Western Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health
2.  For the fulfillment of the objectives of this Statute, an office referred to as the Director of Western 
Provincial Animal Production and Health is hereby made and to perform and discharge functions and 
duties of the office, a Department referred to as Western Provincial Department of Animal Production 
and Health is established hereby.
(1)  The director of Animal Production and Health of Western Province shall be the Head of 
Western Provincial department of Animal Production and Health.
(2)  There shall be a staff to execute the powers of the director of Animal Production and Health, 
who is hereinafter referred to as the “director”     
(3)  A Veterinary Medical Officer of Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service -  Grade 1, 
shall   be appointed as the “director”.
(4)  To execute, perform and discharge powers, functions and duties of the director, there shall be 
an Additional Provincial Director, a Subject related Specialist, Deputy Directors, Divisional 
Veterinary Medical Officers and Officers of Animal Husbandry.      
(5)  The director may delegate in writing, the functions and powers vested upon him to the posts 
of Additional Provincial Director, a Subject related Specialist, Deputy Directors, Divisional 
Veterinary Medical Officers and Officers of Animal Husbandry.      
(6)  Provisions of Provincial Council Act No.42 of 1987 shall be applied for appointing,  
transferring, dismissing the staff of the department including the director and for the control 
of discipline regarding the staff and other incidental matters. 
PArT ii
Objectives, Powers and functions of the Department
3. The objectives of the Department are conserving, protecting and enhancing the livestock of the 
province, preventing the diseases of all the animals, making treatments and carrying out technical 
and administration affairs relevant thereto.
4.  The powers of the director shall be as follows,
Short Title and 
the date of 
Operation
The Office of 
the director 
of Western 
Provincial 
Animal 
Production 
and Health, 
establishment 
of the Western 
Provincial 
department 
of Animal 
Production and 
Health and its 
Staff
Objectives of 
the department

<!-- page 3 -->

3A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2023
(1)  Prescribing the standard to be applied for the following institutions and entering to the following 
institutions at any necessary occasion, at any reasonable time of the day for obtaining information 
relevant to the task or for inspecting, checking the necessary documents and for taking them into 
custody. 
(a)  Animal farms that are being conducted within the province;
(b)  Places where animals are fed for animal reproduction, breeding, selling, entertainment and 
for any intention, slaughtering huts and slaughtering centers where animals are butchered;
(c)  Centers where animal feed is produced, stored, accumulated, distributed and sold;
(d)  Hospitals and Centers that are being maintained to treat animals;
(e)  Centers where livestock medicines are produced, stored, accumulated, distributed and sold;
(f)  Centers where livestock products and related products are produced, stored, accumulated, 
distributed and sold,  animal welfare & detention centers. 
(2)  implementing disease prevention programmes, necessary to prevent the diseases communicable 
among animals and diseases communicable to the humans from animals, obtaining samples to 
prevent epidemics and making directions according to the inspections. 
(3)  Controlling the transportation of animals, animal productions, livestock medicines, livestock bio 
products within the province, to the outside of the province and to the province and fulfilling 
incidental matters connected thereto. 
(4)  Controlling the transportation of animals within the province, bringing animals to the province, 
carrying animals to the outside of the province, where an epidemic is spreading in the province. 
(5)  in case of an epidemic is spreading among animals, publishing a gazette notification declaring the 
particular region as an infected area. 
(6)  Registering and regulating the following institutions, which are relevant to the field of livestock 
within the province.
(a)  Animal farms that are being maintained within the province;
(b)  Places where animals are fed for animal reproduction, breeding, selling, entertainment and 
for any intention, slaughtering huts and slaughtering centers where animals are butchered;
(c)  Centers where animal feed is produced, stored, accumulated, distributed and sold;
(d)  Hospitals and Centers that are being maintained to treat animals;
(e)  Centers where livestock medicines are produced, stored, accumulated, distributed and sold;
(f)  Centers where livestock products and related products are produced, stored, accumulated, 
distributed and sold,  animal welfare & detention centers.
(7)   determining and levying the fees for the services rendered by the department. 
(8)   Establishing the divisional and district offices necessary to fulfill the functions mentioned in the 
statute. 
Powers of the 
director

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2023
4A
 (9)  issuing licenses to be issued under this statute. 
 (10)  Consolidating the allegations regarding the offences that can be counted under this statute.  
 (11)  All the powers that are necessary to attain what-so-ever matter that can be counted under the 
objectives mentioned in this Statute. 
5. implementation of the functions of the department within the province shall be as follows. 
 (1)  upgrading the heredity of animals, providing facilities and technology necessary for breeding.
 (2)  Preventing the diseases of all the animals, making treatments, diagnosing and regulating those 
tasks.
 (3)  Providing facilities and technical services necessary for producing, storing, accumulating, 
conserving, transporting, distributing and selling livestock and livestock products. 
 (4)  Providing technical services and facilities necessary for the management of animal farms that are 
being conducted within the province. 
 (5)  introducing programmes on nutrition necessary for the livestock industry, introducing new 
varieties of animal feed, providing culture materials of grass varieties necessary for the province, 
establishing and conserving grasslands. 
 (6)  Conducting studies necessary to uplift the filed of livestock. 
 (7)  On a request of the institution, preparing livestock plans for institutions, matching the requirements 
of such institution, brining the project proposal methods into action and providing assistance for it. 
 (8) Planning, following up and evaluating the development projects relevant to the field of livestock.
 (9)  Providing project services relevant to the field of livestock, implementing awareness programmes 
and training programmes.
 (10)  Implementing environmental and public health & safety programmes relevant to the field of 
livestock. 
 (11)  Maintaining an information center, a data bank, a unit of plans and operations relevant to the field 
of livestock.
 (12)  Managing the human, physical and financial resources necessary to fulfill the objectives of this 
Statute. 
 (13)  maintaining the laboratories and laboratory services.
 (14)  Fulfilling the duty or duties relevant to the statute. 
 (15)  Substantiation before the Court regarding what-so-ever offence under this statute. 
6.  The minister may issue special or general orders in writing, to the department regarding the execution 
of powers of the director and the director shall bring such orders into action. 
7.  The director shall submit an Annual Control report including the details of maintaining the affairs 
of the Department, executing the powers of the Director, actions taken to reach the objectives of this 
statute and proposals, to the Minister in-charge of the Subject,  before exceeding six months counted 
from the end of each year. 
The ministers’ 
ability to issue 
orders
Annual Control 
report

<!-- page 5 -->

5A
IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2023
PArT iii
Registration and Issuance of License
8.  (1)  every institution that engages in under mentioned functions within the province, shall be registered 
in the department and every such registered person shall obtain an annual license. 
 (a)  Animal farms that are being maintained within the province;
 (b)  Places where animals are fed for animal reproduction, breeding, selling, entertainment and 
for any intention, slaughtering huts and slaughtering centers where animals are butchered;
 (c)  Centers where animal feed is produced, stored, accumulated, distributed and sold;
 (d)  Hospitals and Centers that are being maintained to treat animals;
 (e)  Centers where livestock medicines are produced, stored, accumulated, distributed and sold;
 (f)  Centers where livestock products and related products are produced, stored, accumulated, 
distributed and sold,  animal welfare & detention centers.. 
(2)  Conditions and regulations relevant to obtain the registration and license under this section, shall be 
in accordance with the rules enacted by the minister under this statute.
PArT iV
Offences and Penalties
9.  Any of the deeds or omissions mentioned below is an offence  under this Statute and such a person 
shall, on conviction before a Magistrate Court be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees 
(Rs. 50,000/-) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding  six months or to both such fine and 
imprisonment. 
 (1)  Interfering the Director or an officer for whom the power has been delegated in executing powers 
under this statute.
 (2)  Conducting an institution without obtaining a license that shall be obtained under this statute. 
 (3)  Conducting animal clinics, animal hospitals and animal treating centers without a Veterinary 
Medical Officer registered in the Veterinary Council.
 (4)  Treating animals and doing surgeries without the registration or approval of the Veterinary 
Council.
 (5)  issuing, selling livestock medicine, vaccinations without a written prescription of a Veterinary 
Medical Officer registered in   Veterinary Council.
(6)  Giving antibiotics to animals which are bred for meat without the supervision of a Veterinary 
Medical Officer registered in   Veterinary Council.
(7)   Rejecting to provide information, furnishing false information in case of been requested the 
information relevant to fulfill the functions under this statute. 
(8)  Where an area is declared as an infected area by a gazette notification , transporting animals, 
animal productions including prohibited materials to the outside of that area or  to that area.
registration 
and Obtaining a 
License 
Offences and 
Penalties

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  — Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'02'10
Part  IV(A) — GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 10.02.2023
6A
(9)  Violation of rules enacted under this statute. 
10.  under this statute, each person who is guilty for an offence of conducting a premises without a license, 
shall obtain a license from the director during a reasonable time period, after being the offender. in 
case of conducting the business further, without a license, the Director or an officer for whom the 
power has been delegated, shall report it to the magistrate’s Court. The decision of the magistrate’s 
Court to close the business through a completion order ,until a license will be obtained to conduct the 
business from the director is lawful.
PArT V
General
11.  (1)  The minister may, make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Statute and without 
prejudice to the generality of powers conferred under this statute regarding the matters mentioned 
under this Statute and to implement, empower provisions under this Statute, determine work 
procedures relevant to issue a license and to determine the matters related to the registration 
which is under this statute in respect of all or any of the matters.
 (2)  every rule made   by the minister   shall   be published in the Gazette and shall come into 
operation since the date of such publication or a coming date mentioned in the rule.
 (3)  every rule made   by the minister   shall   be laid before the Provincial Council for approval 
within three months of such publication.
 
  If not approved by the Provincial Council,  that shall also be notified by a gazette notification and 
since that day onwards, those regulations shall be considered as repealed yet without causing any 
prejudice to the actions taken so far thereunder.
12.  The Director can receive the financial aids awarded by persons or institutions to fulfill the objectives 
of this Statute and such financial aids shall be credited to the Provincial General Fund.  
13.  All the officers and employees of the Department shall be deemed to be public servants within the 
meaning and for the purposes of the Panel Code and the department shall be deemed to be a Scheduled 
institution within the meaning of bribery Act.  
14.  No suit or prosecution shall lay against any public officer for any act, which in good faith is/isn’t 
done, under this statute. 
15. in this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires, 
“Province” means the Western Province,
“Provincial Council” means the Western Province Provincial Council,
“minister” means the minister of Animal Production and Health of the board of ministers of the 
Western Province,
“Chief Secretary” means the Chief Secretary of the Western Province.
16. in the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala and Tamil text, Sinhala text shall prevail.
Closing the 
business having 
obtained a 
completion 
order
rules
financial 
Provisions for 
the affairs of the 
department
Sinhala Text to 
prevail in case 
of inconsistency
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
officers and 
employees of 
the department 
shall be deemed 
to be public 
servants
eOG 02 – 0117