

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'08'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  30.08.2018
w;s úfYI
wxl 2086$35 - 2018 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2018'08'30
No. 2086/35 -  THURSDAY, AUGUST 30,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG 4196 — 42  (08/2018)
  The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Provincial Councils Notifications
NORTH  WETERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Amendment of the Statue of the Human Resource Development Authority in the North Western Province No ...... 2018 of
the North Western Provincial Council.
IT is hereby notified that the amended  Statue of the Human Resource Development Authority in the North Western Province
No. ....... 2018 of the North Western Provincial Council published hereunder shall be submitted to t he North Western
Provincial Council on completion of thirty days from today and if any person has any objection with regard to the provisions
set out in this Statute such objections should be sent to me before that date .
D. G. B. M. DHARMASIRI DASSANAYAKE,
Chief Minister,
Minister of Finance and Planning, Engineering
Services, Law and Order, Education, Local
Government and Local Administration, Economic
Development, Environment Affairs, Water Supply
and  Drainage and Tourism.
Chief Ministry and the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Engineering Services, Law and Order, Education, Local Government
 and Local Administration, Economic Development, Environment Affairs,
Water Supply and  Drainage and Tourism in the North Western Province
1st Floor,
North Western Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala.
.


<!-- page 2 -->

2 A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'08'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  30.08.2018
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC  OF  SRI LANKA.
Human Resource Development Authority (Amendment) Enactment of Nort West No. .........of 2018 of
North Western Provincial Council
AN ENACTMENT  TO  AMEND  THE  HUMAN  RESOURCE  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY
ENACTMENT No.1OF 1994 OF NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL.
Be it enacted by North Western Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
01. This Enactment may be cited as Human Resource Development Authority (amendment ) Enactment
of Wayamba No. …………of 2018 and will take effect from the date approved by the Governor.
02. The Sec.6 of Human Resource Development Authority Enactment No.1of 1994 (herein after referred
to as Principle Enactment )is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section given
below.
6.1 A board of Directors ,herein after referred to as Directors consisting of the following members
shall be appointed for the Authority.
a. A representative of the Chief Secretary
b. Secretary of chief  Ministry or one of his representatives.
c. Provincial Director of Education or one of his representatives
d. Commissioner of Provincial Co-operative Development
e. 03 members appointed by the Minister in Charge of subject.
2.The Minister in Charge of subject shall appoint a Director from among the directors as the
chairman of the Authority and he shall be the chief.
3.The board of Director with the concurrence of Minister in Charge of subject may appoint a
member among the members as an executive Director.
03. Sub Section 05 of Section 9 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substi-
tuting the Section given below.
(5)The chairman shall preside the meeting held for the Board of Directors and in case he is absent,
a temporary chairman shall be appointed.
04. Section 11 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section
given below.
11.The chairman ,Executive Director, and members of Board of Directors are entitled to receive
remuneration at a rate as determined by the Minister for discharging duty in the Authority.
05. Sub Section 01 of Section 12 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and
substituting the Section given below.
(I) Common seal of the institution shall be kept under the custody of the chairman.
Enforcement of
Short Title
Amendment of
Section 6 of
Enactment No. 1
of 1994
Amendment of
Sub Section 9(5)
of Principle
Enactment
Amendment of
Section 11 of
Principle
Enactment
Amendment of
Sub Section 12(I)
of Principle
Enactment

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'08'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  30.08.2018
06. Section 14 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section
given below.
14. General Manager of the Authority shall function in the capacity of Secretary .
07. Section 15 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section
given below.
15. (I)Chairman of the Authority shall be the chairman of Board of Directors and  he shall lead the
Authority in order to meet its objectives.
(2) Executive Director shall discharge the duties assigned by the Board of Directors and he shall
be responsible for the chairman and the Board of Directors in that regard.
08. Section 16 of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the Section
given below.
16(1) Board of Directors shall appoint a General Manager to implement powers ,functions and
provisions.
(2) There shall be a staff comprising  an Administrative Officer, Accountant and field officers in
order to get their support by the General Manager.
(3)   General Manager shall responsible for the chairman and the Board of Directors in respect of
supervision, control and administration of Authority’s functions.
(4) The chairman of the Authority will be the appointing Authority and the Board of Directors will
be the disciplinary Authority. Same as the Secretary to the Minister in Charge of subject will be
the Appealing Authority.
09. Sub Section 18 (2)(b) I. of Principle Enactment is hereby amended by repealing it and substituting
the Section given below.
18 (2)b I. Registration of all the institutions which have been established or will be established in
future for involving in the development of human resources, control of their functions so as to
suit for the requirement of the area, providing guidance ,financial assistance or any other support
and deciding time period at which institutions are operated.
II. Implementation of projects through which generate job opportunities within the province by
providing suitable services for government ,semi government and private institutions.
PART IV
Offences and Penalties
10.  Following Section is hereby inserted as the part IV of said Enactment.
27 (a) i. Any person, who makes a false statement under this statute or for the functions of this
statute or upon any report ,order or a term made or provide under this Enactment,
Amendment of
Section 14 of
Principle
Enactment
Amendment of
Section 15 of
Principle
Enactment
Amendment of
Sub Section 16
of Principle
Enactment
Appointing the
General Manager
Assistant Staff
Duty of General
Manager
Appointing
Authority,
Disciplinary
Authority,
Appealing
Authority
Amendment of
Sub Section 18
(2)b of Principle
Enactment
Sub Section 18
(2)b of Principle
Enactment
Insert part iv in
to Principle
Enactment
Offences

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 18'08'30
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA -  30.08.2018
ii. who evades or rejects to provide any information or a report required by this Enactment,
iii  who neglects the instructions or terms or guidance or orders of the chairman without reasonable
grounds,
iv. who disturbs or obstructs any person in implementing or executing the powers, duties and
functions assigned to him by this Enactment ,there under or an order made under that,
v. who violates any order or provision of this Enactment or made under that or /and willfully
evades/obstructs to act accordingly ,shall be a guilty of that offence.
27(b) If every person who violates provisions or orders of this Enactment is found to be a guilty
of that offence in a summary trial heard before a Magistrate ,he shall be punished with either
description for a term not exceeding 01 year or with a fine of Rs.50000/= or with both.
PART V
Definitions
11. Sections 27 and 28 of Principle Enactment are hereby amended by repealing it and substituting the
Section given below.
28.In this Enactment unless the context otherwise requires,
               “Minister” means, Minister in Charge of the subject
of North Western Provincial Council
“Chief Secretary” means, Chief Secretary of North Western Province,
               “Secretary” means, Secretary of  the Minister in Charge of
                 the  subject,
“Director of Provincial Education” means, Director of North Western Provincial Council,
“Commissioner of Co-operative Development “  means, Commissioner of Co-operative
Development of North Western Province,
“Chairman” means, the Chairman of Human Resources Development Authority
“Executive Director” means, Executive Director of Human Resources Development Authority,
“General Manager” means, the General Manager of Human Resources Development Authority,
“Provincial Council” means, North Western Provincial Council
“Province” means, North Western Province of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
29.If there is an inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil, Sinhala text will prevail.
09-366
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
Repeal Sections
 27 and 28 and
 insert part V
Inconsistency
Punishments
Definitions